ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u1	Madam Secretary, I will put together my three questions. The first, most logical question is about the status of the CRM. The deadline for the submission of bids for the first CRM auction expired on 30 September at 5 p.m. Eneco announced that it would participate in its planned gas plant in Manage at the end of the day, as the obligation to capture 30% of the CO2 in the permit was removed. Specifically for Manage, why was that permit last minute modified? Of course, that adjustment is convenient for you. Of course, you do not grant that licence, but do you perhaps have more information? There was a procedure in the press at the Council of State. Was your cabinet involved in this somehow? That happened two days before the deadline. Secondly, as regards the follow-up steps under this procedure before Elia enters into the effective CRM auction and enter into the contracts with its winners, will there be a recalibration of the volumes not taken into account? How much volume will final auction be made? When will the auction itself take place? Is there still an evaluation between the auction and the conclusion of the contracts of the cost of each project and the total cost of the CRM? When will we know which projects have been selected, how much capacity will be added and how much will cost us in total? Thirdly, preparations for the T-4 auction started next year. A reference scenario should be chosen for this purpose. Just like your predecessor, you go against the advice of the CREG and choose to take into account an additional unavailability of two French nuclear reactors that significantly blow up the volume to be auctioned. In the Adequacyand Flexibility Study of Elia in June 2021, they even took four French nuclear reactors into account in their safe scenario. Now there's two of them. It all seems pretty random to me anyway. Why is this so determined? In my view, you also suggested that we discuss this in greater depth here in the committee at some point. Of course we'd love to. That is my first question on the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u2	Mr Warmoes, you have already used three minutes for your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u3	Mr President, my second question is more informative. It concerns the fines provided for in the CRM scheme if the bidders do not meet the conditions, the so-called penalties. What exactly happens if a producer engages in a CRM auction to provide a certain capacity, and is ultimately not available on time? What happens if this producer is not authorised to build the gas plant? If he's taking the risk of participating in the auction, how much is the fine? Is this higher than the envisaged CRM grant, or is it a reduction in the grant? Either the subsidy is withdrawn completely, or it is a reduction with a fine on top of it. You have communicated very extensively that the gas plants must be climate neutral by 2050. This is the European objective that is legally enshrined in the European climate law. However, in your opinion, producers should not carry out an investigation into the feasibility of reducing their emissions until the end of 2026, i.e. more than a year after the plants are operational. Only by the end of 2027, two years after they entered into force, would we know how to reduce their emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u4	You're eating away time from your third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u5	Mr President, I have three questions. So I'm entitled to three times two minutes. That's six minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u6	You have a minute and a half left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u7	Mr President, I am almost done. I ask all my questions in one go, so I'm entitled to the number of questions times two minutes. Why should producers not examine the possibilities for reducing their emissions until the gas plants have already been designed, built and put into service? Why not do this much earlier and not impose intermediate binding targets for the gas plants, rather than a far-reaching target by 2050? In what way will these weak conditions contribute to reducing CO2 emissions from gas plants? That is what I am done with, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u8	Thank you for respecting the general budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u9	Madam Minister, on Friday 27 August 2021 we learned with satisfaction that the European Commission had found that the Belgian CRM did not contravene EU state aid rules. I am pleased that this morning's debate is being held. I'd like to ask you a few questions. The Commission considers that, in addition to complying with state aid rules, our country is planning to introduce several sustainability requirements for new fossil fuel facilities, which are to be used in the MRC. These requirements are not made mandatory by the European rules I have just mentioned. Could you give us more information on the nature of these requirements? Would we be able to know to what extent these are consistent with the objectives of the European Green Deal? In November 2021, a full report of the projects selected at the end of the first CRM auction will be submitted to the government. Could we have information on the time frame within which this information will be available to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u10	Madam Minister, as far as the CRM is concerned, several stages have now been completed. On 15 June 2021, the submission period for the dossiers was completed. This had not yet been completed, but the Consultation Committee would then consider the question of transparency in order to assess what information can be released when. After all, you also stressed that you wanted to avoid over-procurement for the auction volume. As everyone knows, last Thursday at 5 p.m., the deadline for submitting bids for the CRM auction expired. The auction clearing will be completed this month, but I already have a few questions. To what extent was the figure for the auction volume adjusted? How and when can you provide transparency on the results of the pre-qualification procedure, which thus ensures in the event of compliance with the conditions that the CRM candidate can offer an eligible volume at the auction and receive a capacity contract if the clearing algorithm selects it? How do you assess the difficulties with regard to regional licences which have been bumped by the various prospective investors in the past period? To what extent did that affect the final bids? What was the result of submitting the bids, the deadline of which was last week? Was the expected capacity achieved? Do you have an idea of the final cost of the CRM?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, initially there were more than enough candidates to meet the needs, which you have reduced, by 2.3 gigawatts of new capacity. I will not dwell on the reasons for this decrease. We disagree. But simply, the facts are there. Engie Electrabel had prepared projects for large gas power plants in Vilvorde, Les Awires and Amercoeur. Luminus had projects in Seraing and Wondergem, Eneco in Manage, RWE in Dilsen-Stokkem and the chemical company Tessenderlo in the municipality of the same name. Together, these projects were much more than 2.3 gigawatts. However, uncertainties have already arisen in the run-down of this story before the pre-qualifications that ended last Thursday, as was recalled. These various companies have encountered all kinds of licensing problems. For example, the deputation of the Flemish Brabant province refused an environmental permit for the Electrabel project in Vilvorde. RWE also did not receive an appeal authorisation from the Flemish Environment Minister Zuhal Demir. Projects that received a permit had to deal with citizen protests. Action groups such as Tegengas are threatening recourse, which means that at present no one is definitively sure of a valid permit. The citizens' collective sent a communiqué at the end of September in which it warned that it would bring an appeal to the Council of State against Luminus's licence in Seraing and that of Eneco in Manage. In Flanders, Minister Demir holds the keys and we are still waiting for a judgment on Tessenderlo, Wondergem and Vilvorde. Minister, are there finally enough candidates participating in the auction that can guarantee the capacity we need? Have there been any consultations with, among other things, the Regions to discuss the issue of permits? For if we have enough candidates for the auction, they must of course find, at the end and at the right time, the place in accordance with the urban and environmental regulations to build their gas plant. How do you want to deal with all these problems in concrete terms so that, in the end, there are gas-fired plants due to competition in our territory? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u12	Mrs Marghem, it is suggested that you immediately attach the question you introduced concerning the appointment of consultants in the monitoring. The minister suggested that if you put it down now, she could include it in her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u13	Mr. Chairman, I do not find this to be a question related to CRM. I'll do it. But very honestly, I don't see the connection. Minister, you have appointed Johan Albrecht and Haulogy as part of the monitoring work. According to the government agreement, you have been required to conduct a monitoring since the beginning of your mandate - you are only doing so, so you have been very late -, which you must then submit to the government. We know, thanks to various information, that this work is at work and that you would have designated Johan Albrecht and the Haulogy company as part of the development of this monitoring. A press article dated 2018 points to the fact that one of the two consultants you have chosen, namely Mr.Albrecht, was wrong in his evaluations because there is a zero in them. That is the first problem. Secondly, it has been shown that these evaluations are largely in favour of your policy, and therefore not necessarily in accordance with the reality that we will find out when it is too late, that is, when we see exactly what the CRM costs. Have these designations been made on the basis of a comparison between several potential players in the market? What exactly are the mission orders you gave them? Since this is public money and it is important that this public money be used properly, can you give us your mission letter to each of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u14	Are there any other Members who would like to speak in connection with the topical and urgent debate? You can do that now or with the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u15	Mr President, I will speak during the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u16	Madam Secretary, most of the questions have been asked. We all look forward to the auction with curiosity. Usually an auction is about art, but this time it's about something else, which is essential to secure our security of supply. Another important point is its cost. That is, of course, a different discussion, as is the way in which it ends up with the citizen. She usually ends up on the invoice through Elijah, but you'll compensate. Of course, we care about that theme. After all, the cost will end up with someone, which is certainly a great concern for our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u17	Mr President, once again I congratulate you on your appointment to the committee. Colleagues, I have a grouped answer to all the questions. I have structured the answer according to the various mentioned topics. I shall begin with the European decision. On 23 July 2021, I had a meeting with the European Commission, explaining a number of technical elements relating, inter alia, to the application of the electricity regulations and the ACER methodologies that follow from them. The European Commission then took a positive decision on 27 August 2021. This decision was published shortly thereafter on the DG Competition website. We are currently waiting for the translation into the 27 languages of the European Union for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Commission's decision does not contain any conditions. This means that we should not make any additional adjustments to the design of the mechanism or to the decision we made on the volume and prices of the first auction. Next, for the questions about the pre-qualification and auction in 2021, I cannot emphasise sufficiently how sensitive the information about the bids is. An absolutely confidential treatment is needed to ensure that there is perfect competition during the auction. The Follow-up Committee therefore agreed not to exchange information on the pre-qualification. Each has its role in the development and the end of the auction. Volumes were recorded in April, based on the best available information at that time and as a final piece of a legally established process with a lot of checks-and-balances, with public consultations and proposals and advice from the administration and the regulator. After that it is not appropriate, let alone possible, to adjust the volume. If an auction is to be destroyed, the auction conditions and the route must be adjusted. I want to avoid that at all times. Moreover, I have not received any question from the European Commission in this direction. However, there is still an adjustment in the auction for the ineligible volumes. We have discussed this in detail here in this committee during several meetings. I am not intervening in this adjustment. It is carried out by Elia under the control of the auditor and the regulator, the CREG. After the pre-qualification, participants were able to submit an offer until 30 September 5 p.m. This phase is now followed by the Auction clearing and the verification of the results by the CREG. The results will then be published by 31 October at the latest, including the adjustments made to the ineligible volumes. All these results will be described in detail in the October auction report. The full report of the projects selected at the end of the first CRM auction will not be published in November, but by the end of October by Elia on its site. The November report will assess, taking into account, among other things, the security of supply and the impact on prices. An estimate of the cost of CRM was already presented and discussed in this committee in the spring. I asked my administration to update this estimate on the basis of the auction results. That update will be part of the November evaluation report. Contrary to what Mrs Marghem mentioned, we are therefore not working with Haulogy on this cost update, except for any one-time support for the use of the model developed at the beginning of the year by the consultant. Otherwise, my administration will calculate it this time on its own. I would also like to point out that Mrs Marghem herself came to this Parliament with an estimate of the cost of the CRM which was made by the same person, Mr Vercruyssen. If the costs at the beginning of this year were lower than the initial March 2018 calculation, it is thanks to the design choice we made, and my volume decision and parameters in accordance with the parliamentary resolution. My administration commissioned a study led by Prof. Lieven Vandevelde from the UGent to support the selection of prizes in the November evaluation report. The SPF followed the appropriate procedure, i.e. it verified that it would be able to carry out this task on the basis of the modelling expertise and the implementation period. As far as permits are concerned, everyone has to take responsibility. I've done my part of the job. I also assume that this will happen in the other entities of the country, in the interests of the country's investment security. I am not involved in these decisions and these procedures. Some projects seem to have sufficient confidence in their licence to participate in the CRM, despite the fines they risk if they were not available. This number of projects is more than necessary for healthy competition at auction. However, the projects selected will be closely monitored. An extensive pre-delivery check by Elia and the CREG allows rapid intervention if a delay is detected or if it would still fail with a permit. You can read all this in the operating rules available on Elia's website. You will read in those operating rules that fines can be imposed. The level of such fines is the result of extensive discussions between Elijah, the market players and the CREG. A balance has been struck between a sufficiently high incentive and a non-excessive increase in risk, which would unnecessarily increase the bid price. However, I cannot imagine that the CREG would have approved inadequate fines. The risk of a provider is not to be underestimated. There is a fine of EUR 10,000 per megawatt, which can be imposed up to three times. The contract can be shortened or cancelled, allowing the provider to see the capacity fee go up in smoke, while the developer has already spent several millions on development, the permit application, the contracts with the contractors, and possibly all the construction. The aim of the CRM is to ensure security of supply by 2025. Participation in the CRM is not without obligation. On the contrary, we are counting on it. I now come to the issue of climate. I have indeed asked for additional commitments in the context of the energy transition to the new units that are aiming at a 15-year contract. If these units are fueled by fossil fuels, they must recognise that obtaining a capacity contract does not exempt them from current and future EU and/or Belgian legislation and objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, they recognize that obtaining a capacity contract commits them to contributing to policy preparation to achieve these objectives. To this end, they shall attach a written declaration in which they undertake to: - to study the technical and economic feasibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 31 December 2026; - to draw up, by 31 December 2027, an emission reduction plan indicating how they will contribute to the transition to climate neutrality with intermediate targets for the years 2035 and 2045; - to achieve zero or negative emissions by 2050 at the latest. This statement must be attached to the pre-qualification file. Its presence will be verified by the Network Manager. Compliance with the commitments set out in the above point must be demonstrated with DG Energy. I have already stressed in committee that the sanctions provided for in the Electricity Act apply here. Mr Warmoes, you ask why this timeline was used. We have gone beyond what is imposed on us at European level. The Electricity Regulation lays down conditions regarding CO2 emissions from capacities within the CRM. We are, of course, applying them in full, and yet additional reduction targets have been required for the new plants, because we assume that the design process of the new plants has already been forward-looking, given their lifetime and the climate objectives that are well known in the meantime. I wanted to make it clear to every developer that I expect that future prospects and that no one, when we are on the road, will have to say that the contract was promised in 2021 at the time when the new reinforced targets had not yet entered into force. However, I do not want to organise discrimination between existing and new gas plants. The technical possibilities should be available and feasible. That is why I have provided for a certain degree of flexibility in which producers themselves draw up a route and define their solutions within the framework laid down. Moreover, I hope I do not need to remind anyone that the gas plants are subject to the ETS. In the European cap-and-trade system there is an absolute ceiling and that ceiling will fall. Moreover, the energy transition will make them less and less necessary. The further development of renewable energy will reduce the use of gas plants over time: the number of hours of rotation will decrease, thus reducing their emissions in any case. I'm going into the auction in 2022. I have based my decision on the advice of my administration, which means that the CREG proposal is fully followed, except as regards the availability of the French nuclear park. I would remind you that my administration is responsible for security of supply, not the CREG. My administration had good reason to recommend taking into account the extra unavailability of two nuclear units of the French park. Firstly, for five years the availability of the French nuclear park during the winter periods has been lower than what was predicted and there are many indications that this will continue in the coming years. Secondly, France itself warns of the assumptions of the MAF 2020 study, which served as the basis for the choice of the scenario, and indicates itself an underestimate of the unavailability of French nuclear energy in that study. The MAF 2020 is still a non-binding initiative of the European TSOs and is by no means the European Resource Adequacy Assessment provided for in the European Regulation. This will not be fully developed until 2023 and Belgium will be bound by the results of the ERAA which will then be published in the national Ademucy Assessments, just like France. Mr Leysen, you added another question about the price. We must, of course, await the outcome of the auction. There will also be a topical debate later on on about prices themselves, which will deal more closely with the energy standard and the like.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u18	Then we shall come back to that later. Who wants to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer to our questions. I note that you say that the volume is not adjusted, except for the ineligible capacity. You have not answered the question whether the licence of the Manage plant has been modified, but I assume your answer would have just sounded that you are not responsible for that. However, that was a remarkable case. I would particularly like to respond to what you say about CO2 emissions. You repeated what I said in my question. You are talking about carrying out a feasibility study by 31 December 2026 and analysing how they will contribute to the zero emissions target in 2050. These are great demands, but why don't you make them from the start? You have complete confidence in the producers, but we are not convinced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u20	Mr. Warmoes, you have 45 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u21	Minister, we must put firm conditions in place if we really want to achieve a reduction in emissions. If you have any documents about French nuclear capabilities, we are interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll read the report again to make sure I'm full of your words and I'm sure I've understood everything. I stress the need to inform Parliament as soon as possible. You have pointed out the responsibility of the federated entities that will be associated with the smooth running of the entire process. In a way, do you not consider that the CRM will be hostage to the Regions which, depending on the permit they will grant or not, will be able to decide on the proper outcome of this CRM and therefore on the possibility of exiting nuclear power? Will it not ultimately be the Regions that will decide whether Belgium will be able to meet its nuclear-exit commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u23	Madam Minister, we will of course not soon be able to agree on this issue. You say that discretion is required in this process, and I understand that, of course. However, it is important that Parliament is kept regularly informed. You say that you have asked to update the estimate of the cost of the CRM in relation to the final auctions and that we can expect those results in November. I certainly look forward to that, but whether we will be happy about it is another question. After all, I remain concerned about the cost of CRM. There was talk of technology-neutral, but we all know that in practice it will be gas plants, which would basically take 15 years to be profitable. You say that the number of hours of rotation will decrease over the years and that the CO2 story is also linked to ETS and so on. However, I find it strange to move from CO2 neutrality to CO2 emission plants. We await the further publication of Elijah and the final estimate of the cost, which you are currently working on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u24	Minister, you have given some answers, but preferably not the questions I have asked. I agree with my colleagues that the fact that your plan is implemented in practice will ultimately depend on the good will of the regions. Indeed, in everything you say, whether it is about CO2 or the concrete installation of gas power plants in our territory in the Regions, you never talk about a plan B. You are a priori certain, as since the beginning of your mandate, that all this will be done without problems, and will lead, in the medium to long term, to a significant reduction in CO2. Unfortunately, we do not believe that, in any case, you do not convince on this matter. With regard to the CRM price, I would remind you that, even if you want to put a pen on your hat saying that you have changed the design, and that necessarily the cost assessment has been different, Mr Vercruysse nevertheless indicated in his table and in his study all the pitfalls and all the exceptions to the principle of this minimum cost of 230 million. This has been demonstrated. This raises concerns that the cost will be very high. In addition, this cost will be borne by the State budget. It will be added to the federal share in the bill, and all will be converted into excise duty. I would like to know – and this is our president's question – how much this will cost on the state budget. I hear some evaluations. I am pleased that, with respect to the updating of the award, your administration has taken over the toothbrush and has re-brought it back on track, rather than appointing external consultants. Indeed, it is the role of our administration to carry out certain analyses, as you said. I will have the opportunity to come back to you with other subsidiary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have heard little news, this is in line with what has been announced in recent weeks and months. You have 'confirmed' yourself well, you say: if there are sufficient suppliers then we cannot legally return and then the nuclear power stations cannot be renewed. That's pretty much the summary of the slope you're walking today. There may be serious consequences. A few references have been made to the study of Haulology, in which you have written a broad disclaimer according to which the assumptions are entirely for them, which shows that you do not fully agree with the conclusions. In addition, you have changed a number of parameters, such as the investment thresholds. There are also assumptions of zero bids from a number of players, which the market itself does not believe in. In that respect it will wait and see what exactly comes out of the bus, but that you have entered a ravine that you cannot go back out of, is of course so. You'll get what you want, you'll get what you joined this government for. However, I do not know whether you will have what the citizens would have liked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u26	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your explanation. We have never been great fans of the CRM, but in the meantime we are convinced that it is absolutely necessary, for two reasons. Firstly, there is the transition to the production market, where we focus on renewable energy. Secondly, it is good for security of supply and electrification of our society. If we are going to bet more on electric cars, water pumps and so on, there must be electricity for that. Period. The Members who try to re-establish the debate to the question of whether it should be the CRM or two nuclear power stations are not serious. All the studies we have discussed here show that we are absolutely not getting there, not even with those two nuclear power plants. When I hear the colleague of the Flemish Interest worry about the cost of the CRM, I really wonder what the alternative is. Even if you keep those two nuclear power stations open, the lights will still go out if you have no alternative. I have not heard you propose any alternative, I have just heard you express some concerns and a bit of a stir over those two nuclear power stations. We won't be helping people with that. I have two final comments. Firstly, the regions must indeed shoulder their responsibilities, that is very clear. I am also convinced that common sense will eventually prevail. Secondly, as far as emissions from these gas plants are concerned, that is a difficult but necessary detour that we must make. However, I believe that our next task is to focus on strong power stations whose emissions are controlled. Last summer I myself visited the gas plant in Ghent, where I was told that we are investigating how to reduce emissions considerably. That research is in its infancy, but I am really convinced that there are possibilities in this area. It will be up to our politicians to follow that path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u27	Thank you for all your relevant and interesting contributions. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u28	Minister Dermagne, Minister Verlinden and you have set up a task force for a safe and responsible framework for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. In addition to ensuring that decommissioning takes place in a safe and socially responsible manner, the task force also wants to investigate to what extent decommissioning can also create new jobs. The aim is to make decommissioning and knowledge an economic success story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u29	"You have decided to set up a Task Force for the dismantling of nuclear power plants. Has this group ever met? And if so, how many times have they met? What are their main lines on which they intend to work and how soon will they deliver their conclusions?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u30	Mr President, I apologise, but I am not in favour of this formula. If people follow, I want them to know what we're asking. That is why I would ask that the time be set at four minutes, because I have two questions. After all, I thought that the Rules of Procedure provided for two minutes per question. That's what I've lost for 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u31	We have divided your second question into another group. Sub-groups have now been created, so you can start with your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u32	Mr President, do I now ask my question about the social plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u33	I've asked the Minister to put her answers together in subgroups. For the sake of convenience, I am following the guidance for the Minister, who has prepared her answers. We start with questions about the social plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, five of the seven nuclear power stations will be shut down in the next four years anyway. That's the plan. There is another discussion on the other two, which might remain open, as stated in the coalition agreement. These plants employ 2,000 workers and the subcontractors employ 5,000 workers. I have already questioned you about the social aspects of this transition. You rightly referred at that time to the responsibility of the operators. But it is the case that Article 10 of the core step law stipulates, I quote: 'When a nuclear power station is closed, a social support plan for the workers concerned must be drawn up in consultation with the social partners.' It is not just about maintaining employment, which is, moreover, guaranteed by an agreement of 1962 for workers and subcontractors, but also about maintaining working conditions and wage conditions. The employees of the energy sector are members of the Joint Committee 326 and have a very good statute. They rightly fear that they will end up in a different statute, with poorer working and wage conditions. The preparation of the social plan is primarily a responsibility of Minister Dermagne, but you are, of course, Minister of Energy. What's the status of that social plan? By when will there be? Are the unions involved in this? What specific arrangements have been made with operators? How do they stand in this discussion? What solutions will you put forward for the employees? Do we guarantee employment for all employees, both from Engie Electrabel himself and from subcontractors, and the maintenance of the statutes and conditions of Joint Committee 326? Is there a budget for that social plan? How do you see its financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, drawing up a social plan is the responsibility of the operator and Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne is competent to follow it up. So I am not going to speak in turn and suggest that you ask those specific questions to him. You pointed out the competence of the Regions, and you are right to do so. You are equally right that I, as Energy Minister, can also play a role, just like Mr Dermagne and Mrs Verlinden. After all, we have important nuclear institutions under our control, all of which are somehow involved in the different facets of the nuclear exit. The task force therefore has exactly the aim of aligning this approach and, where possible, acting together. It consists of the three ministers responsible, namely the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dermagne, Mrs Verlinden and myself. The task force meets periodically. Behind the scenes our three teams work permanently and intensively together. This task force has already given its first concrete results. This afternoon, a bill to clarify the role of ONDRAF in determining the rules to which waste must comply will be discussed in this committee. At the same time, even if this will take place a few weeks later on a planning issue, the Committee of the Interior will discuss a bill to define the role of AFCN in this regard. It is important that these roles be clarified because large waste streams will have to be addressed when dismantling. An effective acceptance system with a sound legal basis will be necessary. All this has been coordinated within the Task Force. Three nuclear projects for a total of EUR 60 million have also been included in the Relance Plan. These are the investments in the medical isotopes, the SMART project of the IRE and the NURA project of the SCK. These investments will help ensure that Belgium remains a precursor to medical isotopes and thus support employment in this sector. We also want to be a pioneer when it comes to decommissioning. Mr Dermagne and I, together with Mr Dermine, have brought together a number of industry experts to identify a structuring activity on the decommissioning of nuclear power plants which enables employment in the sector to be maintained or even increased, to anchor the decommissioning activities of nuclear power plants in Belgium and to develop Belgian knowledge on specific decommissioning techniques so that they can be exported later. It is about activities that are of a high-tech nature and for which we already have expertise within the domain today in Belgium, at Belgian companies. Their promising conclusions were presented on 20 September 2021 and are published on the website of the FPS Economy. The further development of this activity will also provide employment in Belgium. Where necessary or useful, we will contact the Regions, so that they can also participate in an economic success story in terms of decommissioning within their competences. Here, too, the resources of the relance plan designed to develop innovative decommissioning techniques which, in collaboration with the SCK, are developed, inter alia, on the basis of its knowledge and experience with the BR3 reactor, can eventually lead to new activities in Belgium. Meanwhile, the Task Force will continue to work to make the closure of nuclear power plants a success. It is in this spirit that we are examining the question of how nuclear institutions can be used for training in order to prepare the personnel currently employed, but also the Belgian non-nuclear industry, for nuclear dismantling. I am thinking here of radiation protection training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u36	Madam Minister, I think it is important that this task force be established and that it is a good thing that we work together. We look forward to its further operation. I am also pleased to hear that there are three projects and that 60% of them are going to the relay plan to make sure that Belgium remains a frontrunner or that it becomes even more isotopes-related. I believe that this is an objective that we can all support. A third concern concerns employment and the expertise we build up with it. We must certainly keep up with them, in such a way that we can continue to export and deploy them. This will undoubtedly benefit employment. Finally, I share your view that there is also a responsibility for the regions. There will certainly also be a need for consultation with the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. This kind of task force is essential in such a vast and complex case. Belgium's position as a world leader in nuclear energy knowledge in its industrial and medical applications is very important. This high degree of international visibility must be maintained for our country. I am pleased to hear that this is one of the concerns of the Task Force. What worries me is the volume of employment and the transition from exploitation and production to dismantling. Article 10 of the 2003 Act provides for a social plan to be drawn up with the operator and the social partners. I assume that the task force will be able to deal with this kind of phenomenal impact since all employees who are on the sites will not be re-employable in the dismantling activity. I will come back to this issue later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u38	Madam Minister, I am very disappointed because you are shifting everything away from the operator who, of course, has a responsibility to you and to your colleague, Mr Dermagne. I expected guarantees from you about the statute, working conditions, the employment of workers and subcontractors. I feel very little empathy about this with you. It is not just highly qualified staff, especially subcontractors. You negotiated that key step, so take responsibility. I understand that you cannot give details, but I have heard no commitment from you to reassure those people. If you think these workers will be led like sheep to the slaughterhouse, you are mistaken. You play with fire or uranium. I hope that this will become more concrete soon, and the workers expect it. There is already a great deal of concern and it will not get any better in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u39	Mr President, I have heard something different from Mr Warmoes. I have heard that a task force has been set up to investigate how a number of cases can be dealt with. One of these is to investigate how employees with specific knowledge can be involved in decommissioning. We know from the hearings that not all employees will be able to continue to do the same job, but I hear that you, together with your fellow minister, are looking for a way to work out a social plan for those workers. So you do feel involved in thinking about the future of these workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u40	Mr President, I think it is important that we discuss this on the substance. The formula of question and answer may not be the ideal way to do this. This will be discussed in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety. I would like to invite everyone to look into this dossier, together with the three ministers concerned. There will then be more time to do so than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u41	I agree with what Mr Wollants said. I hope that many of us will follow the nuclear safety sub-committee. It is an extremely difficult and interesting subject that we must all wear together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u42	. It may not be the ideal formula here, but it is a very important theme, which is linked to what is to happen. As so often, I agree with Mr Wollants on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u43	You've noticed that there's a lot of expertise. When one discusses a social plan, one always looks at it from the negative side. The expertise and the workforce that are present will also be needed in the future. This also requires a lot of mobility and perhaps even retraining. That also means there are opportunities. New medical developments, but perhaps the day after tomorrow in nuclear technology or in other areas, for example in the field of energy, may make it interesting. I agree that we need to think carefully about how to valorise capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u44	The government agreement provides that the government will adopt national policies for the long-term management of high-activity and/or long-lived waste. This is done through a participatory process to be defined that goes beyond a mere citizen survey (e.g. a civil panel). Once these National Policies have been adopted, the government will take legislative initiatives to define the modalities for reversibility of decision-making, which will allow, for example, for a valid alternative, to return to the decisions on long-term management as well as the modalities for the recovery of waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u45	Mr. President, Minister, my question concerns national policy measures related to the treatment of high-level radioactive waste, governance and concrete. On governance, Madam Minister, a year ago, I presented you with a complete file containing the latest state of the public consultation procedure launched by ONDRAF in 2020. What's your status on this file? What do you intend to do about it and within what time frame? What measures are already in place for the storage of radioactive waste? What measures are you planning during the coming dismantling to store the waste? Is there already an action plan in this area? Is this an operator's plan alone or in consultation with other Task Force stakeholders? You have already responded in part. Does this group have a monitoring mission and, if so, for how long? My questions were broader and, Mr. Chairman, you grouped them in your own way. So they partly overlap the debate that has just ended. I apologize and ask the minister to answer any questions she has not yet answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u46	Mr President, the royal decision that has been prepared will record the part of national policies relating to the long-term management of high-radioactive and/or long-lived waste and will clarify the step-by-step process to define further policy measures. The royal decree as foreseen at the beginning of the reign was adapted at the request of Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne and myself. The new version was then submitted to the FANC for its opinion. The FANC submitted its opinion on 20 May 2021. You can find it on his website. The decision was adapted to the FANC's comments and re-checked legally. The file to bring the royal decision to the Council of Ministers is in preparation. As you point out, consultations were already held in 2020. However, the participatory process I want to carry out is broader than mere consultation. Each subsequent stage in the process should take into account informed opinions of civil society obtained following a thorough process of reflection with representative panels of experts and citizens. In this process, the participatory process differs from environmental impact reports. The latter discuss the environmental impact of a plan or project and citizens and civil society organisations can respond to it. A participatory process is about dialogue, it is an exchange between experts and the population through representative panels. It is only in this way that we can reach a favourable decision on this important issue. In its opinion, the FANC also stated that it was in favour of a step-by-step approach with a participatory decision-making process involving all stakeholders, including civil society and the population, so that decisions can be made with full knowledge of the facts. The management of radioactive waste is a socially particularly relevant issue. For years little or at least insufficient consultation with the population has been taking place. I believe that this is an old political culture. The public expects participation, including in the management of nuclear waste. I will make this possible through a broad and structurally participatory process. As you know, the national policy for Category A waste, short-lived low-level waste, is surface storage. The authorisation procedure for this storage facility is still in progress. You also asked me a question about the operation of the Task Force on the closure of nuclear power plants. One of the projects we dealt with in this task force was the improvement of the system for accepting radioactive waste, including waste from dismantling. This bill will be dealt with this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I find it rather vague. I have not received an answer to the question when you will come to the Council of Ministers with the royal decision. It is currently being prepared and adapted to the FANC's opinion, but can we expect that this year? I share your opinion on participation. There's a difference with an E.R. With participation, we want to engage in dialogue with stakeholders and anyone interested in it, and we must rightly seek support for it. The salvage will have an impact for many years and generations, so a support platform is important. You want to achieve a broad and structurally participatory process, but how it will be implemented in practice, I have not yet received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u48	I thank the minister for her answer, but I am a little surprised. I'm not surprised what you want to do, but how long it will take. Remember that in 2011, the previous government, not the one in which I participated, but the one before, led by Mr.Di Rupo, had already decided not to decide, and had carried out a consultation that he had left out, without drawing any conclusions in terms of progress in national policy. This has awakened the Europe that has enjoined us to move forward. Under the leadership of a member of your political group, which is now co-chair of Ecolo, we have re-opened a public consultation. Some did not like it, and finally, a resolution did not get a majority in Parliament so that this on-line public consultation itself delayed for a more defunct period. The problem was containment. Let us remember that, Mr. Cogolati! Today, I fully agree with what you are telling us. I would like to see more consultations and panels of citizens. This will allow you to talk about your favorite topics and report them in the press. But basically, at some point, we must succeed. The question you did not answer was when we were going to move forward with this national waste policy and finally take a position on the treatment of high-level radioactive waste to know what we are doing with it. Indeed, for now, even if we work step by step, there are intermediate steps in the steps. Finally, we lose the thread and we still do not know what the government's position will be on the principle of deep geological burial of high-level radioactive waste. That is the central point, and I would like to have an answer from you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u49	Madam Secretary, do you have a clearer answer to give?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u50	As far as timing is concerned, I have said that the file is being prepared and that I am taking it to the government. I have already shown in other files that it is not in my nature to wait and see. I will not cling to a specific timing, but it will not be for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u51	I'll ask the minister again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u52	Are there any other committee members who would like to respond? Of course, it is not mandatory to respond after each question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u53	It's not mandatory, but I'm here now anyway. The big problem is that it has not been decided for decades and that it needs to be decided. Belgium is today the last country with a solid nuclear park that has not yet decided. If it is said that it will not be for next year, then I fear that we will follow the same path as all previous governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u54	I meant I don't want to wait until next year to get on with this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u55	That's better. I believe that we really have a responsibility to make decisions, and this should not be postponed. That's my main message. Apart from the party political assessments, I do not think that any party would benefit from the postponement of that debate for us. If we keep moving it to another government, we will never get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u56	Your answer was clear, you do not want to postpone it until next year. If there are no other speeches, I shall conclude this debate now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u57	"Madam the Minister, in total, what is the amount of financial funds allocated in Belgium to the search for the feasibility and safety of the long-term storage of radioactive waste, as in particular for the construction and operation of the HADES underground laboratory, since the very beginning of these research programmes? Have these research & development costs been fully covered by radioactive waste producers since the beginning? If not, what part has been covered by the public authorities since the start of the research (in particular with regard to the participation of the SCK-CEN)? How much has the Belgian State already spent in the search for a radioactive waste storage solution, particularly since the construction of the HADES underground laboratory? In the future, what is still the budget for the search for such a long-term radioactive waste storage solution for the coming years? Have other options for the long-term storage of radioactive waste been tested as extensively as for the HADES underground laboratory in the case of geological storage? If so, where are these alternative experiences? And what does the search for these alternative options represent in terms of financial cost, compared to the cost of research on geological storage in galleries?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u58	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, since the launch of the research programmes in 1974, approximately EUR 500 million (value 2021) has been devoted to research on the feasibility of the geological storage of high-level radioactive waste and/or long-lived radioactive waste. The amount of construction of the HADES underground research laboratory is approximately €42 million (2007 value), plus about €6 million in 2021 for the renovation of the access well. The costs of research and development are fully covered by the producers of radioactive waste, in accordance with the provisions of Article 179(2), 11° of the Law of 8 August 1980 on budgetary proposals, which provides that "all the costs related to the activities of the Agency, including the costs of its research, development and demonstration operations, and the long-term costs but with the exception of those related to the activities of the first two years in the field of inventory, shall be borne by the companies, bodies, institutions or persons for whom the Agency performs its services. These costs, assessed at cost, will be distributed among and proportionate to the beneficiaries of the benefits, on the basis of objective criteria." Some of the costs are borne by the Federal State in its capacity as financial responsibility for nuclear liabilities BP1 and BP2, SCK-CEN and IRE. The SCK CEN also contributes as a producer of radioactive waste. In total, the share covered by the Belgian State as financial liability for nuclear liabilities amounts to around EUR 100 million. In the absence of a national policy for the long-term management of high activity and/or long-lived waste, the ONDRAF estimate is based on a baseline scenario based on assumptions such as, for example, high rock, depth or storage site. Based on this scenario, ONDRAF estimates that the research and development budget for geological storage amounts to EUR 1.25 billion for the years 2021 to 2050. As part of a technological watch, the Agency is studying possible variants of geological storage in the gallery, in particular geological storage in deep drilling or shared storage. It does not exclude the possibility of optimising geological storage through, for example, the application of advanced nuclear technologies such as separation and transmutation of minor actinides. These alternatives have been examined in the context of the AC 2020. This was mentioned in Mrs Marghem's reply to the previous question. These variants have a lower degree of maturity and represent a lower budget than those for research and experiments related to geological storage in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you. These figures are high. I can even talk – you must not be afraid of words – about astronomical costs. I think it's important. Somewhere, it also relativizes the debate we have just had. You have just been told: "Een jaar om te beslissen. Er moet absolut een beslissing komen." You've been under pressure when you've been a minister of energy for a year. If I can hear you correctly, the research started in 1974. 47 years ago. That is 47 years of research for a solution for highly radioactive waste, 500 million euros already spent, 1.25 billion euros still to spend until 2050 to find a solution that we still do not have, which is still not operational, which still has nothing concrete. The truth is, there are still no fully operational geological storage sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u60	That's not the point, Mr. Cogolati! It's governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u61	I keep the floor, Mrs Marghem. That's my line. I don't think you have the right to intervene in this debate and cut me off! I'd just like to put the clocks back on time. The truth is, this research has been going on for 47 years and it has an astronomical cost. More than $1.25 billion. More specifically 1.75 billion euros in research for a solution. This is much more than all the research and development invested in wind and photovoltaic solutions. I'd like to conclude on this, and put the church back in the middle of the village. The truth is that today, we should first invest this money in green future solutions for affordable energy for people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u62	Mr Cogolati, if you speak to a colleague, it is normal for him to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u63	I was responding to a speech cut.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u64	I acknowledge that I have cut you off, and I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u65	Let's not argue. Is there a reply to the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u66	I'd like to say two things to Mr. Cogolati. I can see the kind of shortcut you take to do your little demonstration. In this case, it is a governance problem. Belgium must adopt a national policy. As far as concrete and research are concerned, the plants have been there for more than forty years, you were not born. This is a fact that we must deal with, like other countries that are more advanced than we are in terms of governance but also do the same research. Concerning the average cost of production in renewable energy and, for example, in nuclear energy, update your knowledge. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published a report in December 2020 showing that these costs were identical and, in the case of the extension of nuclear power plants, even lower costs. If we start putting things in comparison, I think it's useful for you to inquire. Mr. Cogolati, you cut shorts and compare tea towels and towels. I do the same thing, which allows me to teach you certain notions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u67	Madam Secretary, it is wise to continue these investigations. About every country with a nuclear past or future has already made a decision. They have found solutions. Only in this foreign country Belgium can no solution be found because a number of people do not want a solution to be found. If a solution is found, the story is that no solution is found, after all. That would be painful!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the past, Synatom has kept the sources of supply and enrichment of fissile material from Doel and Tihange confidential. However, in matters of public transparency, due diligence throughout the supply chain and geopolitical dependence (as in the case of gas supply sources in Belgium), it is crucial to know the "upstream" of the nuclear cycle in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u69	Finally, what is the amount of CO2 associated with the extraction and processing of uranium ores for Belgian nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u70	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, the uranium currently consumed in the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants comes from the following countries: Canada, the United States, Australia, Namibia, Kazakhstan, Russia, Niger, Malawi, South Africa and Uzbekistan. Synatom entrusts no more than 25% of its supply portfolio to a producer and ensures the diversification of mines for provenance. The percentage distribution of these uranium-producing countries varies from year to year depending on the start and end of the various contracts negotiated with producers. For enrichment and processing, after extraction, uranium is mostly treated at the mine site itself. The uranium is then transported to the converter for purification. There are currently five converters that perform the conversion work. They are located in Canada, the United States, France, Russia and China. Synatom is currently dealing with four of them. She's not dealing with China. Once the uranium has been converted, it is transported to an enrichment plant for enrichment. There are four enrichers in the world who perform the enrichment work. These companies are located in France, the Netherlands (with subsidiaries in Great Britain, Germany and the United States), Russia and China. Synatom works with three of these four companies. She doesn't work with China. The Belgian State does not require Synatom to apply social and environmental standards or to be vigilant throughout the supply chain of uranium imported into Belgium, but Synatom has taken the duty of vigilance on its own initiative. Synatom is completing its supply contracts next year, given the shutdown of nuclear power plants in 2025. Most of the companies involved in uranium extraction sign a charter in which they commit themselves to respecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of local people. According to our information, all of Synatom's suppliers have closely monitored environmental and societal developments and have taken initiatives to fit into this context. We are informed that most of Synatom's suppliers have charters in this regard published on their website. These commitments are also translated under contractual terms in the purchase contracts with Synatom. Failure to comply with these clauses leads directly to the suspension of the contract. Since 2011, natural uranium prices have increased from over $70 per pound of uranium oxide in 2011 to less than $20 at the end of 2016. Since then, prices have risen again with recent peaks above $40. Since 2011, the cost of conversion services has increased from about $13 per kilo of hexafluoride uranium to about $5 per kilo of hexafluoride uranium at the end of 2017. Since then, prices have risen sharply: more than $20. Since 2011, prices for enrichment services have increased from about 150 euros per separation work unit in 2011 to about 50 euros at present. The cost of the finished product depends on its specific characteristics at each stage of production. The cost of enriched uranium based on a 4.5% rich content increased from about $3,000 per separation work unit to less than $1,000 in 2017. Since then, prices have risen: about $1,300. In general, prices were higher in 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u71	May I suggest that very technical explanations be delivered in writing from now on? The speaking time for a question is normally two minutes. Madam Secretary, it's taken you five minutes. But, of course, I do not want to withhold that information from Members of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u72	For the volume of CO2, Synatom referred to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which calculated CO2 emissions in g/kwh from various energy sources. For nuclear power plants, it is 12 g/kwh. By comparison, wind farms are at 11g/kwh, solar panels are at 27g/kwh, gas-fired power plants are at 490g/kwh and coal-fired power plants are at 820g/kwh.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u73	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. These are important figures. It is essential that we know where uranium and nuclear fuel come from. I will refer to the other questions as filed in writing to hear the other answers. "Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u74	Mr. President, what number are we on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u75	Number 9 of the second series. It is certainly a subject that will be discussed later. I would therefore like to make it brief and concise here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u76	Mr President, is no one asking his question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u77	I'm in question number 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u78	I would like the answer, I would simply refer to the question as introduced in writing, in order to save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u79	At the 29 June 2021 meeting of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate, I explained the different costs for dismantling and managing the spent fuels that are circulating. I therefore refer you to my reply and to the report of this session. The Belgian Nuclear Liabilities Fund (NLF) was established on 18 December 2020 and will receive, as necessary, the amounts of the repayment of the nuclear supply company's loan to the operator for the spent fuel management part. The nuclear provisioning company also intends - in a second stage and with a view to consolidation - to transfer the other SICAVs to the NLFB, but these operations still need to be approved by different competent authorities, and this must be done in an orderly manner. Engie committed itself to the Nuclear Supply Commission to repay the loans for the Waste Fuel Management part at the end of 2019 triennium review. In any case, the first repayments were made according to the schedule agreed with the commission. I will include this rebate in the Nuclear Supplies Bill, which I am finalizing. The amount lent at the end of 2020 on this strand amounted to EUR 4.6 billion in total. Full reimbursement will be made at the end of 2025. It's 4.6 billion, or 4.655 million euros. I repeat: EUR 4.6 billion. The numbers are written somewhat differently from one question to another. That's why I was confused. Full reimbursement will be made at the end of 2025 and will be part of the new NLFP. As time is limited, my answer is still three paragraphs, but I believe that most of the data you are asking for have been provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u80	This is a question that we will come back to. I also have some questions, but we have to make a choice to go through the questions. The minister normally has two minutes. So you're still entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u81	Mr President, you see that I am as effective as possible, because I am referring to my questions. Don't worry. I don't have a particular line. I have the impression that Question No 7 on the CO2 balance has been skipped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u82	Mr President, I would like to take part in this debate with a reply. I do not know if Mr. Cogolati has completed his reply or if he does not wish to do so. I have to admit, I don't know where we are anymore. This is a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u83	We are at point 9 of the second series.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u84	If we proceed with a question by question, that is not normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u85	It's not clear at all, but on the other hand, I still appreciate the interactivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u86	Mr President, interactivity is good. But sometimes there are difficulties of understanding; I understand that Mr Cogolati wants to be effective and has no a priori reply on this issue and that Mr Warmoes can therefore intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u87	If I may allow myself, in the future, or we choose to hold a general topical debate in which everyone asks their questions at one time, and the replies take place also at one time, or we choose to make individual questions. But now I have the impression that we are having topical debates on each issue. It's getting a little crazy!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u88	Mr Cogolati, I think the president and perhaps his secretary have made sub-groups. I don't know what sub-group we're in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u89	I'm just intervening briefly. I think there were so many questions that proceeding "plic-ploc", going from nuclear to price and going back, made little sense. The idea has therefore come to hold three topical debates. Then, a request from the minister came to us in the last minute, who wanted to make sub-groups in the current nuclear debate. It would be better to distribute this in good time. I have a sheet and you don't have it. I'll ask for a copy. In the future, we will not settle everything, but it makes sense to bring the issues together where possible, otherwise the debate is too scattered. But we learn it every day and you will excuse me if, in the exercise today, some things were not quite clear. It is up to Mr Warmoes to speak. Mr. Cogolati had no reply on the issue of provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u90	Mr President, as far as methodology is concerned, I too am a little cautious about how to do this, since the only element that makes this debate a topical debate is the possibility for everyone to answer everyone's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u91	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u92	But there is no particular consistency. We're doing it, question after question... in fact, everyone can intervene. It's a little anarchic!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u93	I take note and we will take this into account. Indeed, there were such a range of 20 questions on this topic that I followed the minister's suggestion to make subgroups, but we can do it differently, and certainly if there are fewer questions. I propose to continue. I will take your remarks into account to do better next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u94	Mr President, briefly, it's still a pretty crazy story that this food business. The operator is being asked to make provisions so that we can manage this waste, which is quite normal. This is the polluter-pays principle, which is being applied with great severity in our citizens. This must certainly also apply to a company that produces waste. At the same time, however, these provisions are returned to producers. Electrabel was able to take advantage of the same money he had set aside so that we could be sure that the waste would be treated. There is already a question of whether these provisions are sufficient. We'll see at the end of the day. One day, we'll have to do the accounts. We're pretty cautious about that. Of course, we have taken note of the Minister's answers, that the first repayments took place and that this will be fully reimbursed in 2025. I hope that Electrabel will still exist in 2025. There are still risks. We are quite opposed to this, but I hope that the minister will monitor this very well. We will be vigilant on this issue. That is what I had to say on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u95	Anyone else want to speak? [[No.]] . Then I'd like to clarify a few things. The Minister has asked for the question No. Merge 55020579C, 55020581C and 55020582C. You referred to the oral questions and I understand that the Minister replied only to the first two questions. You have not yet answered the third question, Madam Minister. So it's a bit of a puzzle in a particularly complex theme. I therefore give the floor to the Minister for her answer to Mr Cogolati's question No 55020582 on the CO2 balance of the geological storage project for radioactive waste in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u96	The Strategic Environmental Assessment is a first assessment of the environmental impact of a generic geological storage facility in Belgium. The issue of CO2 emissions is a subject of growing interest. Through its international collaborations, ONDRAF keeps itself informed of good practices and advances in this field on the international stage. At present, however, ONDRAF does not have a carbon balance of all activities related to radioactive waste management in Belgium. Such an assessment could only be made after in-depth studies specifically on this subject. On a practical level in these construction projects, ONDRAF is taking measures to limit CO2 emissions. Research on geological storage as described in the SEA is still at the design stage. The composition of this concrete has not yet been determined. The use of recycled concrete in the formulation of geological storage concrete can be analysed at a later stage of the project. The percentage of recycled concrete will depend in particular on the final characteristics chosen for the concrete to be used in the construction of geological storage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u97	The Minister has asked for the following four questions to be grouped together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u98	Madam Minister, for Tihange 1 and the non-expanded power stations, there are two mechanisms for skimming off nuclear interest rates, which are linked to the price of energy. The cost of production and wholesale prices are therefore taken into account. For Tihange 1, we know that, apart from the first year, this almost never paid off. This is another matter for the other power stations. With current high market prices, the repartition contribution is likely to be higher than the minimum set. For example, 15% of the calculated profit margin is determined by the day-ahead market and 33% is determined by the forward market 1 year in advance. This means that current high prices will lead to an increased profit margin over four calendar years. I have questions about this. Do you believe that current market prices can have an effect on Tihange 1's contribution? How do you estimate the impact of the current price crisis on the repartition contribution? Can any additional revenue that could go to the federal government in the coming years be used to reduce the energy bill? How do you see that in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u99	Mr President, nuclear power plant operators are currently making usury profits. Their production costs have not increased, while their revenues have increased seriously due to high electricity prices. According to the estimates of our study service, based on an average electricity price of 40.72 euros per megawatt hour, Engie Electrabel is currently booking at least 127 million excess profits per month. By the way, in normal circumstances, thanks to fully deprecated nuclear power stations, the operator already makes large profits anyway. Now we are talking about a price of 110 euros per megawatt hour in this Forward Y+1 market, even 170 euros per megawatt hour in the quarterly markets. These large profits are, of course, made at the expense of the consumer. The same is true for offshore windmills, but not the producers but the buyers of offshore electricity would benefit from them because they are long-term contracts and low prices. Among other things, the Spanish Government has decided to reduce VAT and finance it by skimming off the superprofits of the large energy multinationals. We propose to do something similar, Madam Secretary. Every social measure requires money, including for your social rate. I have heard that a meeting of the core is scheduled at 4 p.m. where it will be discussed. So this is a clue. Do you agree with our analysis of these superprofits? How do you explain that consumers have to pay much more? There is already a mechanism to exploit Electrabel's usury gains, the nuclear repartition contribution. It was at the highest level of EUR 600 million, while the CREG then estimated the profits at EUR 2 billion. But last year it was committed at barely 92 million euros a year. Will you revise that mechanism? In last week's plenary session, you said that you were bound by the agreement of the previous government. Perhaps I should ask Mrs Marghem, but we obviously want to see that agreement. I would have liked to have heard from you how you are bound with your hands and feet and why you can't help it, when the government normally has or should have that power.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u100	As a penance, I have left you to speak a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u101	For Forward, nuclear interest rates have always been a very important theme. Since the time of Bruno Tuybens, we have been trying to implement that principle. Why? Because the Belgian taxpayer co-financed these large-scale power stations. Today they are being written off. That means that these power stations can operate today with a great deal of profit, as Mr Warmoes rightly says. We did not consider the skimming in the previous legislature to be a good thing. When I look at the current situation, I think we should definitely review the situation in view of the current energy crisis. Madam Secretary, on Thursday you spoke of a strangle contract. I'd like to know more about that. On Thursday we did not have the time to do so, but I want to know exactly what that is and what we can possibly do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u102	Mr. President, Minister, you have made statements about your willingness to tax overprofits in the energy sector. You stated that you asked CREG to conduct an evaluation of these overprofits. Can you tell us exactly when this request was made and in what terms? Can we have the mission letter you sent him on this subject? How long will the CREG be able to respond to you? In general, how do you envisage the implementation of such taxation? Are you going to be inspired by the distribution contribution model or by another model? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u103	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. As regards Tihange 1, the control of the proceeds and costs of this nuclear power plant shall be carried out in accordance with the Agreement of 12 March 2014 and the amendment of the life-cycle extension agreement of 31 March 2017. This is a task entrusted to the CREG. Given the losses carried over from previous years, I do not expect the Tihange 1 contribution to be positive this year. As far as the repartition contribution is concerned, it accounts for about one third of the theoretical profits of the nuclear power plants. We have discussed this on a number of occasions in connection with the confirmation of the KBs in this committee. This is theoretical profits, after deduction of theoretical costs, based on a calculation method laid down in the law by the previous government in 2016. It is a complex mechanism with many adjustments over the different years of both prices and contributions. If the power stations run as planned, the mechanism assumes that 85% of the electricity is sold in advance and only 15% on the day ahead market. This year's revenue is based on the results of the previous year's mechanism. There is also a three-yearly minimum contribution and a three-yearly adjustment. This year the contribution is slightly higher than the minimum contribution set but the year before the contribution was increased to the minimum contribution. In 2022, the three-yearly adjustment will thus partly include this year's higher prices in the adjustment. Since I do not have a crystal ball, it is difficult to estimate at this stage what the real impact will be in 2022. At first glance, current high prices will not directly lead to much higher repartition fees than this year, but an enforcement or increase cannot be ruled out. Today's high prices also have an impact on the contributions for the years after 2022 and on the next fixing of the minimum contribution. It's too early to know what the effect will be. I asked the CREG to look at the adequacy of the repartition contributions relating to the windfall profits of the nuclear power plants when analysing the potential windfall benefits from the energy companies. As I said in plenary last week, the state is bound here by an agreement concluded by the previous government with Engie, which will make it very difficult to deviate from this system. The repartition fee shall be paid directly to the State. The future allocation of these resources is therefore an issue on which the government will have to take a decision in the context of future budgetary negotiations. I am not aware of the fact that the CREG requested a report within two weeks. The CREG itself will publish the results of its analyses, as required by law. Right now, I haven't sat down with Engie, because I'm waiting for the CREG to analyze. As I said in plenary, I am bound by a contract concluded with Engie by the previous government. That contract cannot be changed unilaterally, which is a basic rule of Belgian contract law. It is still premature to talk about the implementation of such taxation. I can clearly say that I am not in favour of an energy policy through conventions: that is an energy policy of the last century.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u104	Madam Minister, that actually means that you cannot say very much today in terms of figures, despite the fact that you have said that 85% of the money has been sold in advance. This means that, to a very large extent, you already have a view of the exact profit margin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u105	Maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u106	That's not maybe, that's true. If 19 % is sold 3 years in advance, 33 % and 1 year in advance 33 % and we already know for the most part of the year what the market prices were, you can actually make a ruling for most of 2022 and even for more than half of 2023. You're hiding behind the particle you don't know today. We will see what the CREG makes of it and what figures they put forward. I have the impression that the CREG has already partly made that exercise and that a lot is already in place in advance. You need to be clear about the figures that are already in place today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u107	Madam Minister, Mr Wollants is absolutely right. So I won't repeat what he just said. You already know the numbers, especially since the first royal decree you signed relates to the allocation contribution. This order was confirmed by a law that we recently passed. Everyone welcomed the fact that you had made sure that this law could be passed in Parliament well before the end of the year. In this law which confirms this royal decree, there is an analysis of the CREG of fixed and variable costs. The CREG also performs this work for Tihange 1. Mr President, allow me to make a little history for Mr Warmoes. It's not just Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u108	Mrs Marghem, that is not possible, given the number of points on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u109	In that case, let me just say that there is nothing to hope for in relation to Tihange 1. The CREG is also involved in costing because the formula makes 700 million deferred debts. Before surviving with profits to have a little return to the state according to the convention, the hens will have teeth. Furthermore, Ms Van der Straeten stated that no contract was unattainable and that she was bound by the previous contract. But it should have said that it was bound by the two previous contracts, namely Doel 1 and Tihange 1. If a contract is attackable, it may be Tihange 1's because the formula has been badly balanced. As far as we are concerned, we have refused this formula and have made provision for a package. This is what allows the Energy Transition Fund today to have EUR 20 million per year for ten years. Why do these contracts exist? Because the law allowed them. Parliament has, each time, passed laws to allow the government to take these conventions. In doing so, and on the basis of the Energy Charter Treaty, and the fact that the CREG has the numbers and evaluates them and that this information is known to the minister, I do not see how we will find extra profit in nuclear energy. On the other hand, I call on the minister to do the same as I did and to remove four billion euros from offshore operators, which means that there is room for improvement. At this level, there may be overprofits to be taxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u110	Madam Secretary, I think you're being very careful. I mean, these weirdo profits are pretty damn obvious. I asked you to confirm the figures, but you didn't. We will await the CREG's study. I have no doubt that these profits will be confirmed, perhaps not in detail, but they are indisputable. By the way, when will that study be? What you have said, however, is proof that the mechanism of the repartition contribution is totally inadequate. I would remind you that we are asking for full transparency on this contract. Perhaps we should organise a separate meeting for this purpose? We really want to know what you have been negotiating, Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u111	Everything has been published, Mr. Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u112	We'll check all this on the House site. It is clear that we need more than that, we cannot leave things as they are, and I do not feel in you, Madam Minister, a willingness to act, while your task is to find ways to lower the price for consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u113	Madam Minister, I await the CREG study with colleagues, but I naturally regret the steps taken by the previous government. In my view, she has been too quick to be deterred by any legal proceedings. The invoices we are paying today are the result of that. I fully agree with you that this type of agreement is part of the energy policy of the last century.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u114	Madam Minister, I have often referred to the recommendation of the International Energy Agency that Belgium is best prepared for the possible lifetime of its nuclear power plants. If the CRM auction does not end well, we will be relatively late to keep the last two plants in operation. We have to note that the relevant passage in the report to be published has been greatly watered down. I understand that we are currently in turbulent waters, when it comes to security of supply, and ministers are constantly pointing fingers at each other. But who am I, if your Flemish colleague from Energy says with accusing finger that that passage would have been weakened after a bilateral contact between you and the IEA, although the IEA operates independently. What bilateral contacts were there between you and the IEA? Have you made any recommendations yourself? How do you explain the change of course in the report that will be published in December?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u115	Mr Van Lommel, I am opposed to the tenor of your question, which is based on a tone put in the media. What's an in-depth review? An in-depth review is carried out by the IEA and is carried out according to standard procedures, followed by the internal Belgian alignment, as it has been established. I say to you, Mr Van Lommel, to everyone in the committee and to everyone who reads the report that the standard procedures have been complied with. Last May there were consultations between the IEA experts and the Belgian federal and regional entities. Civil society was also involved. The preparation and representation are carried out by standard procedures. Agreements have been made on how comments could be made to the IEA, and we have followed them strictly. As an autonomous international organisation, the IEA shall conduct its own analyses, draw up its own recommendations and formulate them on an independent basis, on the basis of the input it receives from the Member State. The in-depth review is not limited to the consultations that took place in May in a period of one week. It is a process, spread over several months and ends with the formal adoption of the final report at a meeting of the IEA. In the case of the Belgian in-depth review, this will in principle be done in December. During this period of time, the IEA naturally monitors the evolution of the regulation, for example of the CRM. Of course, the findings in this area will be included in the written analyses and recommendations. I am therefore waiting for the final report, as it will be published at the end of the year, Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u116	Madam Minister, I am of course also waiting for the report to be published in December, but for the sake of clarity, that is not the tone I am putting down today. You are referring to a media-designed tone; I am not doing that. I would, of course, like to believe that the proper procedures have been followed, but what can I say if your Flemish colleague for Energy, Mrs Demir, says otherwise than what you are saying here today? What am I supposed to believe as a Member of Parliament? Madam Minister, I suggest that you contact Minister Demir to clarify this, because, as I said in my introduction, it is a very difficult debate and a subject on which the people are very concerned. If we still have to deal with such hints, it is not conducive. For the record, I didn't put the tone down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u117	The international public consultation for Objectives 1 and 2 from April to June can boast more than 9,500 responses. They need to be analyzed. You have already promised a draft law on this subject, which must be adopted by the end of next year. It's the first time public interviews have been so generous. Hundreds of millions of people were able to react. So it is good to think about that. Can you provide us with some data? How many reactions were finally received? How are these distributed among neighbouring countries around 1,000 kilometres around the power stations? Details can be given in writing. Are there any conclusions to be drawn from the type of responses received? Do you also see the number of responses submitted by environmental movements from various countries? What are the different conclusions? How far do you stand with the bill that you have to draw up for the extension law? When do you wish to present this to Parliament? Do you consider that, in addition to the necessary legislative work, adjustments are also necessary for the technical parameters of the LTO project for the two units? Were there any conversations with the operators before this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u118	In May I had already asked a similar question, when the public survey around Objectives 1 and 2 had started. Residents outside Belgium could be consulted from 2 April to 2 July. Citizens of Belgium could do this from 15 April to 15 June. In May, it was still too premature to make a number of concrete statements. How did the questioning end? How much was the response at home and abroad? What conclusions can be drawn from this? How are the further formalities concerning the environmental impact report? Legislation will have to be amended by the end of 2022. Do you still consider it feasible to complete the necessary preparations in the context of this lifetime extension until 2025 for Objectives 1 and 2? I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors, which published a report at the end of last year on the extent to which administrative risks are controlled in the federal nuclear sector institutions, with regard to the management agreement with the SCK, the IRE and the NIRAS. You said that a management agreement is a matter of good governance and that this way, with those management agreements, you want to obtain more guarantees that public funds will be used efficiently. Madam Minister, what is the state of play on these management agreements for the SCK, the IRE and the NIRAS? My second question concerns federal support for cooperation between the SCK and the IBA. Particle accelerator producer IBA, on the one hand, and the Belgian nuclear research centre, on the other, have joined forces through a strategic R&D partnership for the production of actinium-225. Belgium would therefore be the first country to produce actinium-225 on a large scale. Part of the project is financed from the European Relance Fund. Is there also federal support provided, as in the SMART project of the IRE? Are certain funds promised? Belgium indicated that it wanted to become the market leader in the production of actinium-225. What is the timetable of this project? You also referred to the job creation of this project. How do you see this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u119	Mr President, as you know, nearly 10,000 responses were received to the questions on Objective 1 and Objective 2. This is actually about two consultations that have been joined together. On the one hand, there is the national public consultation of the public concerned and the competent Belgian authorities. It was closed on 15 June and was run via a website, an internet platform. On the other hand, there was a cross-border consultation within a 1,000 km radius, with all the countries that feel involved in this project until the end of June. As provided for in the EIA Directive and the Espoo Convention, Poland and Austria have asked questions about the environmental impact assessment report prepared by independent experts designated by the Belgian State and Electrabel. This was organised by means of correspondence between the competent administrations, because of the health situation, because of the corona situation. Belgian experts prepared answers during several working meetings during the summer. These coordinated responses were sent to these two countries at the beginning of September. Poland considered that all its questions were answered in full. Austria is expected to give us its final opinion by the beginning of November at the latest. The SCK will finalise the report with the detailed analysis of the results of both national and cross-border consultation. All relevant documents received in the context of that consultation shall be published as soon as possible after the conclusion of the cross-border consultation on the website of the FPS Economy, normally at the beginning of November. I therefore stand by my intention to submit a preliminary draft law on regularisation to the Council of Ministers by the end of this year. That draft can then be submitted to the Chamber at the beginning of next year, after the Council of State has given you sufficient time to deal with it. My administration shall draw a reasoned conclusion on the significant environmental impacts of the project, taking into account the results of the environmental impact assessment and all relevant information received in the context of the consultations. I am, of course, waiting for that report to come to its own conclusions. My job is to file a recovery bill to correct the mistakes of the past. That recovery law will, of course, in no way lead us to deviate from the regulatory licensing obligations under the applicable FANC and regional rules to which the nuclear operator is subject. As far as the management agreements are concerned, we have indeed started working on the comments made by the Court of Auditors. Better management of the nuclear institutions is also at the heart of our policy. We hold regular consultations with the institutions concerned and we have received three proposals for management contracts. The Boards of Directors of IRE and SCK CEN have recently been renewed. That has just happened so that we can discuss the proposals of management agreements with these new boards of directors. We have given priority to the completion of the management agreement with the NIRAS, the management board of which should not be renewed. That management agreement is well on its way to completion and could be signed in the coming weeks. Now I come to the cooperation between the SCK CEN and IBA. Indeed, the actinium-225 project has specific support for its feasibility through the European Relance Fund. There is no specific federal support out there. Of course, the SCK receives the annual amount for its operation, but it is not specifically aimed at a particular project. The strategic R&D partnership to support the fesability phase has a duration of one year and is renewable. The aim of the feasabilty phase is to analyse the technical and economic feasibility and success of the actinium 225 project. During the feasabilty phase, the concrete planning of the realisation of the actinium 225 infrastructure will also be developed. The realisation of the actinium 225 infrastructure will be an important catalyst for the development of therapeutic radioisotopes and associated radiopharmaceuticals in Belgium. It also provides the opportunity to build an entire ecosystem around it, which will have a significant macro-economic impact in the future. In this sense, my answer to this question is in line with the debate just now on the post-nuclear era and its possibilities. Here is a concrete project in which it is intended to stay strong and large in something in which our country is strong and large, namely medical radioisotopes, and to extend it to therapy, not just for diagnosis. Therefore, this project is supported under the Relance Plan as it attracts investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u120	Madam Minister, we will therefore have to be patient to get a full picture of what everything will look like. We will, of course, follow it up and we will also check whether the draft law comes in time. You will recall that the last time there was about 60 hours of parliamentary debate on the extension of the life span of Objectives 1 and 2. I wonder if someone used the blue box of Jean-Marc Nollet to dust that debate, but it is urgently necessary that we approve the extension of the service life in room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u121	Madam Minister, the SCK CEN has yet to conclude. I understand that the conclusions will be on the FPS Economy website at the beginning of November. We will have to wait and see. You have also made a commitment to come to the Chamber with a draft law at the beginning of 2022. As Mr Wollants says, I can only hope that we will be able to approve the extension. You also referred to the fact that the EIA procedure takes a very long time. So I can only hope that we will be in time to get everything done. The actinium 225 project is particularly important. It also deserves all the support it deserves. I understand that at the moment it is mainly dependent on the resources of the European recovery fund, combined with the general resources it receives from the federal government. I can only hope that you will do what is necessary to provide sufficient funding if those funds are insufficient and if specific questions are asked to the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u122	Mr President, during the day-to-day business period, we had worked very hard with the administration to establish a "retro-calendar", so that the law of correction would be filed in time and time. For the time being, I see that the timetable is being respected and that all the steps we have planned are being properly carried out, so that I do not have too many fears.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u123	Everyone gets a maximum of three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u124	My question concerns the extension of the social tariff. You did that in 2020, as everyone here, of course, knows. We approved that too, which was a good decision. It is also the slope that you are now pushing forward to meet rising energy prices for consumers. As far as we are concerned, this enlargement must become permanent. We therefore support you, of course, in the matter of the extension. However, the system also needs to be revised, because the aim must be to establish a direct link between the granting of the social rate and the income of a family. I don't know how far you stand with that? The point is that the social tariff itself is not blissful, because it follows market prices. It follows the commercial tariffs. As commercial tariffs are rising sharply, the social tariff has also increased. For natural gas, it almost doubled, from 1.6 cents per kilowatt hour to 2.7 cents per kilowatt hour. We support your piste, but that is certainly not the only measure you can take to undo or compensate for the rise in rates for users. My question is what you will do about it. Will you intervene to ensure that the social rate remains affordable? It has the label socially but in the long run it is no longer for the people in the most precarious situations. Has the government decided on this yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u125	Madam Minister, I am speaking completely independently of my questions, in the sense that I want to know today, above all, how you are handling matters. In recent weeks, you have been asked a great many questions about certain measures for those who are entitled to the social rate and those who are not entitled to the social rate. You were also asked to clarify how you want to deal with the additional VAT revenue and that kind of thing. I believe that it would be a good idea to give a full overview of the steps you are preparing to ensure that all these target groups are covered. That is to say, both those who are in a very difficult situation and those who are now facing difficulties but are not entitled to any specific social measure. It is also the SMEs and larger companies that are in difficulty in terms of competitiveness. Can you give all these groups a state of play on the government's plans? Can you tell me what possibilities there are? We will then be able to discuss this further in the coming weeks. I think it is also important that you give a perspective on what steps you are currently taking with European partners in the wider story. We can, of course, ensure that we adjust on the basis of what we now see in the markets and consider that to be an established fact, but I can also imagine that there are discussions at the moment to see what Europe could do in the future. If you can give us a complete overview of this, we can then see how we structure our questions further. I'm not going to go into all the details I've added to my questions, which will be for another time. However, I would like to hear how you will deal with the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u126	Madam Minister, we have already discussed energy prices in plenary on Thursday, which are also discussed at the kitchen table, because they are important to the people. Both Thursday and the last few days I have heard a minister and a federal government trying to look at the whole picture. Firstly, we are in a European market and it is a European price increase. Two weeks ago, in plenary, you referred to the last consultation with your European colleagues. I would therefore like to hear what proposals have been put on the table to deal with the problem at European level, because in this case too, cooperation seems to me to be the key word. Secondly, Green considers it extremely important to protect the most vulnerable in our society from high energy prices. You put the extension of the social tariff on the table last year, and you are doing so now too. As I said on Thursday, this is also supported by the King Baudouin Foundation. In addition, they have put forward several other recommendations in their report. I was wondering if you would include some of these recommendations in your further policy. In addition, I agree with Mr Wollants's questions on the broader view of energy prices that the federal government wants to put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the energy bill currently dominates Parliament because people are rightly concerned about their energy bill and they are wondering how they will pay it. Madam Minister, I naturally expect you to provide concrete answers to the question of how you intend to deal with the problem in the short term. After all, I see a lot of hints from one parliament to another. One parliament states that federal measures are needed, while here it is stated that a large part of the energy bill is taxes charged by Flanders. However, people simply want a solution and an answer. Above all, they want to be able to pay their energy bill. Mr President, I propose that my question on the energy standard be dealt with next time, if that means that there is more time to go into the question in greater depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u128	Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u129	Minister, energy prices are blazing. Ms. Almaci stated in De Zevende Dag that, as far as she was concerned, immediate action should be taken. You want to expand the social rate. Do you want to extend this measure only in time or do you want to expand the beneficiary base as well? The energy standard supports businesses. The same applies to offshore degression. All this is paid by the Lambda consumer who does not have access to the social tariff and who finds all these overloads on his bill. At MR, we defend the middle class and the ratchet system. I would like to know, at the end of this weekend's discussions, what solutions are emerging. I would also like to know whether these will take place quickly, and within what time frame. They should be taught as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u130	Madam Minister, this debate is more or less the same as the debate in plenary. There is rightly great concern about the affordability and composition of the energy bill. The energy bill's swinging out of the pan. Several possibilities or slopes have already been suggested. We're looking forward to the energy standard. With Minister Van Peteghem, you have prepared a regulation on excise duties. Others suggest an energy check. Madam Secretary, my question is actually very simple. When will you come up with what measures to keep the energy bill affordable and easy for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u131	Madam Secretary, rising electricity prices affect every family in our country. There is no miracle solution, but it is important for politics to take responsibility. There are many reasons for the debate. Let's go to the government table and look for solutions. As a Member of this House, I would like to take this opportunity in particular to highlight two side effects, which I think are very important. Firstly, everyone has to keep their heads down, but I can imagine that it is not an easy time for energy suppliers today either. I am concerned about the advances that are being charged today. I think it is important to ensure that this is properly monitored. I understand the suppliers want to cover their risks, but the pendulum must not go to the other side. The unpredictability of the market may sometimes result in excessive advances being charged. In a press release from Test Purchase, I read that some suppliers do not even modify certain products, which means that customers are obliged to switch from a fixed to a variable contract. It is not by chance that we are dealing with suppliers who have not signed the consumer agreement, which does not make things easier. Madam Minister, how can we monitor the market in this difficult period? Secondly, there is now an energy crisis, but recently we have had another crisis in our country as a result of the floods caused by the climate disaster in Wallonia. In the affected region, people are currently heating their humid houses with electric fires. I can imagine two crises coming together there. The high electricity bill is reinforced by rising gas prices. Madam Secretary, I ask you to avoid further dramatic situations. What can we do in addition to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u132	Madam Minister, I have a few specific questions about what the government will do in this problematic dossier. You spoke of a reduction in the federal tax. There are 50 euros per year in the press. If my calculation is correct, the federal charge amounts to about EUR 57 per year, of which EUR 12 for the federal contribution and EUR 45 for Elia's surcharges. Can you confirm in committee that it is the government's intention to reduce the federal tax to EUR 7? Is that the order of magnitude used or is the federal tax to be reduced to zero? What size is the government talking about in terms of excise duties? There is between EUR 50 and EUR 100, while there is around EUR 1,000 per year for consumers. Does the government have the will to do something radical to reduce the invoice? In 2012, you yourself defended the VAT reduction on energy. I thought that was a brave point of view. Forward and PS had the VAT reduction on energy to 6% as a breaking point during the government negotiations. Stilan really creates a momentum to reduce VAT to 6 %. What are the arguments of the Vivaldi government not to do that? After all, it would mean a reduction of EUR 300 to 400 per year for the people. It is important to take such a drastic measure, given the critical situation in which people find themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u133	Mr Hedebouw, I ask you to respect the speaking time and to conclude now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u134	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 27 September we were informed that Test Achats had sent you a letter pointing out that many gas and electricity suppliers were not complying with the Consumer Agreement, that is, the consumer agreement in the liberalised gas and electricity market, which aims to prevent abusive practices and misleading information that consumers may suffer in their relations with energy suppliers. In this letter, Test Achats points out that, in the face of the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices, some suppliers are reducing their tariff offer - many of them no longer offering fixed rates to new customers, as well as customers who have to extend their fixed-price contract. Furthermore, the association raises a lack of clarity and transparency regarding the information provided to customers by certain suppliers, which may in some cases be considered as a violation of the provisions of the Consumer Agreement with regard to the renewal of an energy contract. The agreement stipulates that the supplier must transmit to customers a proposal to extend the existing energy contract two months before the expiry of their contract, as well as specific information on changes to the terms of the existing contract and request the customer's agreement. If this is not the case, the supplier is obliged to guarantee a contract equivalent to the contract originally entered into. Madam Minister, can we have your feedback on this and, in particular, on the shortcomings in the information provided to customers and new customers mentioned in the mail? Was this point raised with your colleague in charge of consumer protection? Test Achats points out that several signatories of the Consumer Agreement appear not to respect it. Can we be informed of the arrangements for monitoring compliance with this agreement? Finally, Test Achats advocates the obligation to comply with the Consumer Agreement for all energy suppliers. Can we get your reaction about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u135	In recent weeks, each party has put forward suggestions to reduce energy prices for consumers in one way or another. The proposals went from VAT reductions and energy cheques to a reverse cliquet system. The first question is, of course, to what extent the government benefits from additional VAT revenues. There are also negative effects; I refer to the article in De Tijd of October 4. What the consumer pays more in energy, he or she pays less on something else. Every advantage has its drawbacks, too. Conversely, the fall in prices of 20 to 30% in recent years also brought less VAT contributions by that consumer. In short, we must solve the problem of ever increasing energy prices, but certainly with common sense. This means that we need to focus on structural measures such as a federal excise duty and an energy standard. What measures are you thinking of and what are on the table for the government talks? What measures can be implemented in the short term, but are they also structurally sound and take account of the budgetary situation? It's easy to say that the government benefits. At the same time, we must not forget that we are faced with a budgetary crater and that the deficit must be filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u136	The market is extremely nervous. Even today, energy prices on the day-ahead markets are again high. Prices rise in a few hours. During the plenary session we also discussed the attraction of the economy after the coronapandemic. That is a good thing in itself. The economy is in full swing, resulting in a high demand for energy and raw materials in general. At the same time, there is a high demand for gas due to the increased demand for heat in a cold spring here and to cooling in a warm summer in Asia. So there has been a huge demand for gas that puts enormous pressure on prices. The situation we are facing today is not an exclusive Belgian phenomenon, prices are rising worldwide. The energy market today is rather nervous. I would stress that in order to make it clear to you that the policy choices we have to make must be structural. After all, we will still be faced with nervous markets in the future. In some neighbouring countries, measures are now being taken in a rather nervous way. However, it is important to ensure that we are ready, that we are resilient. We must therefore have a structural energy policy. That policy can be found in the energy standard. Many specific questions have been asked about this today. We're on schedule for that. I've outlined that schedule a few times here in committee. The coalition agreement states that we must introduce a benchmarked energy standard, not just for companies, also for families. The intention was to put forward the first proposals at this time of year, and they are there. This will be concluded in the framework of the budgetary negotiations. So it will not be the last time that we will talk about this in this committee. Legislative initiatives will be launched before the end of the year. The reform is that we want to introduce the energy standard through the method of excise duties, which should allow us to improve the purchasing power of families and increase the competitiveness of businesses. Why exactly is the debate on the energy standard covered by structural policy? Well, of course, it cannot be the intention to organise competition between those who are having a hard time and those who are having a hard time. Everyone is facing high energy prices today: people living in poverty, people with a very modest income, the middle class, the better earners, who may be less affected by this, but also for many companies today this is an issue. I am thinking of the companies for which energy accounts for a large part of the cost. We can see that production processes are already being shut down today. It's not competition. It's not a bid either. The bottom line is to put things in place in a structural manner so that they can be implemented as quickly as possible. I'm glad we started this with the government on time. After all, such a thing cannot be introduced overnight. If we have to come up with a solution today, we will not be able to implement it tomorrow. I can tell you that the teams of the various Cabinets concerned have been working on this for many months. That means we have a head start to implement the energy standard very quickly. We are also at the forefront of the social tariff. Many of you have referred to it. I read in the press that there are different feelings about this: one does not go far enough; the other thinks that such a rate should be temporary. What's this all about? What's the bottomline? We have had the instrument of the social tariff in our country for a long time. For ten years, this has also been applied automatically to persons receiving benefits. That social rate is not always in line with income. The government decided in February to extend the target group of social tariff to persons entitled to an increased allowance. The statute on this subject, which is granted by the sickness funds, means, among other things, that only EUR 1 must be paid to the general practitioner. The government had already started preparing the legislative work in this respect a year ago, so that it could implement the scheme from February this year. People see that on their March and April invoice this year. It's about 1 million families and 2 million people. Those are people who are protected from the price increases today. We should not be doing flash-flame politics. We must not go behind the facts. We should not, like some of our neighbouring countries, design and implement overnight decisions. We have ensured that a very large group of Belgians today is actually protected from the price increases. Saves more than a sip on the drink. We all know people in that situation. That's about people who have an income of about 1,500 gross. It's about people with precarious jobs. It's about single people with children who have to decide at the end of the month what they're spending their money on. For those people, we are already making sure that they can still pay for their energy by the end of the month. We will not solve all the financial problems. However, what is now additional to the cost of price increases is already less of a concern for many people today than it would have been otherwise. No government in Europe has made a decision today on the same scale as Belgium. This also means that today, in the context of the budgetary negotiations, we are looking at what was in itself a temporary measure, i.e. an 11-month measure due to expire in December 2021, to be extended in 2022, so that at least winter can be covered in conjunction with an energy standard, which is then a structural policy measure. Structural policies are, of course, not only implemented at national level. This is also being done at European level. The question has also been asked here. Two weeks ago, the issue of the informal Energy Council in Ljubljana was, of course, also a hot topic. At that time, the European Commissioner, Mr Simson, announced that she would develop a toolbox for the Member States, with which they could also be resilient. A structural policy at European level aims to maximise the use of renewable energy, namely on the two technologies for which the price is falling, namely wind and sun. Last Sunday we noticed how at the time of a lot of wind, albeit in combination with a lower demand, the price was EUR 0 for six hours. We saw this during the covid crisis. This gives us a glimpse of the direction in which we need to evolve - we have talked about this before - namely speeding up the production of renewable energy combined with energy efficiency. Europe will also continue its efforts in this area. A letter was indeed sent to my fellow Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, Mrs De Bleeker, who shared that letter with me. I also spoke to the energy suppliers myself. There are two aspects to the debate. On the one hand, there is indeed the fact that consumers are closely following developments in this area on a volatile energy market facing advances that are required to be increased, and perhaps with less transparency. That is why we went into consultation with the suppliers to see if we can transform the existing corona charter into a consumer charter on the volatile energy market. The discussions on this matter are constructive, even though we are not quite there yet. On the other hand, suppliers themselves are also exposed to high risks. On them, too, the nervously rising prices weigh. They are also faced with consumers, especially those with a fixed contract, who no longer change supplier or contract. The way in which the supplier covers for the mobility or immobility of its customers may also put pressure on the resilience of the supplier himself. What I don't want is bankruptcy with a supplier. If a supplier goes bankrupt, as we see today in the UK, we risk a domino effect, because all customers have to be taken over by another supplier. I will always be a partner to you, as I always was. We have already discussed this in the discussions on the simplified invoice and the dormant energy contracts. I will always be on the side of the consumer, but I ask you to think with me about the situation of suppliers. A diligent supplier market, especially in today's nervous and volatile market, requires mature and strong consumers, but also strong suppliers. We need to find the right place. Mr President, it will not be the last time we talk about the subject, especially in the context of the budget. All the elements are knocked off in the budget and in the budgetary situation. The government will come up with a balanced package, which will provide an answer for the various groups of people and companies, allowing us to stand together in the crisis and, above all, to be armed against any other price shocks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u137	Madam Minister, I am charmed by your passion and by the fact that you have got rid of the prepared answers to the prepared questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u138	Madam Secretary, you have focused very much on the social tariff, as in the previous answers. However, you should not forget that 80% of the population is not eligible and that the federal contribution is likely to increase to finance the basic social tariff. I can't see what you're gonna do with that today. When it comes to the energy standard, with all due respect, that would not have helped us today. This energy standard has always been a benchmark for prices in the surrounding countries. And if possible, the price is even higher than here. So there is work to be done there too. You say you don't want to take panic measures right now. Does that mean nothing's gonna happen today? That is not clear to me, but I will return to that in the coming weeks. Finally, with regard to suppliers, there is a risk in terms of social tariffs, which must be pre-financed by those suppliers. Is that a good way of doing things? Shouldn't we be working and doing other things?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u139	Madam Secretary, you want to develop a balanced policy for the future. There must be no panic measures. I have heard that a balanced package from the federal government is for discussion during the budget discussions. It is also good to look at these structural measures, the energy standard and the extension of the social package. I would like to stress once again that one in five Belgian families is protected by the social tariff and is therefore literally not in the cold. I think that is a very strong signal from this government, she is showing her social face. I have also noted that there is cooperation and consultation at European level, particularly with regard to the roll-out of renewable energy, because wind and sun are the only sources of energy that will be cheaper in the future. Finally, I would also like to appeal to the Flemish Government. I can only ask you to do as much effort as the federal level, for the 22% Flemish extra cost on our electricity bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u140	Madam Minister, the fact that at the moment 1 million families need the social tariff is clearly a sign that there is something very wrong with the tax bill that has become the energy bill. A third goes to the state treasury, in the case of gas, and two thirds in the case of electricity. Then where are the socialists with their social faces who have ever made a breaking point in the VAT reduction? Now you've come to the media to say that not everyone needs it. Please reduce the VAT rate to 6 %. Make sure that the removal of nuclear profits is fully used to reduce the energy bill. Play the charges, Madam Secretary. Get off that invoice that shouldn't be on it. Implement a reverse cliquet system. Because how do you explain to a family that has to pay an extra 1,000 euros for electricity and an extra 1,500 euros for gas, that it doesn't need a VAT reduction to 6%? In fact, I find it very cheap that you hide behind that tax bill in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u141	Minister, I am a little disappointed with your answer. In fact, politically, you are clearly saying that you are going to limit yourself to the social rate. You have not answered any questions about people who are not affected by this tariff. So I'm a little worried. The political signal given today is that there will be no measures for the 80-85% of the population. This is the first lesson in your answer. Secondly, you say that the social tariff compensates for increases in energy prices: that is not true. There is an alignment with the market price, obviously less, but it still exists. There's a doubling of the rate. People pay more, even in the social rate, and will find it difficult to pay. Thirdly, you're telling me about the norm. You are referring everything back to the medium term, but in comparison with which countries will this energy standard be made? The surrounding countries? What will this solve, since everything will increase? You have no answer. Fourthly, excuse me for saying that the liberalisation of the sector has been of no use at all, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is being understood by everyone. You are, quite rightly, afraid of a supplier's bankruptcy. This shows that this liberalisation of the market has been of no use at all, except to create complete chaos.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u142	Madam Minister, I am also a little disappointed by your response, which places emotional and ideological accents where you want to put them, but which does not give anything concrete as an answer, apart from the fact that you are going to expand the social rate. It is not known whether this is the application time or the base. The result is that 80% of people, therefore the huge middle class, support this rising social rate. This has just been demonstrated and is absolutely correct. The big problem is the budget. In your bill, you have GRT transport, federal contribution, renewable support and VAT. All this is for the federal government. You say that the renewable cost nothing while we pay a very important support to the renewable in these invoices. So you're going to add the social rate you're going to expand, the energy standard, offshore degression and CRM. All this will be borne in part by the budget so that we do not see too much of the problem on the electricity bill which, in any case, will continue to increase. So I have a big problem with tomorrow's taxes. These will be paid by the middle class and will be the result of this policy of making everything possible through the budget to hide, in reality, the real costs. I therefore ask you to reflect in depth and concretely, and to come with a project that, at least, will keep the church in the middle of the village and support those who work and pay taxes in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u143	Madam Minister, it is clear that families and businesses are having a hard time paying their invoices. Measures are needed in the short and long term. The idea of extending the social tariff, which we have already extended temporarily, is, however, sympathetic to us, and nobody should be left behind, as I have already said, but it is not structural enough. There are still further measures to be taken. I'm glad you agree. It is only a measure for 20% of families, while the other 80% are also having a difficult time. Structural measures are certainly needed, such as the energy standard linked to the introduction of the excise duty system. I'm sure that should be looked at. We need to look not only at the current situation, but also at the future, hence the need for short-term and long-term measures. I realize that the government is not facing an easy task. I hope that a good agreement can be reached quickly and wish you every success. However, I also hope that everyone will assume their responsibilities and not just look at the federal government. The regional governments must also shoulder their responsibilities, because structural measures can still be taken at these levels. By blackmailing people, we're not gonna help people pay for their energy bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u144	Mr President, first of all I would like to respond to the slogans of the Flemish Interest. I do not know what kind of world you are living in, Mr Van Lommel, but today the main reason for the increase in the invoice is the international gas price. When prices were very low last year, I didn't hear you. Your talk isn't gonna help anybody. As far as the 6% VAT is concerned, we are still in favour of this. I note that majority parties are proposing different solutions today. Instead of moaning and moaning in a corner, we prefer to think along. We have, among other things, put forward proposals on the increase in VAT revenues and will now, together with the Minister, wait and see how the story ends. She has again discussed a number of issues today. The social tariff would indeed be a good thing to bridge the winter. You know what my main concern is: the social tariff does not solve the lack of isolation or the fact that people with outdated household appliances continue to work. That is my main problem in this respect, even if it is not entirely within your powers. Finally, you did not mention the energy bill of the victims of the flood. It is a small group, but I would like to draw attention to them, because they are affected by two crises at the same time this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic589x.u145	Madam Minister, I think we are all aware that the use of the electricity or gas bill as an additional tax bill, which has shifted a number of subsidies to citizens and businesses over time, has its limits. I am glad that you are also paying attention to the broader picture when you say that it is not just a social issue. I understand that our friends of the PTB are now concerned not only with the self-employed, but also with the rich, by proposing a gesture through VAT. It is clear that we must also bear in mind the cost to businesses. We also need strong suppliers that can guarantee continuity, because that too is in the interests of the citizens. Finally, we must also send the message to the citizens that, even in times of peak consumption and high prices, they can also make a personal effort to control their consumption. This has a double effect, because their account will be lower and there is an effect on price increases. We must be aware that fluctuations will continue. We need to look for systems that are sustainable. In this sense, I would like to mention your mention of the conversion of taxes into excise duties, the reverse cliquet system and the energy standard. These are positive signals that we fully support. We continue to count on your attention to the budget, otherwise the wallet of the next generations will only be burdened more heavily.
