ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u1	Mr President, thank you very much for discussing this important dossier. I have a rather upholstered introduction and will therefore make a rather upholstered statement, but I have also been accompanied by Mr Jo De Cock, the administrator-general of the RIZIV. He has taken the file very much to heart in the past period. I believe that Mr De Cock has also written scientific publications on this subject a long time ago, so that he knows it well. Mr President, I propose that I give the introduction and perhaps do justice to the quality of the debate by having the answers first given by Mr De Cock, if there were any further questions. In my Public Health Policy Note for 2021, I indicated that the Medical Accidents Fund (MSF) was going, in particular on the basis of internal analyses and an audit report from the Court of Auditors, to refine the vision note entitled "Missions, vision, strategy" and continue to optimize its current functioning. Since taking office, I have urged the Management Committee and the management of the FAM to consider this issue as a matter of priority and to formulate concrete proposals for improvement taking into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. The first point in my introductory statement is the report of the Court of Auditors. It is obviously important to pay attention to the conclusions of this June 2020 report on the organisation and operation of the FAM. The Court of Auditors has examined whether the FAM meets and can meet the expectations formulated by the legislator in 2010, I quote: "A quick solution as to the right to compensation, including in the event of a medical accident without liability, to avoid legal procedures and their disadvantages (high costs, difficult insurability, defensive medicine, lack of prevention)". The Court of Auditors has found in this respect that, according to its analysis, nine out of ten victims of medical accidents do not use the procedure laid down by law. The limited number of applications does not allow for prevention. The Court of Auditors has also stressed the high cost of processing a case and states that a considerable number of opinions from the fund are contested in court. Finally, the Court of Auditors regrets that, on average, victims must wait four years to obtain an opinion from the Fund. In its recommendations, the Court of Auditors states that in recent years all the necessary operational measures have already been taken. However, it is stressed that it is still possible to save a lot of time at the various stages of the procedure, certainly during the initial phase of the procedure, in particular through a faster request for information, more targeted processing, well-founded requests. The Court of Auditors also points out that certain tasks of the FAM are sometimes impossible or very difficult to carry out in practice or offer insufficient added value, for example for opinions on liability for damages which do not meet the criteria of seriousness. Finally, the Court of Auditors recommends that the Fund Management Committee draw up a note containing a vision for the future of the Fund, as also announced in the INAMI Administrative Contract in 2019. I come now to the most important point today, namely the structural adjustment of the Medical Accidents Fund (FMO). On 2 April 2021, the FMO Management Committee approved a plan to improve the functioning of the service. This plan is based on two pillars: a concrete step-by-step plan to reduce the backlog in the processing of the files by using a temporary task force that strengthens the FMO's manpower, and a structural adjustment in the handling of existing and new files within the chalk lines of the current law. On 12 February 2021, there were 1,892 open files at the FMO for the reduction of the backlog. In view of the influx of files, the actual backlog was estimated at 1,592 files. The delay is largely explained by the difference between the large number of files submitted in the initial period and the very limited number of files that could be completed during the same period. During the period 2012-2014 about 2,500 files were submitted and only a small 300 files were completed. Since 2017, 600 files have been completed each year, which is more than the annual submission. Although the backlog is therefore shrinking, the pace of phasing-out remains too low to eliminate the delays accumulated at the start within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, additional resources are temporarily needed to increase production. For this purpose, a concrete plan was developed to eliminate the existing backlog in a period of 24 months from 1 June 2021. So today's debate really comes at the right time. For the majority of the dossiers, all the required documents are present. The treatment takes several steps: carrying out internal medical analyses, carrying out external expertise, drawing up advice and calculating compensation. In concrete terms, it is planned that the delay will be reduced on average by approximately 65 dossiers on a monthly basis during the period in question. The Roadmap will be the subject of a regular follow-up and monitoring by a task force manager specifically appointed for this purpose. A specific temporary task force under the direction of the task force manager will also be set up at the FMO alongside the 46 employees. The task force will be composed of doctors familiar with the evaluation of human damage, lawyers, as well as administrative staff. It is fully integrated into the FMO. Staff will, of course, receive adequate training and have clear guidelines. For the appointment of the task force manager, a consultancy assignment shall be issued. The implementation of the contract started on 1 June 2021. The task force manager shall be responsible for the operational and procedural organisation of the task force. He is the functional manager of the task force's staff. He steers and motivates that team and works in close interaction with the FMO management. The Task Force Manager shall also prepare weekly status reports, which shall in principle be delivered to the Minister, to the Management Committee, to the Administrator-General of the RIZIV and to the FMO Directorate. Where necessary, the task force manager identifies bottlenecks and suggests solutions to the problems raised. As far as doctors are concerned, a pool is being recruited from, among other things, recently retired doctors of the RIZIV and of the Social Security Office. Eleven doctors have already been active in this field. The task of the doctors is to carry out a medical analysis on the basis of the decision tree established by the Management Committee of the FMO, which directs the further examination of the dossier. This will initially assess the degree of severity and any indications of liability. I'll get back to you on that. It then examines whether there is a link to the provision of care. According to the plan drawn up, the pool of doctors will analyse 120 files per month. This means that a first medical analysis will be available for the majority of the overdue files in a year's time. On the basis of these analyses, the following process steps can then be taken and, where possible, advice given. Six administrative forces were also employed to support the administrative process. For this purpose, persons with a contract first work experience or candidates of Selor's recruitment reserve are called upon. By 1 August 2021, five lawyers will also be involved, recruited through the same procedures as the administrative forces. They will be responsible for drafting opinions and their justification. I now turn to the structural adjustment of the file process. On the basis of discussions in the Management Committee of the FMO, the procedures used so far are thoroughly adapted. It is based on the following five principles: the rapid and correct composition of the basic dossier, the use of a decision tree in which the degree of severity constitutes a policy criterion, the optimisation of communication with the applicant, the further computerization of the processes and the safeguarding of the legal claims of the victims. The new processes will be applied sustainably both for the delay and for the new dossiers. This should ensure that new applications are monitored more quickly and with better communication and that no further delays are created. Experience shows that a well-compounded basic file is a key element for a smooth settlement of a claim. From now on, the basic dossier shall contain the following elements: firstly, the victim's application form.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The questionnaire is sent by the FMO and can be completed by a doctor at the discretion of the applicant on behalf of the FMO. If the applicant is unable to provide the medical file or data on incapacity for work, the FMO will request them itself. The FMO may also request additional documents at any time. The application will be submitted by digital means in the short term. The FMO then makes an internal medical analysis in which the severity of the damage is a policy element. If the degree of severity is below the legal threshold, there is in principle no compensation due by the fund and the individual assessment of liability can be done on the basis of one-sided expertise. If the degree of severity is above the statutory threshold, it is necessary to determine whether there is liability of the care provider or of a medical accident without liability for any compensation by the insurer or by the fund. In the cases for which there are indications in the file, there will be a conflict of expertise. For the sake of clarity, it should be stressed that, in case of doubt, the most favourable route for the applicant will always be followed. Particular attention will also be paid to improving communication with applicants. The following initiatives are planned. In the future, I aim at the end of 2021, it will be possible for new applications to follow the state of the file digitally. Specific and proactive communication will be developed for the dossiers handled by the Task Force. Given the specific nature of the files, communication will preferably take place in writing or digitally. The written or digital exchange of letters, as well as the communication of the opinions, will pay extra attention to readability and empathic language. Although internal procedures have already been far-reachingly computerized, the FMO has proposed a number of adaptations to the current law. This should allow the submission of an electronic application through a standardised application template, as well as the electronic transmission to and from the FMO. As I mentioned earlier, in future applicants will be able to monitor the progress made in their file digitally. On the basis of the opinion of the Management Committee of the FMO, the government considers that the legal claims of the victims should be preserved. It is clear that the existing legal provisions do not form the basis of the problems facing the FMO for several years. For this reason, no major changes will be made to the legal provisions. The draft law on various provisions on health care, which is submitted in the short term, will include two technical proposals to enable digital exchange of information and clarify the time limit for appeal in the event of a dispute between the FMO and the civil court. As regards the financial impact of this plan, the cost of the task force is estimated at €3.3 million for 2021 and 2023. For 2021, an internal transfer of EUR 1.1 million is made in the budget of the Medical Accident Fund (FAM). The estimated impact is €1.8 million for 2022 and €0.4 million for 2023. Due to the accelerated resorption of the backlog, a temporary increase in the number of allowances awarded should be taken into account. Past experience shows that compensation has been paid to approximately 17% of the files processed. Taking into account these elements and an average allowance of EUR 150 000, an expenditure of about EUR 30 million can be expected. This expenditure will not be made until 2022. Here, Mr. President, as an introduction. I will listen to all the members' questions or comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u2	Thank you, Minister. Mr. De Cock will answer any questions he may have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u3	Minister, it is a good start that you have taken steps after I had an exchange of views with you in plenary on 12 November. We cannot escape the fact that the audit of the Court of Auditors, like the external audit that had already been carried out before, was dramatic and that a thorough reform was effectively necessary. What you are proposing here has two aspects: on the one hand, eliminating the backlog in the dossiers and, on the other hand, calling you a structural reform. With regard to the reduction of the deficit, which we are absolutely in favour of, the people have been waiting long enough for you to submit additional funds. I already have a first question about that. For the files that have been opened in the past, we note a cost of 11,000 to 12,000 euros per file. Will the new task force that you set up, with new people and therefore new costs, be able to increase the cost efficiency of those files? Secondly, you will overcome the delay, but a thorough reading of the audits also shows that the threshold for moving to the FMO has become too large and that the number of files is therefore decreasing. If we want a structural solution and want to ensure that patients who are victims of a medical accident can turn to the FMO, I think we need to go much wider than what you are proposing here. One of the conclusions of the audit is that the composition of the management committee results in delays in the dossiers, in decision-making and in the development of a vision. Why are you holding on to that? It may also be possible to set up a board of directors or a management committee with experts who have management skills and can fully fly into them. How come you don't deviate from that joint composition? This is one of the proposals contained in our resolution proposal, which was tabled on 10 June 2020. You are making a proposal here. You say that the recruitments for those responsible for the task force are already under way. What is the time to start? I suppose that will be very soon. You also said you'd be bringing in retired doctors from the FOD and the RIZIV for the task force. With a view to structural reforms, the audit identifies a problem with the expertise of the people who are attracted. This is something that we have already discussed in the context of other discussions on the FOD and the FAGG. How can you ensure that you will effectively attract the right profiles to man the FMO and women? I'll talk about the doctors, the lawyers and the administration. How will you make sure they stay there? When we look at the analyses, we see a very large turnover of staff, but also of expertise. It is therefore very important to also make sustainable investments and to work in the long term. You didn't mention financial management. However, that is also one of the points of pain that is cited. I have already mentioned the cost per file, but the recovery of certain amounts is not reported either. One simply does not know when what will be recovered. There's no accounting record of that. Will you also address this and ensure that these financial flows are much more transparent and can also be managed much better? You mentioned the insurers for a moment, but will you also join in the friendly medical expertise proposed by the Court of Auditors? Will a protocol agreement be concluded? Then I'll come to the management committee. The report states that in the past the Management Committee did not sufficiently take up its responsibility for adopting positions and drawing up guidelines relevant to the management and management of the FMO. How will you respond to this with the plan proposed here? When we look at the interviews, the report shows that the management committee is of the opinion that it has no regulatory power. Will you work on this? How will you ensure that the management committee is effectively a vision and that it is supported? With regard to communication, it is very good that you mention that there will be a jargon that is understandable to patients. That is absolutely necessary. You refer to digitisation, where one of the major problems seems to me to be the software program, which was also very expensive. Are we going to continue with this software program or are we looking for another solution? Are we starting from scratch? After all, that cost a lot of money, which was not always well spent. The FMO belongs to the RIZIV. Since Mr De Cock is here and you do not refer to it, we assume that it will continue to fall under the RIZIV. What do you think is the advantage of that? Why do people keep that piste? We have stated in our motion for a resolution that the information collection is not complete. Let me clarify that. I have spoken with a number of hospital ombud services and not all reports at the hospitals appear to be passed on to the FMO. They stay at the hospital sometimes. Wouldn't it be better to provide a national reporting platform under the FMO? In this way we would have a clear view of all the problems. The FMO could therefore be much better able to determine how serious certain issues are and how they are anticipated for patients. You mentioned an acceleration, but what is your target for paying the victims? In other words, do you tighten up the lead time of the files or will the current legislation remain in place? You mentioned one more basic case file. That seems to me to be correct. Finally, I come to the procedures and the terms of reference. If you're going to attract new people, to what extent can you establish those protocols and graft them on the expertise of the people you're looking for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u4	Thank you to the Minister and Mr De Cock for being here and proposing the exchange of views. It is very important for us to explore a number of things. I had written down a number of questions which have already been answered, for which I would like to thank you. I asked about the state of the art of the redrafting, about the steps that have already been taken, and about the analytical results and lines of action that have resulted and whether you already have a concrete timing for the reform plans in mind. Those cases have already been answered. I have a number of additional questions. Firstly, when the task force is completed again, will we not find ourselves once again in that delay? The procedures are being updated, bottlenecks are being noted and solutions are being sought. However, investments are being reduced, including staff deployment. Isn't that how we're gonna get into this situation again? Secondly, are the people who wait four to five years on average also being proactively informed about what is going on? That in itself is a very positive evolution. This will give them hope of getting better over time and will give them an insight into the deadlines. The new files will also be dealt with in time. Thirdly, you rightly focus on written and digital communication. That's important. You also say it will be accessible. As chairman of a special committee, I also have the experience that making information accessible is really not self-evident. How will that actually work? Locally it is often experienced that contact remains necessary, even if the information is made accessible. Is that contact still possible in such cases? My fourth question concerns the matter raised by the Court of Auditors. Is the friendly medical settlement a piste under consideration? Fifthly, I, too, like Mrs Depoorter, regularly receive reports from people who say that not all the information comes together. Can one think of a way to centralise all information in one point?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u5	Mr President, Mr De Cock, I had already spoken, particularly during the previous parliamentary term, about the Court of Auditors' report and the very worrying delay which had accumulated. Minister, I thank you for taking the initiative to organize this debate, which is to be reassuring, to hear the will to address this backlog. I am pleased to learn that there is a concrete plan to address the backlog of 1,592 cases. A large resorption operation is therefore necessary. According to the figures cited, since 2017, an average of 600 cases per year have been processed, more than the number of cases filed annually. There was obviously a need to find a solution to speed up the pace and update, which is why this new reinforcement team was created. Has a target been set to address this delay? When do you think the Medical Accidents Fund will have caught up with the historical delay it has been running from year to year? What will happen to this new backup team when the FAM regains a cruising rhythm? Like my colleagues, I am regularly questioned. And I am particularly annoyed by the fact that access to information is not easy for many administrations. Is there any work being done to simplify administrative procedures and centralise information so that users who wish to take information do not get lost in the process and have centralised information? Finally, I understand that the procedure will be simplified, and that the task force will be reduced. If it's reduced for more efficiency, it's so much better. But here too, I hope that this will not lead to further delays. Minister De Cock, are you fully reassured about the ability of this task force to absorb the backlog in case management? These are the few small questions that I wanted to ask you while thanking you for the initiative and the willingness to overcome this historical delay which handicaps users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation of this important and poignant dossier, as has been said in the media. I have some specific questions. You're saying there's a backlog because there's more files coming in than they can be processed. However, the question is why. I suppose the cause is a shortage of personnel. Or is there another reason? You also say that 56 employees were or will be recruited. Is this about full-time employees? Will they receive an indefinite or fixed-term contract? After all, the delay must be and must remain as quickly as possible. In order to pursue the objectives of the Fund, it must be accessible and be able to react quickly. One of the pain points is certain that little or no communication was made. I hope that this pain will be overcome by digitisation and perhaps by additional staff. The emphasis should also be on clear communication. In a particular environment in politics, this is also the way it is often used, but not everyone understands it. So it is really necessary that the communication is understandable. The first of the five points you raised, Minister, was the rapid and correct composition of the basic dossier. The applicant must submit the incapacity for work and the medical questionnaire himself, but if he cannot do so, the fund will do so. Why can't the fund do that immediately? Can't this intermediate step be avoided in order to save time? I would like to repeat my question which I asked a while ago. Will old files be reopened, too? If we remember the Panoreportage, we remember a lot of poignant cases. Will those files be reopened? Will there also be a possibility of faultless liability or a medical accident without liability, as it is called in the professional jargon? Is that gonna be taken, too? I come to the way people can appeal. I have my question in front of me, because I'm not very much at home either. The files may be reopened or revised. A claim may be made against the possible limitation period. A first argument is that the fund law based on Article 23 (contested rejection of a medical accident without liability (MOZA)) does not lay down any special limitation period for the specific action. A second argument is that the fund does not mention in its decision to reject a MOZA any specific period of time to bring proceedings against the fund. The third argument was that the decision of the fund to reject the MOZA is an individual decision based on a provision on the disclosure of administrative information. Are these three arguments included for reopening certain files? So much for our comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u7	Does Mrs Taquin wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u8	CD&V is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u9	Mr President, I will be very brief. Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. Thank you, too, to Mr De Cock, to assist the Minister in that. We can certainly agree with your proposals for remedial action. You are also aware of the problems that need to be addressed. That is a good thing. I did have a few more questions. You may have gone into it, but I've missed a little bit of your speech. The Court of Auditors states that victims of a medical accident only address the fund in one of the ten cases in order to obtain compensation. They therefore continue to choose to deal with the accident themselves with the health care provider or his insurer. The number of declarations has even fallen over the last five years. Do you have any idea how those nine out of 10 victims are going? Are they better off getting compensation or compensation than if they were working through the fund? My second question concerns costs. The Court of Auditors speaks from EUR 10,000 to EUR 12,000 per file, while 85% of the files are not even well-founded or admissible. What solutions are there to reduce that cost? For example, is digitalization being looked at? Could it cause the cost to go down? My final question concerns the recovery of healthcare providers and insurance companies. Apparently, they're unclear. We get the impression that in too few cases recovery is also effective. Could you give some more information on the recovery and the actions that will be taken to increase the numbers in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u10	Colleagues, I will ask my three questions because I have to go to another committee. Mr Hervé Rigot will replace me in the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u11	Mr Minister, first of all, what are the exact parameters and criteria used by the Fund today in the decision-making process to pay compensation? Secondly, I understand that a pool of doctors will now analyse the files, in which these doctors form, as it were, a form of control over the reporting of the treating doctors. Did I get that correctly? Are there other ways to monitor the reporting of operating doctors? If so, what does that check look like? Thirdly, what is the internal procedure in hospitals today when a doctor makes a crucial or another mistake? In other words, what could be the reason for doctors not to mention made mistakes deliberately, as the Pano-reportage showed? Do you have any idea? This was a number of questions from our group in order to better understand the dossier. Thank you, Minister, and also you, Mr De Cock, for your presence and for your explanations and for the answers that will undoubtedly follow. I will have left the room, but our associate will certainly follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u12	Mr President, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, I shall make some thoughts after hearing you. You are announcing a recovery, or an attempt to recover the backlog. What strikes me is that the objective for patients who are victims of a medical accident cannot be figures for figures. It's not like we have logistics management to do in an emergency. The quality of the processing of cases must be absolutely guaranteed. You're talking a lot about numbers; I feel like we want to make numbers for numbers to show that things are moving forward. Admittedly, the delay is not acceptable, and I would point out that the legal deadline is six months, and that it is in no way respected today. I am interested in the existence of a work and a clear view of the balance to be found between treatment taking place within a reasonable time and above all, ensuring that the processing of the files of the patients concerned is treated, rigorous and of quality. I would like strong commitments in this regard. We are not only in a pure and hard logistics management. Also on this subject, you announce the recovery of the backlog with consultants and a transitional task force. According to the information in my possession, although I may not have the full information, the staff is far below the established framework. It came back to me that the frame was filled at about three-quarters, that is, thirty people in a frame of forty. That's not new, actually. If the objective is to create a transitional task force but to re-immerse it in a situation where the bottom is largely understaffed, there is a risk of re-accumulation of the delay. So my question is: Where are we now at the staff level in relation to the framework? Is there a commitment to make staff adequate in relation to the missions to be completed? I know you need a minimum base to manage the files. The framework had, if I recall correctly, been originally established on this principle. Still at the staff level, you say that FPS doctors will complete the team, etc. But recognize that the whole problem of medical accidents and, above all, the analysis of these files requires rather sophisticated expertise! It is difficult for a physician who has never done a clinic or is not a specialist to manage complicated cases of internal medicine, hospitalization. Similarly, when you are not a specialist, it is difficult to see clearly in the face of an accident of a surgical nature. I could multiply to infinity. We know that we are sometimes confronted with major problems with "medical" accidents, in particular, medical incidents of an ophthalmological nature, ENT... All this requires advanced expertise. Today, external expertise is needed, especially since the framework is not filled at the staff level, which takes time because the experts go to the field and must be able to free themselves. It's a bit like in the courts, where sometimes you have to wait a long time before the medical expert returns his file. In addition, expertise cannot be pointed out until the last carat. That is not possible. There are experts in the foot, hand, knee, etc. In doing so, it would not be appropriate to have more in-house expertise on medical accidents so that external expertise can no longer be used only in cases that I call "last carat", in other words, for highly sophisticated expertise. In my view, this would facilitate the organization and, above all, the processing of cases. I am thinking here of the quality aspect. You will have understood that, for me, beyond the figures, quality remains a fundamental element. The second point that I would like to highlight and which you have not addressed at all is that nine times out of ten victims do not make use of the Medical Accident Fund. They are addressed to health care providers or the insurer. Another major figure is that more than four out of five cases are declared inadmissible or unfounded. That seems huge to me! Has there been an evaluation of the two components, namely how to ensure accessibility and understanding and support? Is there work with patient associations that could or should have been done in relation to victims on whether or not they are directed to the Medical Accident Fund? Secondly, is there an evaluation? What about this inadmissibility or lack of foundation for four out of five files? To carry out some form of audit or re-evaluation of these files would not, in my opinion, be uninteresting. I know that when the opposition says something, it sucks, but frankly, that figure hits me. He's terribly challenging and I think he's a problem. Maybe it's fair, but I think it's a collective duty to ask questions about the evaluation of patient and victim files. There is a third aspect that I would like to address. I do not go into all the specific points you mentioned (legal changes, etc.) Even if I do not think that is enough, that is why I come back to additional points. This third part relates to the legal system as it exists today. In the first approach to the file, do we take the time of the expertise? Is it possible to ask the question of an amicable remedy? Is it enough? If this is not the case, should questions not be asked, including possible changes to the legal framework? There is the Medical Accidents Fund Act, but there are also insurance laws. Should not certain regulatory or legal frameworks be amended to facilitate an alternative solution in order to promote this amicable remedy. Given the delays, the delays that can take place and the inadmissibility of four out of five cases, make sure that we have not missed out on an amicable settlement solution seems to me to be more positive for the victims than the current situation. These are four major issues that I wanted to address with you to go a little further than the presentation and the leads put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u13	Mrs Fonck, thank you. If no other colleague wishes to speak, minister, I will give you a moment to prepare your answers and arrange for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u14	I propose that Mr De Cock should reply because he has been an important actor in this area for many years and has played a very leading role in this reform plan. I will supplement certain issues if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u15	Mr Minister, I will pass on to you the question about the revision of the management contract. I'll come back to that later. Some speakers have looked at the origin of the delay. I think Mrs Sneppe made an allusion to that. Of course, a great deal of attention has been paid to this in the audit of the Court of Auditors. It is clear that the delay is due to the legal evolution of the FMO in recent years. It started as an independent institution. It was then transferred to the RIZIV. Since 2016, the fund has a management board. So we've navigated for six years without a command, without a compass, on sight. Of course, that left traces. As pointed out by the Court of Auditors, this has led to a backlog of around 2,500 files in 2012, 2013 and 2014. These aren't ordinary files. These are complex dossiers, as Mrs Fonck said. They ask for special expertise in the medical field. It is therefore very important to deal with the two pillars, as the Minister said in his introduction. Firstly, to eliminate the delay in the files, not numerically or anonymously, but in a high-quality way with attention paid to each dossier. The fact that there was a great deal of delay is due to the accumulation of the files submitted. The evolution of the number of files submitted was requested. Between 2015 and 2019 there were 600, 600, 500, 450 and 500 respectively. Covidyear 2020 has also influenced the statistics somewhat, there were 362 new files submitted in 2020. In 2021, we are already seeing an increase compared to last year. One in ten files ends up with the fund. This, of course, also has to do with the operation of the fund. Furthermore, it is difficult to determine which denominator has been used by the Court of Auditors to assess medical accidents, although medical accidents involving human damage. Of course there are more accidents in a hospital but these are not always medical accidents. We must pay attention to that. We have also recently asked Assuralia and a number of insurance companies whether this fund has an impact on the premiums, because that was also one of the objectives. The strange thing is that we cannot really answer that. It was one of the questions, I think from Mrs. Depoorter. So we will also have to sit with the insurers in order to carry out this process properly. I come to the extra resources, and I shall first deal with Mrs Fonck's questions. At the end of 2020, there were 52 employees and three unfilled positions. We're planning to hire staff for the temporary task force. You know the proverb that says, "There's only the temporary one that lasts." We'll see. In the meantime, ten doctors have been hired. We're going to hire six lawyers and administrative staff. Staff are expected to be engaged to carry out the evaluations and to draft the opinions. It is clear that patients do not expect a medical report in their box, but ask what most of you have asked, that is, to use a user-friendly and understandable language that guides them in the discussion and orientation of their file. They asked if the staff would be temporary. We will follow the evolution of the files as such. That's what we told people. That ten-doctor pool isn't primarily meant to analyze the files, it's meant to fine-tune them medically. One file introduced may consist of saying: "I have been operated on the knee but I still have pain and I think a fault has been committed." In this respect, it is difficult to say that we are going to start a file, a further reason to also change the procedure in this area and to ask the money of the fund that the patient, with the request, introduce a file prepared by the doctor of his choice - it may be a doctor-counsel of a mutuality or a general practitioner who would be compensated - to clearly describe the damage that was caused by the accident. Of course, it must be determined whether the accident is related to the care given. That's an important point. Now, if the first reason for the waste of time is the preparation of the file, it clearly cannot be blamed on the patient. This, of course, requires a search for documents, patient records. A patient record does not exist. I'll explain why. A patient file consists of different parts. Of course, there's medical imaging and the exhibits on the record. But for example, in the case of a baby's monitoring, its recording is not in the file. You have to ask, which also takes some time. Nevertheless, the first thing in the process is to improve the preparation of the file. Couldn't that be more cost-effective? The aim is, of course, that we look at the costs, but we must also set the costs as calculated by the Court of Auditors against the objective of the fund. This is of course an enormous amount of money when it is sold against the damage paid. If you sell it against the number of files, you will already get another amount. The question is what the cost of a file is. You are also asking for the qualitative treatment of the dossiers. That means looking at the medical, legal and technical files. Of course, investment costs have also had an impact on the cost per file. In any case, the aim is, of course, to work more cost-efficiently and, as some have said, to make maximum use of internal medical expertise and to use external expertise only when this is really necessary. When there is a case of damage, the common law requires that there be a contradictory debate. Is the threshold too high? I don't think so. The fund is easily accessible. There is, of course, a threshold in the law whereby the fund only compensates for the damage which is not everybody's job or professional activity, or where there is damage corresponding to an incapacity for work of at least six months. That in itself is a threshold. There are, of course, more files in insurance companies than there are files that meet the criterion of 25% permanent incapacity or at least six months' incapacity for work or a cumulation of the two. The Management Committee originates from the original legislation of 2010. It maintained the same structure, even after the introduction into the RIZIV. This can be discussed; I will not comment on it. That's more of a political thing. Mrs Depoorter said that the management committee has no regulatory powers. That's right, the Management Committee has no legal capacity to set standards and rules. Moreover, the Council of State would not accept that management committees should begin to lay down rules independently of the King, except in the case of small technical, specialist matters, but not on the substance. The management committee certainly has a vision too. I would therefore like to thank the Management Committee for the last few weeks and months in which we have worked closely together for the development of the action plan. It is well aware of its role and does not interfere in the handling of individual files. Indeed, no individual dossier is submitted to the Management Committee. It is concerned with the broad lines, which relate to the way in which liability is established and the damage can be calculated, the instruments to be used for the damage calculation, i.e. indicative tables or other sources and the way in which, among other things, the damage can be estimated. The Management Committee also monitors the handling of the files, as well as staff changes and IT developments. As far as recruitments are concerned, they have started. Why choose doctors from the RIZIV and the department? They are going to do an initial screening of the files for which no medical analysis has yet been carried out, the overdue files. We hope that we will be able to treat some 65 per month in this way. Those aren't simple files. In the meantime, we have had to digitize everything, because we cannot work with a paper file in covid time. Moreover, we had to do this through special programmes in a secure way, because it concerns medical data. The reception of files from the hospital or the internal and external exchange with experts and all interested parties is not done by e-mail or with a simple system. This requires secure instruments specially created for this purpose. The recruitments have started. Those doctors will perform a screening and check to what extent there is information about the damage, physical damage and the severity of the damage. That will be the basic policy criterion in the examination of the dossiers. For too long it has been thought that the fund's first mission was to establish liability or to give an opinion on liability. Nothing is more difficult than that, because one must, firstly, prove an error in the individual or collective sense, secondly, the damage and, thirdly, the relationship between the two. It is not always possible to get this information from a file, nor does it always know who has taken care of the patient. Therefore, the fund's initial attention should be paid to the reimbursement of the persons entitled to it, either in the context of liability or in the context of a MOZA. The Management Committee has a role to play in clarifying these concepts. I think it was Mrs Fonck who referred to the numbers. By the end of 2020, compared to the number of cases that have been finalized, it can be seen that 8% of cases have civil liability as a basis beyond the degree of severity, i.e. beyond 25%, or if death - of course, that goes without saying. About 10% are called MOZAs, so accidents without liability. The figures were requested in this respect, as well as on recovery. At present, approximately 8 million recoveries from insurers are under way. It is clear that every time we send an invoice to the insurers, it is challenged immediately. This is also the subject of litigation. The first recoveries were started in 2014. There is a huge delay in recovery. The Court of Auditors mentioned as a key point that the amount of recovery was not included in the budgets. It must not be in the budgets, it must be in the accounts. In the accounts, the amounts will of course be taken back. There are also discussions on the budgetary procedure - I refer to the Court of Auditors' report. It's going to be corrected, too. There were discussions with the Finance Inspectorate, among others. The accounting and financial management, to which Mr De Caluwe referred, is cleared and partly made transparent in the accounts. It was asked whether only the new files would receive information. No, the task force is about the past. The new dossier will apply to all the dossiers of the future, including, of course, the communication style that we will introduce. Of course, the information on the file will apply to both the old and the new files. I always hesitate with the word 'files', because behind every file there is human suffering. Digitisation is not contrary to customer friendliness. Contacts with patients will become possible. We are simply giving them the opportunity to remain fully informed about the state of play of their case. A problem that has been raised by several Members is the friendly solution, which the Management Committee has long considered. We also discussed this for a long time in 2017. Lovely settlement with an insurer isn't that easy. After all, it will have to be done in accordance with the principles of the Code of Justice, which means once again the classical legal procedures by means of a recognised mediator. In family law people are used to working with mediators, but not in the domain of human harm and liability. If better contacts could be established with the insurer... Unfortunately, we find a difference between the insurers in their willingness to cooperate and to accept a number of procedures. We are constantly referred to the existing procedures, which then have to be fully cleared up by law. That is not an easy matter at all. I have already answered the questions about digitisation. Why was the FMO transferred to the RIZIV? Some believe that the independence of the fund is compromised. I think there are more advantages than disadvantages: a small administration with 50 employees cannot, of course, maintain a HR service, legal service and IT service. I can't. Here's the scale advantage. There is no interference from the Management Committee in the area of health care professionals who would be subject to a procedure in the framework of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service or in the framework of procedures of the Medical Care Service. There is a clear shot between them, also in budgetary terms. Budgetaryly, it is not included in the social security scheme that was a clear demand from the social partners.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The question about incident reporting is important. Would it not be useful to have more communication about incidents occurring in hospitals? Most accidents occur in hospitals. This is an interesting domain. It's called the open disclosure. Is the physician obliged and obliged to provide information to the patient about incidents that have occurred? The answer to that is yes. There is one element that contradicts this. This is the insurance law, which, although it does not prevent the doctor from providing information, jeopardises coverage. Then they end up in a discussion. I can refer you to an interesting document recently published by an interesting gremium, in particular the Flemish Patient Platform, Assuralia, the KU Leuven, the Association for Nurses, Zorgnet-Icuro, the Order of Doctors and the Flemish Association for Chief Doctors. Together with the Chairman of the Fund's Management Committee, they have drawn up a framework for open disclosure. The reporting of an incident goes beyond just reporting that there is an incident. We also need to know what incident is involved and what information is available. First of all, open disclosure is an important issue where the necessary initiatives need to be taken. This is a first note that was also delivered to the Minister, I suppose. It is a framework, not a directive, to look from the patient's perspective, together with all the organisations of healthcare professionals, hospitals, doctors and insurers, to see whether better information can be achieved. This also refers to the role of ombudsmen in hospitals, to which Mrs Depoorter referred in her introduction. It is clear that the reason for it is important. When one has information about exactly what is going on, this shows respect for the patient. It also provides opportunities for feedback and creates confidence in the healthcare system. The concept of informed consent will, of course, also play a role. It is therefore an important document that has just been published. This must be taken into account, and it is likely that a number of cross-links with the Fund will also have to be established in this area. It was asked whether payments would be made more quickly. That's the idea. The estimated timing of the action plan to eliminate the backlog is two years. The task force manager is not the great legal specialist in this matter, but it is the person who is responsible for the rigorous follow-up and who should promote the progress of the files, of course, while maintaining the quality. Of course, we need to know where the bottlenecks are and where we need to be joined and strengthened. Hence the planned periodic reporting. We want to have a board table. This may seem somewhat abstract, but it indicates that progress is being made on the dossiers of the people concerned. To answer Mr Prévot's question, we will of course take the necessary steps, if necessary, to keep people within the Fund. Similarly, it is clear that information is needed to correctly refer patients. It is also planned to make available documentation for them. The model will be adapted to use appropriate language. A request was made for the possibility of reopening files. That's hard. Some files have been closed by now. If I remember the report, there was one file where there was indeed... I think it was Mrs Sneppe who referred to the legal case. Article 23 will indeed be the subject and has already been the subject of a legal analysis. With the approval of the Minister, this can be integrated into some kind of draft law. We have proposed to digitise the procedure in the short term. These are specific cases. Everyone has the image engraved on the retina of the child from the reportage. I cannot, of course, go into the substance of the matter. I can only tell you that in this case, the case has started with a criminal investigation into the caregivers. And the criminal investigation was ongoing. We took the position at that time. In order to avoid conflicting expertise, that file has been abandoned, but the suffering of those people has not been taken seriously. All the apologies for that, this shouldn't have happened. At least there should have been communication here, let's be clear about that. Mr. Warmoes asked what the parameters were. These are presented under several headings: the degree of civility and the question of attribution of responsibilities, which are the main parameters, as well as the link with health. In response to Ms. Fonck, the reason for the large number of files introduced is that most of them are related to the patient's state of health. Not all patients are in a state of operation. Previous comorbidities may cause complications. It is therefore difficult to distinguish between complications related to the patient's previous situation and a fault committed by a care provider. All operations are risky, as we know. In the case of this young child, however, it is not necessary to be a doctor to know that there was no previous problem. We are faced with difficulties, including in the case of health care organisations. As far as the quality of the file is concerned, I think I have already answered. Finally, the inadmissibility rate is not inadmissible, but unfounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u16	Mr President, Mr De Cock, you have been very full. I would like to thank you once again for your help on the entire course. I'm going to go back to a few political choices. After some reflection, but rather soon, we have said that we will not change the law. We assume that we are dealing with a problem of organisation, management, communication, which we believe to be soluble, provided that a proper transitional period will run until 2023. I do not rule out the re-launch of a debate on the fundamentals of the law, but we have not wanted to do so now. When I was Minister of Social Affairs 20 years ago, I was already involved in the initial discussions on this subject. These numerous discussions have led to this schedule. It is not so easy to put an alternative scheme next to it. We are trying to achieve success with this scheme by improving the process, management and organisation, as I have already said. There are practical arguments, which Mr De Cock gave, why the fund is part of the RIZIV. These practical arguments are very important. Personally, I also think it's not wrong there. It's independent there. That brings me to the management committee. There can be a debate on the management committee, which is, of course, an essential key to governance. However, we have not done so for the time being. Those present will know the composition of the management committee. It is quite broad and the Presidency is with two professors, lawyers specializing in medical law. There are also representatives of the government, employers, employees, insurance institutions, professionals, care institutions and patient organisations. It's a monthly meeting. As Mr De Cock has already said, the management committee obviously has no regulatory powers, but it is responsible for the translation and interpretation of legislation into daily policy. Are there any reservations about this? I believe it is no secret that there are relatively many absences. It could also be hoped that the active input would be more evenly distributed among those who are present. The active input often comes from certain groups and less from others. In principle, the debate could also be held on whether insurers within that management committee are both judges and parties. Is that the right forum for consultation? I honestly believe that, in this work in particular, it has proved to be successful and useful. The involvement of the Management Committee in the working group was very good, and there was a very constructive cooperation to implement this action plan. Out of pragmatism, we have decided to allow the management committee to continue to operate in the same way. We hope that the presences will become stronger again and that there will be continued active input from everyone. As Mr De Cock has said, the only thing we will do in legal terms is to include a few very practical issues in a draft of various provisions on health care. They are not unimportant to what we are doing now, but we also wanted, in today's presentation, to distinguish between mere improvement of the concept, which we believe is possible with existing legislation and more fundamental discussions. The question on open disclosure has already been answered in the affirmative by Mr De Cock. So open disclosure is more than just a conversation. We are being offered an interesting framework, which could give rise to further reflection, better practice and possibly better policy. That's important. I would like to comment on the timing. We started on 1 June 2021. Two years added means June 1, 2023. If we add three more months to the compensation, that is in a way a long time, but it is also an important delay. Mr President, that brings us, against our will, to the second half and to the end of the present legislature, which does not rule out the possibility of an interim evaluation. Of course, it is also explicitly intended to carry out this evaluation in the interim with the task force's manager and with the management. There are a number of general reservations which I would like to add. I think everything else has been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u17	Mr De Cock, thank you. Colleagues, I hope you have the desired answers to your questions. You know that you can reply and ask further questions. Do some colleagues wish to speak? First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Depoorter, who is present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u18	Mr Minister, I will begin with a proverb: what benefits candle and glasses if the owl does not want to see. You yourself indicated that you believe that it is soluble without any amendment to the law and that the delay will be overtaken by the end of the legislature. However, this is not the structural reform that the FMO and, above all, the victims deserved, this is an attempt to optimise its operation. That is meritorious in itself, but it is not what I expected when you announced an initial analysis in November. In December there was another analysis and in January you indicated that you would propose a major reform plan in March. The answer made it very clear that management management is a political decision. However, the audits and reports made it very clear that this is one of the major problems. Moreover, I think it is particularly important that, following the Court of Auditors' report itself, your predecessor pointed out that the broad composition of this management committee is delaying and restricts the vision that can be developed. You are in the government with your predecessor's party and that must have caused some discussion. In your explanation you also indicated that the mentality within that management committee is not always optimal, that there are absences and that the participatory element is sometimes lacking. However, you will optimize the existing problems. That is very special and very unfortunate. This is a really missed opportunity. You do not address the structural problems raised by the Court of Auditors or in the audit report. I don't see any solutions. Mr De Cock replied to the question of accounting and transparency. In your opinion, that has been cleared out, but how will you recover the amounts you are entitled to as an FMO? That's not cleared up. The procedures are under way, but I have not received an answer to the question as to how much I will have a clear view of the recovery in two years' time or in the interim evaluation. It's not just the FMO. It was the same with the Alimony Office. It is a fact that public institutions do not make the best use of these recoveries. However, it is tax money that can be used for the benefit of those victims. About the friendly settlement, you say it's difficult, but what will you do about it? Actually, I hear here that there will be no progress for the victims. You have a point about the subject of the RIZIV of hr and such. Why, however, should this be done under the RIZIV? The FMO can be perfectly incorporated into a FOD. Under a FOD that joint composition is no longer necessary. In my view, there is no answer, but you indicated that it is a political decision. So once again it is purple-green that advocates conductism. I didn't hear about the software package. What will happen to that? It's a hugely expensive software package that still doesn't work optimally. Will we start all over again? Will that be reformed? I am not an IT specialist, but I do not think it is easy to continue working with a package that does not answer the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u19	I thought Mr De Cock had said something about that. The cost was indeed one of the comments of the Court of Auditors. However, this cannot be compared with the insurance sector. The design of the FMO is quite different from that of an insurance company. If the law is applied, no compensation will be granted in about 90% of the cases. That's the price of the low threshold. By definition, one is not as efficient as an insurer in some respects. The use of expensive IT is difficult to avoid. I think all the procedures that had to be followed have been followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u20	As far as IT is concerned, the report is a bit out of line. We didn't get caught up either. IT is of course a constantly evolving whole, especially in the field of communication tools. I'm just gonna give you one number on the ratio. In the management budget of the RIZIV, the cost of information technology is 32%. At the FMO it is 19 %. With the RSZ it is 35 %. We have also reported this to the Court of Auditors. You are always talking about an external audit, but we have also done an internal audit. The Court of Auditors has come to strengthen us there, to bring a number of elements. The discussion here is about the extent to which the RIZIV is an insurance company. The RIZIV and the FMO are not insurance companies. We give advice, but we don't make decisions. An insurer decides. We give advice on liability, which can be contested. Hence the next discussion. When we recover, this is done on the basis of our opinion, which is again called into question. The whole law is based on that: not the patient, but the fund goes to the insurer. However, it has not been said that this is a won case or a piece of cake. We will then book the recovery accounts. We also have to write down a number of them, because they do give rise to disputes before judges. If I send you an invoice and you do not want to pay it, we will contest it and of course there will be an open discussion. I don't think this is typical of public services, but it's a very classic thing in many settings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u21	However, I am not only talking about recovery when opinions are contested, but also about periodic penalty payments. In that regard too, you leave thousands of euros. These periodic penalty payments, according to the report, amount to EUR 500 per day for one month in the absence of a timely response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u22	(...) We always have an answer, but then there is a discussion about whether that answer is adequate or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u23	Mr De Cock, you are working on taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u24	I've been working on taxpayers' money my whole career. And I think I've handled that very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u25	What you say, Mrs Depoorter, weighs rather lightly. Try to listen to Mr De Cock's answer. There may be a penalty payment in a court of law. If someone sends an answer, one cannot simply demand the payment of a penalty payment! Would you like to try to understand that before uttering frivolous accusations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u26	Maybe I'll rephrase it, because we won't agree. I started with the proverb of some benefits candle and glasses if the owl doesn't see and will. The Court of Auditors' report analyses very clearly that financial management at the FMO is not functioning optimally. You have an annual government budget of 23 million. My comment is based on the figures, it is not frivolous or intended as a vote. According to the 2018 Annual Report, 5.3 million is budgeted for staff and 17.6 million for the execution of the assignments. What amount do you set against compensation paid? That is actually the issue. You claim that the FMO is not an insurance institution. No, indeed, but I would like to remind you of the reason for the FMO's existence, which is to provide patients with access to accessible assistance, so that they should not have to follow these expensive legal procedures. You're shaking no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u27	There is one element, provided that there is a sufficient degree of damage. That's exactly the point. There is, however, a threshold for compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u28	There is a threshold to be reimbursed, but so is insurance companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u29	There is no insurance for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u30	I have the impression that you find this a very annoying discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u31	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u32	Mrs. Depoorter, you must try to stay on the case. You can say that you want the system to be completely reformed. We don't make that choice. We may disagree on this, but in the meantime the files of those people remain. Those people are gonna wait, and that has to be solved. If there were to be a completely new system with a completely new basic law and a new organization, perhaps elsewhere, then there would still be thousands of waiting people. Then that whole operation still has to be done. Otherwise, we would do something completely unacceptable both ethically and politically. We agree that this whole operation has to happen. In addition, you would not, I believe, do anything about creating a new basic law and a new institution. If that's what you'd do, you can defend it. However, you certainly have to stick to the facts, including the problem of recovery. I will not repeat everything that Mr De Cock has said. A distinction should therefore be made between files where compensation is possible and files where reimbursement is not possible. A distinction must be made between cases with and without liability. It should be noted that, especially in cases where recovery is not actually possible because there is no liability, it often concerns very large amounts. That also causes some disproportion in the numbers. These are all facts to be taken into account. My appeal is that you take these facts into account in a number of punctual criticisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u33	Mr President, Minister, we will not agree on everything. At the beginning of my speech, however, I said that I am very fond of the catch-up movement. If I have to be honest in the debates, it would be a good thing for you to be so. After all, you can make a perfect catch-up and at the same time prepare a major reform. The law does not enter into force until it has been approved. So you can work perfectly through a new management committee once the new law has been passed. However, that is a choice that you have made effectively. It is also a pity that the case of patients and victims who have had the courage to testify in the Pano reportage and which they have been suffering from for years is minimized to this day. They will be put in a different light. I'm having a hard time with that. After all, you both know very well that those who dare to talk on television are the tip of the iceberg. If there is another background, there are so many other files in which the victims are silently suffering and do not go to television with them. It is for those quiet files that we are sitting here, that we want to find a solution and make sure that those people are actually paid out if they are entitled to it. Whether you call it an insurance institution or not, if you support an organisation like the FMO, you should also support the victims. If independent audits reveal structural pain points, they are intended to be addressed in a structural manner. I'm sure it's a good thing you're making a catch-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u34	I don't want to keep arguing, but who's gonna minimize the problem? Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr De Cock, Mr What are we doing? We are trying to solve these people's concrete files more quickly. We are making an important budgetary effort and an effort in reorganisation and management. It is not for nothing that I started my introduction with a detailed reference to the Court of Auditors' report. After all, we are responding to a number of problems raised by the Court of Auditors. Saying that we do not answer that is simply not right. What are you saying? You may differ on the kind of answer we have to give, fair enough, but you cannot say that we are not answering. This is a deaf man's discussion. The question that is important is whether these people will finally be helped. If we can do this, the answer is yes. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u35	Mr Minister, these files that you will be catching up with will perhaps receive an answer. But the attractiveness and accessibility of the FMO, and a solution for future patients and victims, are not your concern here. You don't deal with the problem, you do an optimization at the most, that's all. I'm sure we'll come back to this. I deeply regret that we will have no solution for all these people by the end of the reigning period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u36	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor as one of the authors of this exchange of views. My reaction is not in the same direction as Mrs Depoorter's. I would like to begin by thanking you, Minister, for the answers: all the questions have been answered in a very concrete way, even if they are not always the answers we want to hear. What benefits candle and glasses if the owl doesn't want to see? Well, in my opinion, the owl has indeed seen when I hear this answer. Although we sometimes look at things in our own way, I can clearly see that there has been a look, and that there is a clear indication of why this fundamental reform has not been chosen at the moment, which you, Mrs Depooster, are calling for. It has been considered how we can take a first step forward, by making progress through management, organisation and procedures, in the interests of the victims. I have also heard apologies, which I believe were in order. At least it's a turnaround. It won't be the answer, but I think it's an important first step. The mid-term review you are announcing is also important. We must insist that it should also be on the table in Parliament. I won't finish with some benefits candle and glasses, but with the proof of the pudding is in the eating. After the mid-term review, we will be one step further. Perhaps there are effective elements in this to move on to a fundamental reform, as a number of colleagues have pointed out. It is certainly an important turnaround, but it is important that we see the mid-term review. That can reassure us and then we can continue on the slopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u37	Mr President, I will not stir up the debate again, but I agree with Mr Vanpeborgh: let us work on an annual exchange of views. Let us meet again at this time next year to assess how far the backlog has been reduced. This does not, of course, alter the fact that structural measures can also be considered in the meantime. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u38	I thank Mr. Cock for his presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u39	Mrs Van Camp, the transition to a 100% implementation of IFIC was discussed between the social partners in the 330 Joint Committee. A new collective agreement was concluded on 31 March 2021 on the introduction of a new wage model for the IFIC Federal Health Service in the private sector. That Agreement will apply from 1 July 2021. As from 1 July 2021, those nurses may choose whether or not to join the IFIC system and to be paid in a new IFIC scale, on the understanding that the introduction of the new scale cannot in any way lead to a reduction in salary. The IFIC Specialised Nursing Function Codes include the following wage components: the fireplace or place of employment allowance, the job complement, the job allowance and the title and/or competence premium. If, therefore, the nurse with an approved title and/or competence opts for an IFIC scale, he or she loses the right to the premium because that premium is included in the new scale. At present, a specific working group in the tripartite consultation with the social partners is examining possible improvements to the IFIC system, including the problem of special professional qualifications and special professional qualifications. The working group is currently examining, as a matter of priority, how the legal recognition of additional specialisations in the nurse profession can and should be translated into an additional valorisation of those nursing specializations, without questioning the IFIC job classification itself. For the federal health services of the public sector, discussions between the social partners on the implementation of IFIC are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u40	Minister, I think that is a strange answer. The French-speaking press recently reported an announced strike because of the loss of wages and now you say that there is guaranteed no loss of pay for those concerned. Then I thought I understood from your reply that discussions are under way on improvements to compensate for the loss of wages. Nor is it clear to me when this discussion will be concluded. Will that be timely before the introduction of the measure in question? And what will be the consequences if it is not yet clear whether solutions have indeed been found to avoid loss of wages? Can nurses still opt for the sure old system and then, as soon as an arrangement has been found, switch over? I hope that you will communicate quickly with the people on the ground, because there are a lot of questions about this at the moment. It is important that we pay the health care staff, especially those with a special professional title, quite correctly. They must be properly rewarded for their additional efforts. So there's a real problem on the ground right now. Your answer to me was not 100 % clear. I understand the arrangement hasn't been completely knocked off. I hope for better and clear communication to the people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u41	Mrs. Gijbels, you're asking about the impact of the cyber attack, among other things. The hospitals connected to Belnet's network have indeed been hampered by the attack. Hospitals and primary care using the online services of the eHealth platform have also felt consequences of the cyber attack. For the most critical services, business continuity plans have been published on the eHealth Status website. These plans describe the actions to be taken for each service and target group in the event of incidents. Due to appropriate measures taken by the eHealth platform, vaccination centres have continued to use the reservation application to vaccinate individuals against COVID-19 in accordance with the invitation or appointment and to charge the information of the administered vaccination in Vaccine Network. To preserve that functionality, the external accessibility of the reservation application to book new appointments has been interrupted for a short period of two and a half hours. Luckily, the incident did not have a negative impact on the vaccination. What was the impact on eHealth? The attack disrupted access to the services of the eHealth platform. This led to longer response times and a short period of unavailability. With the transitions to the Disaster Recovery Data Center, the eHealth platform managed to make critical services quickly available again. For other eHealth services, the picture was different, depending on whether the service itself is connected to the Internet via Belnet or via another Internet service provider, and whether the service should use other services accessible via Belnet. Users of the eHealth services were kept informed about the evolution of the problems via the website eHealth Status and Twitter. You're asking me what the worst case scenario is when a similar attack would target hospitals specifically? DDoS attacks aim to make the Internet services of the endorsed institutions unavailable. If such an attack were to target a hospital and the internet connection would not be available, the external communication of the hospital would no longer be possible. Internal systems within the hospital can continue to function. Systems and applications that have to process data that they need to obtain via that Internet connection will not be fully usable at that time. You then asked what protective measures were being taken. Like other sectors, the hospital sector is also sensitive to the impact that a successful cyber attack could have. In order to provide an appropriate response, the sector has already organised itself before the outbreak of the corona crisis in order to draw up and publish a list of minimum security measures. This list is based on an international standard, ISO 27001, and is regularly updated by data protection officers. At the outbreak of the corona crisis, the eHealth Platform and the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium (CCB) made arrangements to provide services to hospitals to help them organise their information security. This will work both with an early warning system, alerting hospitals when there are indications of a threat or attack, and with general warnings to ensure that hospitals quickly receive information on ongoing incidents or possible vulnerabilities. To help the different hospitals and labs with their information security, the FPS Public Health, Sciensano and the eHealth platform organise workshops focusing on awareness campaigns and incident response planning. For critical eHealth services, the eHealth platform, as mentioned, has developed business continuity plans published on the eHealth Status website in collaboration with the various actors and software houses. This can limit the impact on the health care provider and the patient for most incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u42	Minister, digitalisation can help us greatly, especially in the area of health care, but it also makes us much more vulnerable. An important theme is the equipment connected to the network. Another important theme is the sensitive patient data. Cyber criminals can use this to put pressure on people, for example, by threatening to harm their insurability. To what extent are EU funds earmarked specifically for cybersecurity in the context of the relance to the digitalisation of the health sector? To what extent have the weaknesses of the system been identified? Are they all covered? Is there a regular screening of the hospital sector? Are there any reports on that? If so, are they publicly available or are they planned for the future? To what extent does networking between hospitals create additional vulnerability? I propose that I submit a new question so that I can get more detailed information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u43	My policy cell has read with attention the study Evaluation of guidelines and tools among polymed 75-plussers, to which you refer. This is a study issued by the Independent Hospital Funds on April 28th. The study indeed confirms that there is still room for improvement in the use of medication in the elderly. The Independent Hospital Funds advocate a better follow-up of chronic patients by a coordinated first-line team, while respecting the patient's free choice. This requires good communication between the general practitioner and the home pharmacist so that the patient receives the right advice and can be supported with a medication schedule or in case of polymedicine a medication review. According to the Independent Hospital Funds analysis, 85% of the population studied of polymed 75-plussers has a shared pharmaceutical file. However, only 30% of these patients have an effective medication review. The tools are already there, but there is certainly room for further implementation. The problem of polydrugs among 75-plussers once again stresses the importance of integrated care across the lines. The further ageing of the population will increase multi-morbidity and complex care issues. Since 1 January 2018, twelve pilot projects have been active in Belgium focusing on integrated care for chronically ill, with the aim of streamlining care. Each project has an action point to promote medication reviews, for example by sending out newsletters, but also by organising trainings. They are also supported by the general pharmacists' association. In our digitized world, electronic data exchange is a must. Electronic sharing of information is also very important when it comes to medicines and polypharmaceuticals. The VIDIS (Virtual Integrated Drug Information System) project, which runs and is coordinated by the RIZIV, does a solid job in this area. It focuses on effective and efficient data and information sharing, covering all aspects of the medical treatment, to support a smooth, multidisciplinary collaboration in the interests of the patient. The RIZIV coordinates this promising project that better informs patients and contributes to a high quality of care and smoother multidisciplinary collaboration. I will therefore continue to support the further steps in this project. It is also important to further sensitise the prescribers. In 2019, clinically active general practitioners received an individual feedback on prescribing behaviour within their practice regarding medicinal products, clinical biology and medical imaging. By means of quality indicators and a benchmark with other general practitioners' practices, general practitioners were thus made aware of their prescription behaviour. In addition, a reflection and one or more key messages were provided for each theme. A separate chapter was devoted to the use of medicines in the elderly. Originally, a new feedback for the general practitioners was planned with regard to the 2020 dates. However, the covid crisis seriously disrupted healthcare delivery in 2020, with an impact on several quality indicators. The dates of 2020 are probably not a good parameter for the usual care in general practitioners' practices. Therefore, we opt to provide feedback with respect to the 2021 or 2022 dates. Nevertheless, caregivers are currently being sensitised in several ways with regard to appropriate drug use in the elderly. For example, the BCFI, the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information, provides e-learnings that focus specifically on the use of medicines in the elderly. Both medication monitoring and the rational use of medicinal products in the population concerned are explained in detail. These e-learnings are accredited for both doctors and pharmacists. From BelPEP (Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform) attention is also paid to the appropriate use of psychoactive medication in the elderly. The communication plan Psychofarmaca 2021-2023 aims to make care professionals widely aware of the appropriate and rational use of psychopharmaceuticals. In addition, BelPEP looks at how to work closely with the mental health care networks of the elderly, in order to make it possible to discuss the appropriate use of psychoactive medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The issues you mention about communication between healthcare providers are, of course, entirely justified. The more communication, the better the patient's care can be handled. However, progress can be made in guiding the medication schedule and the medication review. You know that, according to the current legislation, the pharmacist will not intervene in the prescription behaviour of the doctor. That's not the point. However, consultation is appropriate to address certain polydrugs, especially in case of medication from the list of undesignated medications for elderly patients. The pilot projects are a very good thing. Of course, we will not be using a pilot project in a structural way. A pilot project is intended to result in a structural solution. The profiles reported to the general practitioner could also be reported to the specialists, because by asking for certain medication, patients sometimes slip through the loopholes of the network. Finally, there is still a great deal of work to be done in the area of sensitisation for the reduction of psychopharmaceuticals and sedatives. We must not underestimate the number of traumas caused by drug seizures in older patients. Further communication and the real elaboration of the royal decision on psychopharmaceuticals, approved in the context of the resolution on mental health care, is certainly a matter for discussion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u45	Minister, I tabled this question following a petition from the non-profit organisation Think Pink and the UZ Leuven for the reimbursement of scalp and foot cooling in chemotherapy. I would have liked to know what the vision of your cabinet was. Will you answer the question of reimbursement? To what extent are you prepared to investigate the question? Has a cost-benefit analysis been carried out yet? Did you consult with representatives of the non-profit organisation or the UZ Leuven to repay scalp and foot cooling during chemotherapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u46	Minister, I would also like to relay the action taken by the Think Pink association with a group of sympathizers and patients and the UZ Leuven to appeal to INAMI and mutualities to take into account the reimbursement of the cooling of the scalp, feet and hands during chemotherapy. Studies have shown the effectiveness of this treatment, which could significantly limit or reduce one of the most visible side effects of chemotherapy, i.e., hair loss or alopecia. One can imagine that it is a difficult thing to live in addition to the disease. Minister, is there any reflection on this in your department? Has INAMI ever had an opportunity to look into this issue? Could this reimbursement be taken into account since it is already the case in other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u47	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u48	Mr President, I will answer the three parallel questions together. In some hospitals in our country, a cooling of the scalp with a cooling helmet is proposed during chemotherapy to reduce or prevent hair loss resulting from treatment. The underlying reasoning is that cooling results in a reduction in the diameter of the blood vessels of the scalp, which reduces the transition from chemo to the root of the hair and damages them less. The scientific evidence of the technique is variable. It seems that the chances of success vary from patient to patient and are, among other things, highly dependent on the type and dose of chemotherapy administered, as well as the type of device used to cool the scalp. In some treatments, scalp cooling seems to prevent hair loss in more than 70% of patients; in others, chances of success are well below 50%. Even in treatments with good chances of success, scalp cooling is never a guarantee of maintaining the hair. In addition to the cooling of the scalp, that of the hands and feet by a type of ice has recently been tested in order to avoid nail changes and tingling in the hands and feet after chemotherapy. However, the scientific evidence for this technique is even more limited. Compulsory health insurance currently only reimburses the purchase of a wig and not the cooling of the scalp. This technique is not available in all hospitals. The scientific evidence of these techniques must therefore be thoroughly investigated before I can consider the structural inclusion of reimbursement in compulsory health insurance. We have indeed received the petition from the non-profit organisation Think Pink and UZ Leuven, in which they request the refund. However, the corona crisis has prevented this, but I have asked the RIZIV to invite the non-profit organisation and its representatives to share their views and knowledge on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u49	Minister, the most important message is that you will discuss this and have the matter examined. The non-profit association stands up for cancer patients who go through a very difficult period in their chemotherapy treatment. Preventing hair loss can contribute a lot to the patient's comfort. I fully agree with you that an evidence-based investigation must be carried out before the refund is made. Perhaps it is time to look at this thoroughly and evaluate it. You mentioned the covid crisis as a delaying factor, but that crisis is also an accelerating factor for the serious cancer diagnosis that awaits us. We better be prepared to help our patients as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm glad for the patients that you're continuing the study. If it is confirmed that the risk reduction of hair loss is real following the application of this cooling, I am pleased that you can then consider a refund. I am sure that we will all pay close attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u51	Minister, I am also pleased to hear that you will follow up the dossier and consult both UZ Leuven and Think Pink, so that they can share their views and, above all, their knowledge with you. It is indeed important that decisions are made on the basis of scientific insights. If there are major differences between patients, we need to find out where these differences come from. I hope that this can increase the comfort of patients who need chemotherapy. Thank you for your hopeful answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u52	Dear colleague, this is the so-called "voedingsdriekhoek" in Dutch, the inverted food pyramid. That of the Flemish institute Gezond Leven was published in 2018 and indicates what can be consumed the most - fruit, vegetables - and the least - animal fats and proteins - which must be completely avoided - alcohol, processed products rich in sugar and salt - or even superfluous products, classified in the "restgroep". This pyramid is very explicit and looks good at foods of plant origin, which goes in the direction of a healthy and sustainable diet. It is widely recognized in Flanders. Elsewhere in Belgium, Gezond Leven also communicates in French. The active food pyramid of the Institut Paul Lambin, used in the French-speaking part of the country, represents the different categories of foods to consume most at the base of the pyramid, towards those to consume least at the top of the pyramid. It largely translates the same ideas as the Flemish institute Gezond Leven, with a more classical graphic representation. These two pyramids coexist in Belgium and this is no problem. In addition to the pyramids that you refer to in your questions, there is also the Food Epi of the Higher Health Council (SHC), with five key messages: at least 125 g of complete cereals, 250 g of fruit and 300 g of vegetables per day, legumes at least once a week, 15 to 25 g of nuts per day and a limit on salt intake to a maximum of 5 g per day. These key messages stem from the new food recommendations for Belgium, which have been the subject of scientific consensus at Belgian level. The food spike and food recommendations reinforce the two pyramids, without any contradiction. I am not sure that the definition of a single pyramid in Belgium is a priority in terms of nutrition policy, if each part of the country is included. Initially, this was one of the objectives pursued during the drafting of the food recommendations of the Higher Council of Health, but the idea was set aside since the food pyramid of the Gezond Leven Institute was widely disseminated. I think it is essential that the federated entities look in the same direction, following the food recommendations of the Higher Health Council and implementing policies aimed at promoting healthy and sustainable food at the population level, with the support of the federal level. Here are some thoughts on the basis of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do agree with you. The priority is indeed that each part of the country should be there and that, in the end, consumers should have the same readability, whether in the North or in the South of the country. I asked you because Test-Achats felt that this different approach to the food triangle depending on the language region could eventually cause confusion for the consumer. That's why Test-Achats called for a single model. Mr Minister, I obviously wanted to confront your remarks with what had been pointed out as an anomaly by Test-Achats. Thank you for your clarification and your will. I understand that it is not a priority if each part of the country finds itself there, as is evidently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u54	You refer to a study carried out in France on 158 beverages sold in the retail sector: the application of the Nutri-Score system. The idea is not to review this system, which works very well to show that the types of products in classes D and E are not ideal in contrast to what the consumer might think of a fruit-based product. The fact that nutritional and/or health claims are found on these types of products while they are rich in sugars and calories is not ideal. Nutrition and health claims are regulated by European Regulation No. 19124/2006. The restriction of claims for products rich in salt, sugar and/or fat is part of the European Commission's (EC) Farm to Fork Strategy which covers, inter alia, the development of nutritional profiles and a nutrition labelling system on the front, such as Nutri-Score. The possibility of linking these two systems is one of the avenues which will be examined by the EC in order to draw up the proposals which it is expected to submit at the end of 2022. In the meantime, EFSA has accepted the Commission's mandate on nutrition profiles and nutrition labelling systems on the front. EFSA is due to deliver its opinion by March 2022 and will hold a public consultation on the draft opinion by the end of 2021. The Commission's Joint Research Center will update the literature review on this subject. The Commission is currently preparing the terms of reference for studies, which will serve as the basis for its impact assessment (impact assessment). It will then have to select the contractor who will be responsible for carrying out this study, which should take one year. There will also be a more focused public consultation and consultation for stakeholders and Member States. The Commission intends to finalise the impact assessment in the first half of 2022 and, on this basis, draw up its proposals in the second half of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u55	Minister, thank you for taking a snapshot of the situation. I wanted to relay the wish of this consumer association about the Nutri-Score system, which works quite well even if it has its shortcomings. Thank you for clarifying the situation and clarifying things about the next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u56	Question No 55017459C by Mr Denis Ducrame is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u57	Mr. President, Minister, ADD/H, which is a attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity, is a neurodevelopmental disorder that can occur at different stages of life. It is characterized by problems of concentration or impulsivity, which can cause school, psycho-affective, social or professional problems, whether you are a child or an adult. The Higher Health Council (SHC) has recently addressed the issue of adults with ADT/H and has made several recommendations. Among these, they consider it necessary to direct adults with AD/H to mental health care specialists, i.e., second-line or third-line care, while the general trend is to leave diagnosis and follow-up to general practitioners. Second, the CSS believes that methylphenidate, a psychostimulant used in the treatment of this disorder and reimbursed for children, should also be reimbursed for adults with TDA/H. The current age limit for reimbursement is between 6 and 17 years. Methylphenidate would thus provide a better living environment for people with Methylphenidate, whether they are children or adults. Minister, have you been aware of the recommendations made by the Superior Council of Health? Are new initiatives being considered for the treatment of TDA/H in adults as a result of this SSC study?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u58	Mr President, I have indeed taken note of the recommendations made by the Higher Council of Health concerning attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity (TDA/H). With regard to the points relating to the drug approach to the management of attention deficit disorders, I have instructed the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products (CRM) to initiate a review procedure for medicinal products already included in the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products. This will allow for an assessment of the reimbursement criteria and a possible modification of them. Of course, I cannot yet say what specific recommendations will be followed or not followed. They will all be subject to this review procedure and, on the basis of the conclusions – based on reliable and reasoned data on the basis of objective and verifiable criteria – I will make decisions for this whole class of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products. In addition, for non-reimbursable proprietary medicinal products, I have asked the CRM office to contact the firms responsible for these specialties in order to stimulate them to submit a refund application to the CRM, so that an evaluation can be carried out and I can finally make a decision on the reimbursement of these specialties. As part of the BelPEP (Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform) platform, my services have developed, in collaboration with many experts, a website www.trajet-tdh.be, which aims to offer an ideal care path for children, adolescents and young adults with problems of attention, impulsivity and/or agitation. Whether you are a parent, teacher, doctor, PMS agent or therapist, all concerned can find on this website practical information based on a scientific basis. With regard to support programmes and training for multidisciplinary teams, no short-term initiatives are planned. My services are analysing the recommendations of the CSS opinion on this subject, in order to see what actions could be taken in the future to further improve the management of this disorder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the practical information you were kind enough to call back at the end of your answer. I note two elements of satisfaction. First of all, the fact that you have instructed the Commission to refund medicinal products, in any case for reimbursable proprietary medicinal products, to take stock of the criteria for reimbursement and others, which will enable you, on the basis of reliable conclusions, to take an attitude. Secondly, I note the fact that, for non-reimbursable proprietary medicinal products, you have proactively invited organizations to submit a refund application so that these specialties can follow the standard scheme with a view to a possible refund. As it stands, I am very satisfied with this answer. Of course, I will not fail to follow the development of this dossier, with the hope that these patients will get a refund for these specialties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u60	Minister, like my colleague, I thank you for your answer and for your open mind on this issue and for the recommendations made by the Superior Council of Health for the reimbursement of non-refundable and reimbursable proprietary medicinal products. But I would like to stress two points which have not been addressed and which seem to me to be just as essential. Firstly, I think that today we would be taking a giant step by communicating correctly on the TDA/H. In fact, we are all too often talking about hyperactives and in so doing, we only highlight the agitation side, while there are next to it other cognitive problems of attention such as impulsivity, hypersensitivity etc. These disorders are detrimental to these people, both in their academic and professional spheres and in their private lives. They often experience incomprehension, low self-esteem, and a feeling of chronic underperformance, and even school phobias among children. Secondly, I call on you to address this issue in the Interdepartmental Health Conference because it would allow us to provide comprehensive answers to the question of care for children and adults, especially when we know that two thirds of TDA/H children will still be cared for when they are adults. This would therefore enable measures to be taken in consultation with the federated entities. In fact, there is not only the question of reimbursement of care but also all the questions relating to prevention, detection of TDA/H in schools or training of front-line professionals. It's a small call that I'm allowing you to make, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u61	The questions relate more or less to the same problem and are in any case faced with the same basic problem. It concerns the fact that, in a judgment of 16 March 2017, the Constitutional Court ruled that those who performed psychotherapy on 1 September 2016 but did not fulfil the conditions of the acquired rights could continue to work without limitation, pending transitional measures that would be laid down by the legislator to restore the established unconstitutionality. That unconstitutionality, which you also refer to, was therefore about the law of 4 April 2014, which established a legislative framework for the exercise of psychotherapy. My administration does receive regular questions about the application of the acquired rights and the practice of psychotherapy. She also receives complaints that are dealt with by the provincial medical committees. The Flemish provincial medical committees in 2019 and 2020 delivered 11 files to the public prosecutor for the unlawful practice of psychotherapy. On the Walloon and Brussels side, 5 dossiers were dealt with. The title of psychotherapist is not protected today. Anyone can wear this title, but the practice of psychotherapy is described in the law on the performance of the health professions as a specialized treatment in mental health care. So we know the problem. The administration has been asked to make proposals, not only to remedy the situation created by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but also to prepare a legal framework for the exercise of psychotherapy, building on the opinion of the Federal Council for Mental Health Occupations established in 2020. In addition, you asked if the practitioner should somehow inform his patient that he belongs to this group. The patient will be able to evaluate the nature of the care provided by someone using the portfolio. After all, the law on the quality of the practice of health care, or simply the quality law, requires that every healthcare professional maintains such a portfolio in which the training and expertise acquired is proven. This is a portfolio that can be submitted to patients upon request. The same applies to the practitioners of psychotherapy, and this will ensure that the patient can make an informed choice within the landscape of health care professionals and therefore within the mental health care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u62	In any case, Minister, I welcome the fact that you will create a legal framework for the practice of psychotherapy, which is absolutely necessary, and that you will take transitional measures into account. Of course, it is not the intention to exclude psychotherapists who work in schools and evidence-based from the practice of psychotherapy, but the patient should always receive scientifically-based support. With which I find it difficult, you say that the patient can find out through the portfolio whether or not his psychotherapist meets that scientific education. In doing so, we assume that any patient can do that research, do it thoroughly and interpret it correctly. I think this is taking a risk after all. I believe that a patient should be able to find out clearly and very quickly whether his or her care provider is scientifically trained and whether he or she is undergoing further training. Finally, you have not really answered that, but in the reform of the mental health care that you are doing, I think that if that scientific framework of education and training is fulfilled, we should be able to incorporate psychotherapists into that mental health care and into that great need that exists today. We have often talked about the fact that we have provided the resources, but we will not be able to spend them because we do not have enough care providers. Perhaps that is an element to take into account in your reform plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u63	Mr. Chairman, the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit was created pursuant to the Palliative Care Act of 14 June 2002. This unit is composed of representatives of the three palliative care federations, the various mutualities as well as external experts. Its mission is to regularly assess palliative care needs and the quality of responses. A report containing these findings is prepared every two years and presented to the House. The report of the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit for the years 2017-2020 was recently transmitted and studied by my colleagues. It will soon be sent to the House and published on the FPS Public Health website. In addition, small working groups in the cell are required to deepen certain aspects of palliative care, such as the theme of intermediate care (mid-care). The conclusions of their work, approved at the general meetings of the cell, were also reported in 2020. It has also recently been forwarded to my office and has been carefully examined. My firm will consult with the cell and administration in the coming weeks to see how priority needs and recommendations can be translated into practice. As part of a call for projects for 2021 launched by the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE), the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit proposed the two study topics you mentioned, namely middle-care and palliative status. Both topics were included in the KCE work programme. KCE has therefore included in its study programme a study on palliative status and the establishment of intermediate care structures for palliative patients. This study will be launched in the first half of 2022 and the results will be available in the course of 2023. In order to start palliative care on time, advance care planning (ACP) is very important. In this process, the health care provider analyses with the patient expectations and wishes for future care. This dialogue will allow the patient to be more satisfied with the care and the quality of life will improve considerably. Several initiatives have already been taken to ensure the early deployment of palliative care to promote advance care planning and to disseminate the guidelines widely to professionals. I'll mention four of them. First, an incentive will soon be created by providing a lump sum fee of €90 for the general practitioner to ensure the establishment and monitoring of the CAP in patients identified as palliative using the Palliative Indicators Care Tool (PICT). Second, the use of TIP will contribute to the early identification of palliative patients. This proposal was approved by the Insurance Committee on 30 November 2020 and is now continuing the publication process in the Belgian Monitor, after which the proposal can enter into force. Thirdly, on 30 November 2020 too, the Insurance Committee approved a new multiannual framework for funding key partners within the EBP Network, i.e. KCE, WOREL, ebpracticenet, Minerva, Cebam, CDLH. Fourth, the dissemination of guidelines and other EBP sources is one of the pillars of the network. ebpracticenet makes the point of care information available to healthcare providers via a digital platform, mainly in the form of concise summaries of guidelines or other EBP sources that can be used directly in consultations. The current offer contains both a fact sheet on early care planning, referring to the Pallialine 2014 directive and a fact sheet on palliative care (KULeuven 2020 guidelines). In addition, WOREL, the working group developing front-line recommendations, is currently supporting the development of guidelines for Pallialine's palliative care for heart failure. These guidelines will be finalized in 2021 and submitted for validation to the Belgian Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (Cebam). A point of care sheet of these guidelines will also be made available via ebpracticenet and after validation. In addition, in 2020, discussions were initiated between the Cebam and Palliaguide as part of a possible validation or certification of Palliaguide's practical guidelines, which would allow an extension of the offer on ebpracticenet. Fourth, the Public Health FPS is working with the Chancellery to develop an advance care planning campaign. It should be launched before the end of the year. A budget of €290 000 has been allocated for the organisation of this campaign, the aim of which is to make people aware of their goals of life and care and to discuss them with their relatives and doctors. The goal is also to raise awareness among general practitioners to discuss this with their patients and to encourage them to consider their future health and care in relation to what they would like to see later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u64	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. Mrs Fonck, allow you to judge this one and intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u65	Mr President, the aim is not so much to judge but above all to try to move the lines. Minister, I hear your answer. I regret that you do not address the central issue for which I do not even see any prospects open. The reality today is that the number of approved beds that have been set and that have been limited for years by the federal government is problematic. We have a societal evolution, a change in health care and at the patient level. The number of beds is simply insufficient. Waiting lists are important. There is a permanent rejection of a number of patient care and this will be all the more so when we are going to accentuate the vision of an earlier deployment of palliative care, of the advance care planning but also of the middle care, as many points as I support. Every time I ask this question, I'm told that palliative care units and approved beds are expensive. But this needs to be seen in a health vision and taken into account in all current debates. The cost is really a miscalculation because the development of more palliative care beds would also allow other savings with patients who are at the end of their life, or who are hospitalized in acute services with sometimes high costs, for complementary examinations or treatments that are no longer necessarily justified. There are also re-hospitalizations of patients who are at home, in sometimes dramatic situations, who are seen at night or on weekends by a on-call physician who does not know them and who sends them back to the hospital because there is no other possibility. If these patients were followed up in palliative care, this would not happen. There are returns to the home that are not sufficiently prepared, resulting in returns to the hospital. All this costs, but acknowledge, moreover, that on the human level, it is the end-of-life routes that are not, with too much medicalization. All of this happens because we are not putting in place the adequate arrangements, especially in terms of teams. In palliative care units, they are multidisciplinary and able to take care of these patients, to keep them at home, to avoid over-medicalization by providing supervision. This is done around the needs of life, the suffering, the accompaniment of families. It's extremely bearer. This allows for extremely humane end-of-life care for the person concerned, and for families. This also helps to avoid re-medicalizations or over-medicalizations which, in fact, are not justified. Let me therefore make this plea. This must really be seen again in the vision of public health. Today, that is not the case, and it is a shame. Everyone could win.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u66	Minister, in La Louvière, the Palliative Care Unit of the Jolimontoise entity was created in 2008 and responds to the legislation to which it is subject in every respect. For an unknown reason, it has not received approval and has therefore been operating on equity since that time. The only USP not recognized by the Region, however, it is recognized by all its peers. The mobile team is called very upstream, to ensure the management of pain, whether in oncology or haematology, but also in cardiology, nephrology, neurology, even vascular surgery, abdominal surgery or even orthopaedic surgery. Accredited at the gold level of the AIT, the uncertainty of closure slows down this USP, which is crucial and indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, unfortunately I cannot answer the question because this subject falls within the competence of the Communities. Furthermore, I do not have any specific information on the case you are raising. I am therefore obliged to refer you to my colleague from the Walloon Region, Mrs Christie Morreale.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u68	Minister, this is also the response of the Walloon Minister of Health. Jolimont being in the Walloon Region, in this case the Walloon Minister of Health is competent. This is exactly the example that shows what I have just explained to you a few moments ago on the more macro debate. This service does an extraordinary job and front-line practitioners (general practitioners) and health and medical specialists at the hospital keep calling him to ask for patient care. This service manages to work with candle ends by being barely funded, in a limited space. Everyone needs this service. The teams have been investing for more than ten years, but the answers this service receives are either yours at the moment, or the response of the Walloon Minister of Health to the federal government, saying that the number of approved beds has been set at the federal level, that it is limited and that it cannot do anything. This is the kind of case where everyone loses, Minister, both patients, families, care teams, public health vision and the health budget. If I take this example, it is because I dare hope that this little ping pong game will stop and we can really attack this file. Do it at the Interdepartmental Conference and every time you see your colleagues! I want to prepare a point and you see what you can decide. We can't go on like this anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u69	Minister, my question is about the new measures to support infant-child psychiatry. As we mentioned last March, we are facing a saturation of this network when there are urgent needs for children and adolescents, and a call for help from parents. Today, we have a saturation of the network all the more so as we also have to deal with the consequences of the covid and this last wave, which has been particularly traumatic at the psychological level. Last March, you mentioned the €20 million extra for infant and child psychiatry in order to hire additional staff and increase the capacity for admission to other hospital services. However, the situation remains a matter of concern. Minister, how many places do we have in child and adolescent psychiatry? How many places are occupied today? How many places are or will be created through the planned budget? When you indicate that you want to increase the number of places in infant and child psychiatry in other services of our hospitals, what services are you talking about? In which hospitals will these new places be distributed and in how long will these places be operational? Will the provision of mental health care in infant and child psychiatry be in line with current needs with this €20 million budget increase? You mentioned the creation of specialized liaison teams to provide the necessary and urgent assistance to children and young people. Are you talking about existing specialized staff or reinforcement teams?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Merckx had questions on the same subject. There was reference here to the very sad story of that girl from Ghent who stepped out of life after rape. It has also emerged that she was refused twice for inclusion in the youth psychiatry. This is, of course, linked to the problem of waiting lists. Suicide and suicide attempts are very far-reaching for all those affected, and their prevention is, of course, an extremely important issue in mental health care. The Länder have central powers in this area, and they develop action plans and guidelines around it. Mental health care should prevent people from eventually committing suicide. I know that in this very dramatic case, the actors involved in the network crisis care, where the girl was notified, also carried out an evaluation, and that there was still contact with the family. The question is what we can do in the short term to increase our capacity. As you know, in February, I took a measure to speed up the treatment of children, young people and young adults with acute mental problems and problems, or young people in a crisis situation. I have also taken steps to strengthen the so-called mobile crisis teams of the mental health networks for children and young people. The total budget for the mobile teams has been increased by 50%, the operating resources of the networks by 75% and the framework of network psychiatrists by 25%. In this way, the capacity for mobile crisis response will be significantly increased in the short term, with an additional budget of 4.7 million euros. In the meantime, recruitments are over. The crisis teams were already strengthened by more than 90 full-time units of personnel. In addition, in May 2021, in consultation with the sector, I decided to intensify the residential provision of care for children and young people with serious and complex mental problems by increasing the staffing framework of the child and youth psychiatric services. Such an intensification makes it possible that staff can also take care outside the hospital to transfer care from the residential setting to the home or home replacement environment. The staff will then be employed in a so-called bridge function that will both provide care and transmit care to improve the continuity of care for these young people and their families and reduce the duration of inclusion in the K-services. This bridge function measure concerns a total of 212 full-time staff units. At the same time as the measures to strengthen psychiatric services for children, I have also decided to temporarily strengthen 170 units of bed capacity in the E-, A-, A- and K-services for the care of children and young people with mental problems in non-psychiatric hospital services, by using so-called liaison teams from child and youth psychiatry services within hospitals to the psychiatry, for example. The current bed capacity of K services has been exceeded in programming. It amounts to 619 K-beds for the whole country on 1 March 2021. With this measure in the short term, I envisage a de facto extension of more than a quarter. For the measures of bridge function and additional bed capacity, I have released more than EUR 21 million in additional annual budget. To answer Mr. Rigot's question about specialized teams and liaison teams, by mental health network for children and adolescents, I plan about €490,000 for which, theoretically, two teams of 2.70 full-time jobs each can be created for eight beds or places. Additional liaison team members will use their child psychiatric expertise in other non-psychiatric hospital services such as emergency and paediatric services as well as in adult psychiatric services for the 15-23 age group. This is intended to treat children, adolescents and young adults with serious and complex mental problems or to temporarily stabilize them in anticipation of mobile, ambulatory or semi-residential treatment, always on the basis of clear agreements between the relevant partners of the SMEA network. By deploying these liaison teams, we aim to prevent admissions or readmissions to K services or to shorten stays in K services. In addition, we temporarily create a greater capacity for admission for children and adolescents in situations of psychological vulnerability. Teams can make an undeniable contribution to optimizing the continuity of care and support of children, adolescents and young adults and can give impetus to the development of the specialized offer for this target group. I can provide you with a picture of the various hospitals and their services. It is fairly detailed with dates, commitments, etc. from every hospital. It's pretty delicate information, but it's very interesting to know what's going on in the field. In short, the process is in progress. There are hospitals where additional staff has already been hired. Others will make these commitments in mid-June or mid-July. In any event, this was a clear and absolutely necessary step. It's on! In addition to these measures, my mental health policy is based on the needs of the population. This implies, among other things, that the allocation of new resources is best done in terms of population structure: population, age distribution, the proportion of estimated pathology and socio-economic characteristics of the population. The estimated prevalence of psychic disorders on an annual basis is 19 % in the age group below 18 years old. The respective average and median age of onset of mental disorders in Belgium is between 19 and 21 years. This means that half of the disorders occur for 19 years and half over the rest of life. Externalizing disorders start on average at the age of 7 years, anxiety disorders on average at the age of 14 years, alcohol disorders on average at the age of 23 years, mood disorders on average at the age of 38 years. In view of these high prevalence rates, I agreed with my fellow ministers at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health to strengthen mental health in the first line. This means that for the prevention and promotion of mental health, as well as for early detection and early intervention, for which the Länder are responsible, an additional budget of EUR 112 million is being invested to finance both the low-intensive care for short-term interventions and group interventions, but also the more intensive care. This is not the case in the current first-line psychological support. It is therefore important to make a thorough adjustment to the current RIZIV Convention governing the financing and reimbursement of primary psychological care (ELP) so that the overall ELP offer can respond to existing needs as best as possible. This work is being taken into account by the Transversal Agreement Commission. Within the available budget of €12.5 million, the target audience of children, young people and young adults up to the age of 23 was specifically taken into account. The transition age, the transition from younger to adult, is an important age in which mental problems can develop. It is explicitly taken into account. In view of the figures I have just quoted on the age of genesis of mental illness, it was decided to allocate budgets between children and adults in proportion to the budget for the target group of children - a third - rather than what one would do if one looked at the population, because that only weighs a fourth. Finally, as an important element, I asked the Federal Hospital Services Board to give me its opinion by mid-October 2021 on the aspects of programming, both general and specific with regard to the Sp, K and A services, including the rules for change and the first possible funding opportunities. I'll get you that table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u71	Minister, thank you. There is indeed nothing worse than feeling powerless, isolated, too, when there are real needs for support and accompaniment, whether for children, adolescents, but also for parents, witnesses of these tragedies and distresses that can go as far as suicide. For parents, it is also a tragedy to see their child in difficulty without being able to provide an answer, for lack of available infrastructure or necessary support. I congratulate you on the actions that have been taken. You took an engament of 20 million euros with that buoy that mental health care needed. The proposed comprehensive approach focuses on short-term, emergency, and differentiates the first line of hospitalization. It aims to reduce admission times and length of stay. It is necessary to limit the use of unnecessary or too long beds, in order to free them for those who need them. I am pleased to see political reactivity, and also, through the structures and commitments put in place, the reactivity of the field. It's, as you mentioned, a good start. To be followed, hoping that this can quickly be translated into an improvement on the ground for the benefit of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, I had tabled a question which you were aware of and in which I recall the framework, the legislation. I would like to draw your attention here to one point. Indeed, Mrs De Block decided to decide by adopting a ministerial order to lay down the special criteria for the accreditation of specialist doctors with the title "special professional in medical microbiology" and the title "special professional in clinical infectiousology". Another royal decree was also issued on clinical infectiology and medical microbiology. It is very interesting to note that the legal provisions apply only to doctors and not to biologists specializing in microbiology. However, there is a long argument put forward by both doctors and pharmacists to also allow pharmacists specializing in clinical biology, who have obviously made this additional specialization, to have the same recognition and to benefit from a level 3 title. This, of course, is an important element in relation to the work that can be done on the ground. I would therefore like to know your position on this matter concerning the official recognition of biologists and microbiologists pharmacists. Have you had any consultation on this? What are your intentions about this case? Minister Maggie De Block had put forward a number of arguments, including a series of missing elements that she did not want to submit to pharmacists. However, one might very well imagine that, pending the establishment of these structures, pharmacists can be recognized in the same way as doctors, once they have successfully completed this additional specialization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u73	The legal basis for the accreditation of pharmacists authorised to perform clinical biology services and tests is Article 23, § 2 of the Coordinated Law of 10 May 2015 on the Exercise of Health Professions (LEPS). With regard to the analyses in question and the manner in which they are carried out, a consultative procedure is provided for in the academies of medicine (section 140 of SARAS). On 25 January 2021 I sent a request for an opinion to the Royal Academy of Medicine and the Koninklijke Academie voor Geneeskunde on updating the criteria and procedures for accreditation. The opinion is expected for the coming weeks. The existing regulations in this area are dated and clarification is needed. A specific professional qualification for licensed pharmacists in clinical biologicals requires updated accreditation criteria. The request for an opinion contains the question of whether further training and a specific title should be provided for the sub-speciality of microbiology, as already foreseen for doctors and specialists in clinical biology. The Federal Council of Pharmacists will soon be established and will be able to contribute to it. Reference is made to section 7.1 of the said SARAS. In 2019, the Conseil supérieur des médecins spécialistes et des généralistes had already included provisions for pharmacists specializing in clinical biology in its opinion on microbiology. The federated entities will then have to provide for a procedure for the approval of candidates. As soon as we receive the opinion of the Royal Academies, concrete initiatives will be taken to update the regulations. Microbiology will be part of this analysis. The problem of clinical biology and microbiology concerns doctors and pharmacists. On the other hand, the professional qualification in infectious disease is a discipline with a prerequisite, a training path and final skills to acquire much more clinical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that you have taken steps to remedy the situation because, during the period we know and the period we have known, their role could have been truly fundamental. He was pleased that the case was moving forward, but it was a pity that he had not moved forward any faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u75	Minister, you are announcing the request for certain opinions. Unless I'm mistaken, I think some of them had already been given before, like the Academy. The reality today, the choice of the previous government and Minister De Block, is that the physician biologist at the end of the specialization immediately obtains the special professional title of Level 2 which is not the case with the pharmacist biologist. Just now I was talking about level 3 in my question, but I was obviously aiming to get level 2. Excuse me for that! Today, however, in the daily routine, biologists carry exactly the same responsibilities as biologists in the lab. They are for the complete nomenclature of clinical biology. They can be heads of department and lead the hospital hygiene committee or blood bank, etc. Do you not think that, during this journey, which may last for some time, and given the recent publication of this famous professional title especially in medical microbiology, only for biologists, it would be important to have at least a transitional derogation so that biologists practising microbiology are considered as biologists carrying a level 3 title, particularly in medical microbiology? Meanwhile, the journey will take place, but it gives an important advantage: there would be more units in the profession and the same rights and obligations, which I think is important given the quality stake. It also seems to me essential to look at this transitional provision for the time of the journey you have mentioned which, in my opinion, is likely to be long, in the interests of both patients and hospitals, of the quality of the scheme concerning microbiology including the component of antibiotic therapy. I would hope for a change of course in this area in view of the one taken by the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u76	Minister, although my question has been merged with that of my colleagues, it has been somewhat different. I do not know if you have seen my question because it has not been answered immediately. It is a question of Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European She focused on the lack of clarity for clinical biologists who have graduated for less than five years and who would like to be recognised as a clinical microbiologist. There would be room for interpretation. It is not entirely clear how they can apply for recognition. It is also not clear whether five years of experience as a clinical biologist should be demonstrated. Is it enough to have been a doctor-specialist for five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u77	Mrs Gijbels, I am aware that I did not give a very precise answer. Perhaps you should put a written question on that, which would be better. I am afraid to give an answer in front of the fist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u78	Minister, I believe that this is a lack of clarity in the MB which can easily be remedied. Apparently, the recognition committee follows a certain interpretation that is called into question by clinical biologists. I will put this question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u79	Mr President, give me a moment to find the text of my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u80	Of course, Minister. We're trying to save time, but we're aware that it's not easy for you to juggle questions so quickly. As a reminder, these are questions Nos 55017587C and 55017922C in item 14 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u81	Mr Rigot, I think you refer to Pierre Maurage's study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u82	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u83	The data from Mr.Maurage's study related to alcohol consumption during the first containment in 2020 are known from my services. For its part, Sciensano has also followed this parameter in its successive surveys since the beginning of the pandemic. The results of the fifth health survey under covid-19 were published in April. In particular, 73% of respondents reported using alcoholic beverages and 29% reported using less alcoholic beverages than before the health crisis, while 19.6% reported using more alcoholic beverages. It is in the 35-44 age group that the increase in alcohol consumption is most common, with an increase of 29% in this group. In the 18-24 age group, on the other hand, the majority of young consumers (61%) have decreased their alcohol consumption while few say they have increased their alcohol consumption. These data therefore show very different impacts of the health crisis for different groups, but these data also clearly identify that it has caused problematic consumption in some people. The government agreement mentions that the problem of addictions (drugs, alcohol, etc.) special attention is also given in the framework of inter-federal action plans. My policy note indicates my willingness to prepare an inter-federal strategy on the basis of the work of WHO and the projects already developed under the previous legislatures. In concrete terms, this plan should be prepared by the General Drug Policy Cell (CGPD) and the Thematic Meeting on Drugs of the ICD Public Health. The next meeting of the General Cell will take place before the end of May - but it is already June. This answer is from a few weeks ago. Normally, this meeting will have taken place. Its objective is to define the common priorities of the federal and federated entities. We should see more clearly about future work in the future. In addition to the work to prepare a comprehensive alcohol strategy, which can only have a relatively long-term impact, I would like to be able to act more quickly. I am well aware that the health crisis and its consequences have had an impact on the mental health of citizens. Mental health is one of my priorities and I therefore invest in the most accessible, outpatient and community-based care possible, including reimbursement of consultations with front-line psychologists. On the other hand, I will also raise the awareness of general practitioners by offering them an arsenal of training aimed at, among other things, the detection and early management of problematic alcohol consumption. Finally, I also want to support and raise awareness among hospital staff on the identification and treatment of alcohol problems in patients. This facility has already been tested in eight hospitals and is now stable enough to be deployed to other hospitals; this deployment is being prepared by the services and will result in a large call in the coming months. I would like to turn to Mrs Rohonyi's questions about follow-up and also her treatment at the meetings of the Conciliation Committee. I have given the follow-up figures, and we have indeed addressed groups with specific care and assistance needs in Codeco. For example, we have decided that activities requiring a physical presence, within groups of up to 10 people, for people with specific care and assistance needs, are allowed. These activities must be organized by recognized organizations in the field of primary health care, preventive health care or mental health care, and are authorized provided that they are organized outside to the extent possible. For example, family therapy sessions in the presence of all members of a household, group therapy sessions or supervised activities of self-help groups (Alcoolics Anonymous...). So we've been thinking about it, we've been planning for several weeks, or even more, exceptions that allow these groups to organize and meet. As regards the initiation of a national plan, as Mrs Rohonyi mentioned, I have already mentioned the government agreement. My policy note also states that an inter-federal strategy should be prepared on the basis of the work of WHO and projects already developed in previous legislatures. In concrete terms, this preparation must be done by the General Drug Policy Cell (CGPD) and the Thematic Meeting on Drugs of the ICD Public Health. The next meeting of the General Cell will take place in May, with the aim of defining the common priorities of the federal and federated entities. We should see more clearly about future work in the future. You say, "Whether it is, do you plan to take urgent action on this?" I am well aware that the health crisis and its consequences have had an impact on the mental health of citizens. Mental health is one of my priorities. It is for this reason that I have invested in the most accessible, outpatient and community-based quality care possible, in particular through reimbursement of consultations with front-line psychologists. On the other hand, I will also raise the awareness of general practitioners by offering them an arsenal of training aimed at, among other things, the detection and early management of problematic alcohol consumption. Finally, I also want to support and raise awareness among hospital staff on the identification and treatment of alcohol problems in patients. This device has already been tested in eight hospitals, as I just said. Deployment is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. The problem of overconsumption of alcohol is terrible. It has increased in many situations as part of the stress generated by the covid. There are cyclical phenomena, but there is also a structural reality. In Belgium, we have a problematic consumption with up to 12 litres of alcohol per inhabitant per year. This is a high average with health consequences, societal consequences for alcohol users. In fact, alcohol can lead to isolation, loss of landmarks, contact and mental, moral suffering. There are also economic consequences directly for the consumer, who could drop out in terms of employment but also for society, of course, because of the same drop-out, but also for many other reasons, in any case with consequences for our social security. Therefore, I am pleased to hear that, indeed, a first consultation meeting with the federated entities has taken place. It's important because it's a problem that needs to be caught up with the body. You're not the only one in charge. This is a problem that must be a priority for all the entities concerned. I therefore hope that a timetable will be set very quickly and that you will be able to tell us, at a forthcoming sitting, what this timetable is and what the priorities set at the end of this consultation are. I will certainly come back to you for more details now that the meeting has taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. This health crisis has had a magnifying effect on a real public health problem: alcoholism or problematic alcohol consumption. They have increased during the confinement but are likely to increase further with the debunking since, legitimately, our fellow citizens will want to take advantage of the terraces, the horeca, the exits between friends. You have quoted figures that are quite eloquent, even if there are differences between age groups. These figures relate to the problem of alcohol use, but do not mention the cases of the resulting diseases. I would have liked to hear more from you on this point. I am pleased to hear that the Codeco has taken this issue into account and I call on you to continue your attention to this issue because the end of curfews or the lifting of the ban on the sale of alcohol in night shops may increase alcohol consumption, particularly among young people. I am pleased to hear your willingness to work quickly on an inter-federal alcohol plan, particularly in the Inter-Ministerial Health Conference, even though we remain hungry about the timing. This is essential to address this issue, but also to meet the WHO's insistent demand for supply reduction and demand reduction strategies. I am thinking of the strict regulation of advertising, marketing and access to the product for minors. For example, the temporary measure taken during the health crisis could be to suspend the sale of alcohol in shops and service stations in the motorway network, or to base the differentiation between young people under 16 years of age and those between 16 and 18 years of age on the alcohol content rather than on the type of product. Here, I think, are some avenues that could be explored by this interdepartmental conference. I thank you, for the rest, for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u86	Mr President, these are important issues. My answer is in part somewhat technical but I will still give all the elements. I understand that the nursing staff is at a standstill. They've been at the front for sixteen months. That is why I am fighting in a concertation committee to set ambitious targets, also as regards improving the situation in hospitals, which, fortunately, is now being achieved. Mrs Rohonyi, I answer your question about intensive care services. Specific and additional support measures have been put in place in addition to the funding provided to hospitals with intensive care beds, in order to finance the number of health care personnel required by the accreditation standards required for intensive care functions to be approved. Hospitals were funded for their costs and additional costs related to the guidelines for maintaining additional capacity in intensive and non-intensive care, such as the permanent reservation of approved intensive care beds for the treatment of covid-19 patients and the permanent reservation for the non-intensive treatment of covid-19 patients. How? Two EUR 1 billion advances granted in 2020. On the basis of the Royal Decree of 30 October 2020 laying down the procedure for granting exceptional federal financial assistance to hospitals in the context of the epidemic, lump sum intervention amounts were fixed by ministerial decree of 21 December 2020 to finance the care of covid-19 patients hospitalized in intensive care units, with a distinction between intensive care beds without respiratory assistance, with respiratory assistance, or with extra-corporal oxygenation by membrane (ECMO). These three packages include the hiring of additional support staff, additional salary costs (guardians, overtime), the cost of medical equipment and accessories, personal protective equipment (masks, gloves, gel, etc.).), support services (cleaning, feeding, sterilization, etc.) and the addition of 5 % of the amount relating to the share of the other general costs observed in the definition of the amounts of the different packages. This measure represents an additional funding of €13,427,000. In addition, as part of the resources provided by the White Blouse Fund for the year 2020, hospitals also had the opportunity to recruit additional staff (caring staff, support functions integrated into the care teams), i.e. staff included in the standards of hospital care services, functions and programmes, as well as support staff who assist health workers in these administrative and logistical tasks, recruited to deal with the coronavirus epidemic. The expenditure made through the Fund could also be used for measures to improve the working conditions of health-care workers. In addition, a specific budget for psychosocial support to hospital workers was allocated to hospitals wishing to benefit from this budget through a contract that provided for the hiring or extension of the working time of psychologists, clinician psychologists or orthopedagogical clinicians. It was also possible to employ an external service provider, specialized in psychosocial support, prevention and protection at work. The period covered by the contract could start between 1 April and 31 December 2020, for a maximum duration of 12 months. More generally, the Medical Supply Planning Commission and, in particular, the Working Group on Nurses is currently working on the development of scenarios related to the evolution of the labour force. A first basic scenario is being developed, allowing the labour force to evolve without any change in current policy. Next, the working group will identify different scenarios for the evolution of the nursing profession for the future. In addition, a study is being carried out to determine and quantify them. Based on a precise knowledge of the sector and its evolution, it will be possible to consider additional avenues to enhance the profession. Work is continuing, and I look forward to the Commission's opinion in order to organise a concerted revalorisation of the profession. The basic scenarios are expected by the end of the year, while the alternative scenarios will then be developed. In addition, Mr Bacquelaine, INAMI has been co-financing since 2015, in partnership with the federated entities, the organization of annual trainings on the use of e-health tools for the first line of care. Their aim is to make these available tools known and to encourage their use. From the first edition, emphasis was placed on training in electronic records management and digital data sharing for medication schemes, in a multidisciplinary context. Group training has been and continues to be organized, as have coaching and individual technical aids. These are targeted at non-hospital claimants, general practitioners, dentists, physiotherapists, midwives, nurses and, more recently, the hospital community. My firm met with representatives of the General Union of Nurses of Belgium on 17 May 2021. A constructive discussion took place. We recalled the ongoing actions and discussed them. As regards the general problem of the attractiveness of the nursing profession, a Working Party on Attraction was set up with the social partners in the framework of the tripartite consultation which ensures the implementation of the social agreement 2021-2022. Many other issues are raised by professional organizations and we are working on them. Here are my answers to the three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u87	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. However, I still do not know what is planned for the monitoring and follow-up of burn-out cases. For the rest, you have announced a whole series of measures, but I think that, in order to avoid the burn-out of nurses upstream, we must first improve their working conditions and consult with them. I hear that was done on 17 May and I thank you for that. In my view, it is also necessary to start work on the recognition of burn-out as an occupational disease or, at least, as a work-related disease, as well as on the recognition of the tenability of the occupation. It must be noted that we are still not there. You have cited measures and working groups to improve the attractiveness of the trade, although I believe that the demands of the sector have been known for a long time and are even constant. I therefore wonder about the added value of this working group. This being a reflection is always welcome, as long as it is done with the sector and through additional budgets. I think that all this, in the end, will never address the concerns of nurses if, at the same time, you take measures that deny their work or their specificities and result in disgust of nurses. I am thinking in particular of the law on the delegation of nursing acts to unqualified personnel. They still don't. I am also thinking of the change in the classification of their profession, which tends no longer to recognize the profession of specialist nurse. I must say this, Minister, because despite the work that is being done today, nurses continue to feel disrespect and appreciation for them and fear for the safety of their patients. Because they are exhausted, they force their patients to be treated in poor conditions. I invite you to continue your dialogue with the sector. Only then will it be possible to make their working conditions more dignified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am obviously aware of the administrative aids and supports that are being provided, in particular to general practitioners and certain health professions on the electronic media file, etc. What worries me is the following. When asked about the causes of burn-out, 80% of those in burn-out say that it is not at all the work dedicated to patients that put them in this situation, but rather the paperwork and administrative obligations. It's a real problem. In the overall time spent on a patient, whether a doctor, nurse or kine, the proportion of time spent on the care itself and the amount of time spent on administrative obligations has changed completely over the years. The time spent on patient care has decreased, while the time spent on administrative obligations has increased. However, I believe that the quality of care should lead to the opposite. Minister, we need to look at a specific study of the time spent on administrative procedures by physicians, nurses and physiotherapists and ensure that there is a plan to reduce the administrative burden so that the time spent on care can be increased. This is one of the keys to a more sustained attention to the problems that caregivers face today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic506x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answers. I wanted to go back to the emotional distress that the health care staff experienced during the covid period, which exacerbated their demand for recognition, even if the administrative part plays a role. They were on the front line and had to deal with serious cases. They were sometimes the last person the patient saw because visits were prohibited. All this helped to plunge them into emotional distress, which did not stop at the first wave. There was a psychosocial support program but it stopped in December 2020. My question was whether it could be reactivated because my great fear is that after this vaccination period, there is a kind of decompression, at which the healthcare staff and management risk falling into burn-out. There is a real risk in terms of resources in hospitals that must not be lost sight of. I wanted to go back to a psychosocial support program that could be reactivated quite urgently in hospitals.
