ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u1	Madam Minister, we had the opportunity to discuss this subject last Thursday in plenary and you gave us a lot of figures. I was asking you about the demonstration that the group of police officers on Facebook had undertaken. We are surprised at the savings that are being made, even if they are not the same as for other government services. The Commissioner General of the Federal Police also expressed his astonishment and concern about RTL-TVi's antennas. I know there are envelopes of complementary investments that are spread over a few years and it feels like what you give with one hand, you take it from the other. When you presented your policy note, you committed to earmarking additional funds for the police of EUR 50, 70, 90 and 100 million for the period 2021-2024. Is this commitment met? We are also concerned about the standard of 1,600 agents. Where are we? I know that commitments are under way. How much is that envelope worth? You have allocated additional budgets for digitalization, but we would like to see more clarity on all these increases and decreases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u2	Madam Minister, the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police recently expressed regret at the cuts that his department will have to face. In addition, the government declaration announced that there would be linear savings in all departments. I conclude from that that includes the security departments. There is not much clarity about this at the moment. However, the government has always stated that investment in our security services must be maintained. How do these two fit together? Finally, I will not repeat the debate on NAVAP, but the results of the negotiations on wage increases must of course be taken into account. As Mrs Matz pointed out, last year you promised an additional envelope of EUR 50, 70, 90 and 100 million for the police in your policy paper for the coming years. Will you keep that commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u3	Minister, you have announced that there is a need to hold as many hearings as possible regarding federal police funding. However, tomorrow, you have planned to arbitrarily announce new savings to the police. The police unions are very worried. We already know that you only planned peanuts for wage increases: between 30 and 50 euros after 20 years of wage blockade! Moreover, the disappearance of the NAPAP regime will not only have an effect on career ends but also indirectly on the financing of police areas. Indeed, we know that NAPAP grants are taken by the municipalities, even when older police officers do not go to pre-pension because the structural funding gap has to be filled. In 2024, the cost of training will no longer be borne by the federal government, but by the police. The risk is that there will be imbalances between the different police areas, all of which do not have the same facilities to finance police training. Minister, what are you planning on announcing to the police tomorrow? What are you going to do to reassure them about the future of federal police funding? When do you plan to reinvest in human beings, in wages, training, pensions? The human is the heart of the police function and yet this is where you decide to make the most savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Matz, particularly with regard to the Federal Police, I will fulfil my commitment to reinvest in it through additional appropriations and subsidies from Europe. The budget cuts in this case follow those imposed on all departments of the federal government. For the federal police, the cumulative amount since 2021 of the budget cuts reached €22,878 million in 2022, €35,533 million in 2023 and €48,188 million in 2024. Within the framework of the European Recovery Plan, additional resources were obtained for two major projects in the digitalisation of the police, including the Cybersecurity and 5G projects for a total amount of €10.030 million, as well as the project on the digitisation of judicial proceedings for a total amount of €9.033 million. In addition, during the budget conclave, I earmarked EUR 79 million for the iPolice project to be financed under Belgium's transition plan. Last but not least, there are additional appropriations for the federal police. These additional appropriations of EUR 50, 70, 90 and 100 million for the period 2021-2024 will indeed be used to finance not only the recruitment of the 1,600 applicants but also the investment needs, in accordance with my policy note. In 2020, recruitment was interrupted for some time due to the covid-19 crisis. Nevertheless, 1,133 new aspirants inspectors have begun their training. On 15 October 2021, 1,123 new inspectors had begun their training and the federal police were still planning a large number of new inspectors to begin their training in December, so that the number of new recruits for the year 2021 would be reached. Mr Depoostere, we have discussed on several occasions that the security departments are indeed subject to linear savings, like all other departments. On the other hand, I have just explained that there is investment in the federal police. The commitment to additional investment of 50/7990/100 million is carried out without change, also next year. In addition, there is investment in the digitalisation of the police. Around €20 million is also invested through the relay plan and €79.3 million for the development of i-Police, both for the benefit of the federal and local police, which certainly contributes to modernisation and helps to prepare the police for the future. Mr Boukili, I would like to inform you that we have changed our recruitment procedure so that aspiring candidates can choose an area for local police or a direction for the federal police before their training begins. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the cost of training remains the responsibility of the federal police. In addition to this, I maintain efforts to strengthen the human aspect. To this end, I am trying to put in place a system for pre-pension non-activity which should take account not only of suitable work but also of transitional measures. Furthermore, at my request, negotiations are under way for the establishment of a new sectoral agreement. With regard to NAPAP, discussions have already taken place with the unions, the federal police and the local police. Discussions are also taking place with representatives of city and municipal associations to ensure that the local police are also involved in the process. For 2022, the NAPAP system remains unchanged. We will prepare the future by determining the work that can be done for the police. We don't want to make a shock. We really take the human aspect into account. Beyond that, efforts are being made in terms of the diversity and ongoing training of police officers. Other initiatives have already been taken to be an employer of choice for the police officers of today and the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u5	I thank you, Madam Minister, for this very comprehensive and encouraging answer as to the number of aspiring candidates committed with the objective that seems to be possible at the end of the year and the additional means to assist the police in their numerous missions (floods, terrorism, health crisis in which they were particularly sought). If we have the opportunity earlier, we will come back to other worrying topics such as the removal of certain cells, etc. A very important de-financing of the police occurred before you. It will take time for the situation to return to a level equal to that of the past, when their missions are largely complementary. We are counting on your determination to hold these budgets and implement them, because sometimes the budgets are there, but we don't do that because we have to launch public procurement, etc. We therefore rely on you because the police deserve that we devote every possible means to support it in its missions which, in recent years, are really not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u6	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you reaffirm your commitment to implement that additional envelope in the coming years. That's a very good signal. In the context of the budgetary negotiations, however, we will have to look at how you will roll out your promises in detail. Digitisation, with the investments in i-Police, seems to me a logical option. As Mrs Matz pointed out, there must also be a catch-up movement, especially in terms of staff. It is good that we are getting off to a good start and that we are seeing progress in this, but it will depend above all on continuing these efforts in the years to come, until 2024. You are putting the budgetary situation on the corona crisis a little bit by 2020, which is right. I don't have a glass ball, but it doesn't look so good, and I'm still a little worried about the coming year when we're facing another crisis like this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u8	Yeah, just about the recruitment, which is an important element in the whole. As far as the funding of the police zones is concerned, you have again explained the NAVAP scheme, but it is now clear. This funding is an important element in the negotiations, not only with cities and municipalities, but also in the wider political context. You will have to take into account the opinions of the States-General in order to find a good solution in this respect. I can see some progress, but it's gonna have to last until 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u9	Minister, you listed in your response different investments and elements to be put in place to strengthen the police force. Unfortunately, these investments do not compensate for the 2% linear savings. The savings remain greater than the investments you announce. In addition, the new staff commitments you are announcing make it possible to compensate for retirements. You say you're going to hire 1,600 people but, in fact, they're only 200 people, since 1,400 people are retiring, all of them out of a negative balance of 4,400 police officers. We're short 4,400 police officers and you're only announcing a commitment of 200 people. This remains totally inadequate. In addition, if older police officers decide to benefit from the pre-pension non-activity plan (NAPAP) in the coming years, as they realize that you will end this system, the situation will be even more serious. As with many announcements by the Vivaldi government, there is a gap between promised investments and reality. In the case of the police, it is serious, because in the future, this lack of resources will further complicate the exercise of the function for the police, who must regain confidence with the citizens. That is our first concern. Therefore, we really need to take this problem seriously. As far as NAPAP is concerned, I remain dubious. Indeed, when I talk to the unions, they say they do not want to discuss the subject, while you say you are talking to them with a view to finding a solution. There are therefore two completely different findings. In short, these investments are insufficient in view of all the cuts you are planning in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u10	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u11	Mr Donné, I am aware of the concerns about the training of chief inspectors in recognised police schools, particularly in the PLOT. One of the basic principles of the system of training as chief inspector is that the candidate takes responsibility for himself and thus chooses his or her place of training in a police school of his or her choice, taking particular account of availability. The tests to be carried out from inspector to chief inspector have been conceived as a competition on which a ranking follows. The best ranked candidates can first choose their place of training. If the places in the Limburg police school are full, a candidate can choose a place in another police school, where places are still vacant. I understand that this is not evident for a number of Limburg candidates. Fedpol has committed himself to contact the police school directors concerned in the very short term to find a solution. That has happened in the meantime. The 11 people for whom there was no place will be distributed over three sites, namely PLOT, Vesta and Brussels GIP. For 2022, the intention is to make clear agreements with the schools and the candidates in advance. It was also proposed that in the future not only look at the ranking in determining a police school. Other criteria could also be charged, e.g. the candidate's place of residence. We will certainly discuss this further with Wim Dries, the President of the Council of Mayors and the Police College of PZ CARMA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. We will follow how that will continue in the future. For now, that's enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have recently been arrested by a guarding officer responsible for inspections in one of the major food distribution chains in Belgium. This worker reported that this sign would instruct the guarding agents to charge 50 euros for administrative costs to persons arrested for shoplifting. He also denounces the pressure exerted by the brand for these agents to carry out more and more interrogations. Minister, could you tell me whether this practice as described is compatible with the current legal framework? If so, have the monitoring services in the sector found such infringements and do you have any relevant figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u14	Mr President, dear colleague, the Private Security Act clearly states that a guard cannot ask the client that he has arrested for theft any amount other than that corresponding to the payment of the stolen property. In other words, a custodian cannot claim an additional amount of money for administrative expenses. Last year, my administration did not receive any specific complaints about this, nor did it find this type of offence in fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u15	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u16	Minister, on Wednesday, October 6, a shocking documentary on the prostitution of minors as young as 14, 15 or 16 years old was broadcast on television. Most of these measures have fallen into a well-functioning trap and made promises of easy money by pimps who then "reveal" these minors among themselves for several thousand euros. Unfortunately, these young girls rarely complain. This further complicates the work of the police officers responsible for dismantling these networks of trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of minors. Minister, it is stated in your policy statement that the necessary technical skills will be developed among police personnel in this area. What have you put in place to combat human trafficking and sexual exploitation, especially of minors? How does the federal police work with local authorities and police to dismantle these networks? How do the information on this subject circulate between the various federal, regional and local services? Are prevention policies also planned as well as policies to encourage the filing of complaints and the protection of victims? Is there a policy in place to be able to accompany these victims socially and psychologically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u17	Dear colleague, the prosecution policy in these matters is defined by the circulars of the College of Attorneys General: the COL 1 of 2015 for trafficking in human beings and the COL 13 of 2018 for trafficking. In each judicial district, a reference magistrate is responsible for the implementation of the said prosecution policy according to the specificities of his or her own district. Local police and units of the Federal Judicial Police have specialized teams in these areas. The Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime has a section dedicated to monitoring trafficking and trafficking in human beings. This section is responsible for the coordination of criminal intelligence and information at the national and international levels, the coordination of investigations and the provision of certain forms of operational support at the request of magistrates or investigators. In the area of police training, training modules are organized to raise awareness among front-line units of indicators of trafficking in human beings and how to address victims. The latest comprehensive report published in February 2021 on trafficking in human beings of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime reveals that one in three victims of trafficking is a child. In 2022, the European Crime Prevention Network will focus on preventing the sexual exploitation of children. The fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings are priorities recently reaffirmed by the European Commission in its strategic plan for the period 2021-2025. It goes without saying that Belgium, a pioneer of the first hour in these fields, is part of this logic. In accordance with the Government Agreement, combating trafficking in persons is a government priority, including that of minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. The trivialization of this sexuality on social networks among the younger ones accentuates this phenomenon. The Commissioner of the Judicial Police, head of the central service trafficking and trafficking in human beings, judges TikTok as the most disturbing platform for young people. It is a phenomenon that must be kept in mind. In your answer, I appreciated the words "training", "awareness" and "prevention". Prevention for younger people is still a delicate and somewhat taboo subject. We must not be afraid to open the debate among the younger ones and to set up preventive campaigns stressing the danger of these networks and the control that pimps may have over minors, in view of their fragility. It is a phenomenon that affects all strata of society and disadvantaged environments are not necessarily the most present. We see miners from affluent backgrounds. Awareness-raising is also an important element. Dialogue with the police is sometimes difficult and the training of police officers is a major factor. These three elements are reflected in the priorities of the European Strategic Plan. I thank you for the follow-up that will be given to these acts of society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u19	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u20	It shall be permitted for a citizen or a journalist to film members of the police services during a police intervention on public roads or in a place accessible to the public, in so far as filming is for personal use or for legitimate journalistic purposes. Of course, the legislation on privacy must be respected. The COC states in an opinion following the judgment that a person filming a police officer must be able to demonstrate the social importance of the images filmed. I may not have to convince you that policemen, like everyone else, are entitled to privacy. It is therefore essential that everyone, i.e. police officers, police officers and citizens, be well informed about the possibilities and restrictions in this area. Strengthening trust between young people and police is a priority for me. During the consultation with the Flemish Youth Council on 15 September 2021, I therefore also listened extensively to the needs and ideas of the young people. The Flemish Youth Council has done a thorough job and has indeed published its recommendations. On certain points we can also follow the advice and ideas of the Flemish Youth Council. I am thinking, for example, of the advice for the police to work out procedures for dealing with young people. I also note the recommendation that, when recruiting police officers, attention should be paid to a better reflection of society. If one of the recommendations is to be read as a call to bystanders to always or as much as possible film police officers in interventions, then I think it may be too unsophisticated. Too often these videos of an incident or intervention find their way on social media, mostly without history and without context. For this reason, they are often a cause of unrest. So that one could take into account the full context of an intervention, I also decided to equip policemen with bodycams, who can start filming before the intervention and only stop recording after the end. It seems to me in everyone's interest, within the limits that recordings always have, to paint a more complete and therefore balanced picture of the interventions. This should also make it possible for all actors to be aware of their responsibilities in the event of an incident and to establish the facts correctly. Bodycams are there to resolve conflicts when needed. However, let us certainly not skip the first step, namely to talk to each other and certainly to inform each other about the rights, including the rights to privacy of policemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. As I said earlier, I think the pendulum is going a bit crazy. Whether or not they are deliberately trying to put the police in a bad light, especially with regard to interventions on the ground. The COC has a very clear opinion on it and there are also very clear judgments: police officers must not be filmed everywhere and a social interest must be demonstrated. The solution may be to equip our policemen with bodycams. I am certainly in favour of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u22	Madam Minister, the Flemish Youth Council is gratuitely accusing police officers of ethnic profiling and wants an explicit ban on this. Is the gross accusation that the police would do racial profiling? All the understanding that one should respect one another, but let us make it clear that there is a difference between perpetrator profiling and ethnic profiling. This has already been discussed extensively in this committee. The president of the VCLP has already clarified this. Do you agree that the use of perpetrator profiling by police forces is a technique that should remain possible at all times and should not be restricted in order to carry out the normal investigation work of police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u23	Mr Depoostere, the police cannot and must not do ethnic or racial profiling. There is no directive to that effect either. By relying solely on race or ethnic origin, which is then distracted from the external characteristics of a person, one would in advance exclude the objective criteria for control, such as behaviour, material clues or circumstances of time and place, as also laid down in the articles relating to the search and identity check in the law on the police officer. I would therefore ask all police chiefs and leaders within the federal police to take possible cases of discrimination by police officers seriously and to address inappropriate behaviour or inappropriate statements, including ethnic profiling. The integrated police is an important partner in the preparation and implementation of the National Action Plan to combat racism, in which ethnic profiling is a focus of attention. Several police zones have already developed an operational framework for professional profiling. That framework of action provides a tool to act in a professional and objective manner when carrying out controls on persons. A ministerial directive on a "professional control" framework for the integrated police is currently being prepared, focusing on its implementation in practice and its transversal integration into the training of police personnel. Finally, the integrated police have been teaching the technique of behavior detection for a number of years. In doing so, police officers are trained to detect possible deviant behaviors that might indicate that a person intends to disrupt order or commit a crime. Profiling means that, on the basis of objective information from the police or other partners in the security chain, a profile is to be drawn up of the perpetrators of crimes already committed. This profile then helps researchers to track down offenders in a targeted way, and therefore, perpetrator profiling is based on objective data, a technique that allows the police to steer their search and enforcement activities as effectively as possible and to use them as efficiently as possible. I therefore believe it is part of the normal police work and it follows the philosophy of intelligence led police or information-driven police care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u24	Madam Secretary, I need to replicate and debate with you. If you say that you will send another letter to the police chiefs to point out to them that ethnic profiling is prohibited by law, you are actually insinuating that it is also happening within our police force. I don't believe that at all. One tries to knowingly or unconsciously, but I think of some bodies and organizations rather consciously to confuse the unsub profiling that you cite as an objective fact to profile and detect offenders with ethnic profiling. One tries to equate both concepts with one another, which of course is not correct. It goes without saying that we do not immediately arrive at Sweden or Norwegians if, for example, a drug raid is taking place in Brussels-South. It is not because the perpetrator in question has a strange origin, that one can speak of ethnic profiling. That's not true at all. People are in the process of perpetrator profiling, and because sometimes people of foreign origin are the subject of attempts to equate this with ethnic profiling. This is a very dangerous slope. I believe that we should try to make this clear, including to other organisations and bodies, so that this confusion can be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, I was surprised to learn that Syria had just been reintegrated into the INTERPOL system of information exchange from which Damascus had been excluded in 2012, when international sanctions had been imposed in response to the crimes committed by the regime against its population. Many today, particularly in human rights organisations, denounce this reintegration, knowing the countless international reports that denounce the use of torture, the repression of opponents and the enforced disappearances perpetrated by the Assad regime. In concrete terms, this reintegration again enables Syria to disseminate red notices, which are international arrest warrants extended to the 194 Member States of the police cooperation organisation. These notices can lead to extradition, which worries Syrian human rights defenders who have found refuge in many countries such as ours. Has the Minister, Belgium, as a member of INTERPOL, been made aware of this reintegration? What is its position on this and the potential consequences for those who have found asylum in our country? Does Belgium intend to address this issue within the European Union and INTERPOL?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u26	Mr President, Mr Rigot, the INTERPOL National Central Office, which is part of the Federal Police in Brussels, has not been informed of any reintegration since Syria has remained a member of INTERPOL since 1953. Indeed, on 15 October, INTERPOL issued only a statement on the lifting of the corrective measures taken against Syria. The INTERPOL Executive Committee decided that these corrective measures could be lifted, which means that its National Central Office in Damascus is again authorized to send messages directly. These measures were intended to oversee the processing of data and never had any influence on Syria's status as a member of INTERPOL. The Secretariat-General, however, indicated that it would continue to monitor this process closely and that, in the event of a problem, the measures could be reintroduced. An Interpol multidisciplinary inspection commission evaluates the compliance of an arrest request via a red notice with the rules in force prior to publication. The main focus is on articles 2 and 3 of the statute of Interpol, which guarantee respect for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and prohibit any activity or intervention in matters or cases of a political, military, religious or racial nature. If Syria sends us an application for arrest of a person located in Belgium who is a recognised refugee candidate, the police address the competent magistrate to ask whether the information on the status of the refugee candidate can be communicated to the country of origin. The responsibility for communication lies with the magistrate, who is supposed to contact the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons, or the Office of Foreigners. The question of whether the application meets all the legal requirements is then also examined at Belgian level, in consultation with all the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u27	Madam Minister, I understand that it is a question of lifting sanctions against Damascus, but we must not normalize a relationship with Damascus, with a State that still cultivates violence, instability, which is the cause of its own humanitarian crisis, and which also leaves the door wide open to terrorist actions. I believe that we should be as careful as possible with regard to the significant risks of misuse of red notices. This attention must be at the heart of our struggle, of our relations, at every moment. It will be necessary to analyse these risks as requests come to our country, and to have a common approach with the INTERPOL Member States in order, if necessary, to reverse – and rather quickly – in order to avoid any drama that would be generated by this decision to lift sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister, my questions relate to an appeal to the European authorities, which was launched by the French Minister of the Interior at the end of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u29	Mr President, Mr Pivin, a memorandum of understanding between the United Kingdom and Belgium regulates the practical arrangements for British aid in the fight against transmigration. The UK Home Office allocated EUR 784,000 to the Federal Police, which spent the entire amount on the purchase of equipment for the fight against transmigration, not to mention investments that do not concern the police but the port authority and terminal operators. Apart from the purely financial aspect, British aid also translates into operational support in the form of canine teams. This support is estimated by the UK authorities at half a million pounds. Information from France and Great Britain confirms that the phenomenon of illegal crossings of the Channel with small boats is on the rise. This, however, remains, above all, a French phenomenon. Indeed, the distance to be travelled from the Belgian coast is twice as much as from the French coast, not to mention that the current in the North Sea goes in the opposite direction. Interceptions at sea, on the Belgian side, mainly concern vessels which have drifted from French waters. There are only a handful of known cases of actual departures of boats from the Belgian coast and, with one exception, they are well organized crossings using vessels designed for the sea. In 2021, we experienced an increase in the phenomenon but still without a common measure with what is happening in France. These are five facts, three of them with an inflatable boat. As I have already had the opportunity to stress on several occasions, we are in constant consultation with France and the United Kingdom in order to deal with the phenomenon of transmigration to the United Kingdom. These consultations take place both bilaterally and trilaterally, at the political, administrative and operational levels. I had several meetings on other subjects with my French colleague on 8 October on the sidelines of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg, but we did not discuss this phenomenon and the minister did not put it on the agenda. However, the issue was discussed on 1 October 2021 during the strategic committee under the Tournai Agreement, in which, among other things, the Governor of West Flanders participates for our country. In addition, the federal police and the local police have permanent contacts with their French colleagues to coordinate their activities in the field. Since March, the Federal Police has also participated in the operational intelligence unit in Coquelles, where information is exchanged in real time with France, the Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom and Europol to combat human trafficking networks. As part of the problem of transit migration flows to the United Kingdom, in early 2020 the Federal Police asked Frontex to examine the possibility of operational support from the European Agency. The request focused on a feasibility study to obtain support in three areas: imaging, research and development on detection equipment, and the possibility of deploying aerosurveillance in the North Sea. In response to the demand, Frontex first carried out a thematic vulnerability analysis of the coastal region of Belgium, France and the Netherlands, focusing in particular on the so-called small boats problem. This analysis confirms that the problem lies mainly in France and not so much in Belgium. Meanwhile, France has submitted a similar request to Frontex for the implementation of aerosurveillance. Belgium will continue to support this request. This is an international phenomenon that requires a European approach, starting with our neighbouring countries. The fight against transit migration in Belgium is part of the regular work of both the local and federal police. Depending on the imaging of the phenomenon in the district concerned, this work is complemented by coordinated actions initiated by the governor and the coordinating director. This can be achieved through the use of federal police support in the form of, for example, aerial observation, mobile administrative processing teams, migration dogs and horse riders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u30	Mr. President, I have no reply. Madam Minister, thank you. Your answer was really very complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, on October 6, you confirmed to me that Clearview software had been used by police services despite its obvious illegality. You then told us that this software had been used in tests. The following day, in the press, one of the members of the Police Information Review Body (PIB) explained that it had been used beyond the mere use of testing, in "some live files". This prompted the COC to relaunch a further investigation. Minister, where and when was this software used and for what types of files? What types of personal data have been processed? For what categories of people? What has become of the data collected? Have they remained in Belgium? Have any of them been sent to the United States? How do you explain that such manifestly illegal software could have been used? At what level of the chain of command did the authorization take place? What type of contract was signed between Clearview and/or the FBI to allow the use of this software? Who was the signatory? Finally, to what extent could the COC's investigation be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u32	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, following our last questions on this subject, you confirmed that, contrary to its denials, the federal police actually used Clearview facial recognition without legal authorization. This is a clear breach of data protection rules, and the software has been found to be illegal in Germany and Canada. You have also indicated that you wish to create a legal framework, in the future, for the use of this technology. Minister, has disciplinary proceedings been initiated for this use of software without a legal basis? How do you explain the denials by the federal police about the use of this software? The European Parliament has just voted on facial recognition. It calls for a moratorium on the deployment of these systems. Do you share this position that is in line with a ban or do you maintain your intention to create a legal framework to allow the use of facial recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a subject that has already been dealt with in a previous committee. We announced we're going to hold an audition. I would like to refer all your questions to this hearing which will be held in this committee and to which the COC and the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police will be invited. All your detailed questions on this subject will then be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u34	Thank you, Madam Minister. Together with my group, we were the first to ask for these important hearings, in particular that of the Police Information Review Body. Nevertheless, I would have liked the answers you were able to give today. I do not see why the organisation of these hearings prevents us from obtaining your answers to the questions I asked you personally, not to the COC.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u35	Madam Minister, it is true that with my group, I have asked for Mr. From Mesmaeker on these elements. However, the questions I have asked here fall within your competence. Therefore, I do not see why you reject the ball on the hearing in question, when you are in a position to answer these questions in your capacity as Minister of the Interior. I would like to ask you clearly whether disciplinary proceedings have been initiated with regard to the illegal use of this software. You're supposed to know and have to give me an answer. I don't understand why you're kicking in front of such important questions, when you're number one and you need to give us clear answers at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u36	Minister, since 2017, a risk assessment tool for partner violence, OER VP, has been developed. However, a study conducted in 2019 by a student at UCLouvain indicated that only 5.9% of respondents actually used this tool, about one third of the respondents who assessed the risks using a tool. The persons who use this instrument are mainly part of the aid services and the police. The instances that use the tool make quite frequent use of it. The instrument is used in all cases of partner violence either suspected or established, according to respondents using the instrument. The tool is also welcomed rather positively. According to the same study, the main cause of the non-use of this tool was its lack of public awareness. Since then, on 1 January 2021, Circular No. 15 of the College of Public Prosecutors has entered into force, aimed at generalizing the use of a front-line risk assessment tool for violence in the couple by the police and prosecutors' offices. Minister, how has this tool been used since this circular came into force and with what results? Has a wider use of this tool been observed among the professionals concerned? Is an evaluation of this tool planned in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to SOS Viol, more than nine daily complaints are filed for rape in Belgium. In 79% of cases, the victim knows his attacker. This may be a friend, relative or colleague, making the filing of a complaint not only difficult with respect to the criminal act committed, but also in many cases emotionally and psychologically difficult. Unfortunately, many testimonies, highlighted in particular through the "double-peine" hashtag on social networks, denounce a flagrant lack of professionalism in the head of some police officers when victims of gender-based and/or sexual violence go to the police station. If, of course, the aim is not to generalise this finding, these testimonies must be taken very seriously in order to ensure that the reception of victims is adequate with regard to the trauma experienced. Minister, at present, are all police officers being trained in the proper procedure for receiving these victims and filing their complaints? Would it not be essential to include this type of training in the initial curriculum of police officers? Does appropriate training exist to take into account the gender and sexual orientation of the victim? Since the circular "zero tolerance" was not really binding, what other measures could be taken to ensure the overall reception of victims of violence? Each area is expected to have a reference person on domestic violence. Is there such a person with regard to sexual violence? How is it formed? Do you have figures on this issue when filing complaints of sexual violence? What is the internal procedure if a refusal to file a complaint for sexual violence is denounced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Zanchetta, two tools are currently being used in the context of domestic violence. First, there is a broader tool that is used in a multidisciplinary approach to domestic violence, notably by the Family Justice Centers. There is then a smaller version which is used by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police services, in accordance with the COL15/2020. I do not have any information on the use of the more comprehensive tool to which you referred. This tool is intended for the various actors in the psychosocial support sector, as well as for the prosecution and the police as part of the multidisciplinary approach to cases of domestic violence. Mr Senesael, I would like to point out that the reception of victims is one of the essential features of the police services and, in particular, of the local police areas. This fundamental component is therefore part of the initial training of our police officers. In particular, it is through cluster 8 of the basic training of police inspectors dedicated to the reception of victims that future police officers are required to distinguish between the different types of victims and their specific needs. In general, ongoing training on receiving and assisting victims has been strengthened. Although not exclusively targeting the reception of victims of sexual and gender-based violence, they certainly allow the development of essential skills and skills in this context. In addition, a training course entitled "Welcome to victims of sexual violence" has been set up and organized in the various approved provincial schools with primary responsibility for meeting the training needs of local police areas. A number of training courses on domestic violence were also offered. Currently, there is no training intended exclusively to accommodate each type of sexual abuse victim according to sexual orientation. However, the particularities of the different situations can be dealt with successfully during the training courses mentioned. Training on diversity and non-discrimination is also offered to staff. I would like to point out that the Federal Training Plan currently in force has resumed the reception of victims as a priority phenomenon. The objective of the plan is to communicate to all police schools the subjects and areas to be given priority attention in the development of their training offer. According to information from the last Security Monitor conducted in 2018, moral events are those that are the least reported and show the highest level of black figures. Indeed, only 17 per cent of acts of morality are reported to the police. We have only figures on the number of complaints recorded in connection with these acts, not figures on the refusal to write a report on sexual violence. However, if such a situation arises, an internal investigation is immediately initiated at the request of the police officer's disciplinary authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u39	Minister, I have no particular comment, except that we should probably go further in the assessment of this tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u40	I thank the minister for the response she has provided. First, it is important to review all the training provided within the police force, from initial training to further and enhanced training. It is also worth recalling the interest and importance of the provincial schools that provide these trainings. Secondly, I think it might be interesting to recall, in some police areas, the existing federal training plan, which can be an interesting contribution to dealing with the various facts and situations encountered. In any event, I am pleased that the minister is paying attention to this phenomenon and is paying particular attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u41	Minister, under the leadership of your predecessor, Jan Jambon, Emergency Preparedness was literally emptied of its substance. She lost 4 barracks out of 6, as well as 810 professional and volunteer agents. It also appears that some equipment has been sold. The recent floods have demonstrated the urgent need to reverse this reform. Civil protection has suffered from a severe shortage of personnel and equipment to deal with the disaster. After repeatedly announcing that you would evaluate the reform, at the last plenary session, you said that you would increase investment and recruit new agents. Your majority partner, Mr. Piedboeuf, seemed more explicitly to regret this reform. Minister, I would like more specific answers on the government's intentions. How many agents are you going to hire? What investments are planned? Are you considering reopening barracks? What is the timing of the evaluation and what are the intermediate conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u42	Dear colleague, the recruitment process is under way for ten sappers who will be assigned to the Crisis Civil Protection Unit and eighteen who will join the Brasschaat unit. Candidates are currently taking the medical examinations. Entry into service is scheduled for December 2021 and January 2022. They will depend on the progress and conclusions of the medical examinations. On 8 October, a sergeant promotion procedure was published: 7 for Brasschaat and 9 for Crisnea. Appointments will take place in December 2021 and January 2022. A new consultation of the recruitment reserve for sappers will be launched shortly: 12 for Brasschaat and 17 for Crisnea. Their entry into service is expected in the first quarter of 2022. In the course of next year, there will still be the publication of selections for sergeants (6 in Brasschaat) and captains (4 in Brasschaat and 6 in Crisnea). Finally, in the course of 2022, a new selection procedure for sappers will be launched in order to have a recruitment reserve. Investments in rolling stock and non-rolling equipment, as well as specialized training, are planned for civil protection, depending on the tasks and tasks assigned to it in accordance with the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 determining the missions and tasks of civil security carried out by the relief zones and by the operational units of civil protection. These investments will be made to complement existing equipment and equipment, as well as to replace defective or obsolete equipment and equipment, not to mention strengthening staff skills. Depending on the budgetary means available, priorities are set on the basis of needs analyses. For example, markets are being developed for divewear, disposable chemical protective clothing, vehicles, FOROP training, and dispatch and geolocation systems. The optimal location of these units is precisely one of the aspects of the university study on the evaluation of civil protection that I have already mentioned before this committee. It is therefore on the basis of the results of this study that I will base myself on the possibility of setting up new barracks or not. Two offers were received as a result of the public procurement launched for the conduct of this university study; the analysis of the offers is under way and I hope to be able to award the contract in the near future. The successful claimant will then have the time to complete the study: approximately seven months have been planned for this purpose. The final results of the study can therefore be expected in the summer of 2022. The study will be followed by a steering committee, which will include the Director-General for Civil Security and various civil protection partners in the relief areas. An interim report must be prepared by the claimant about midway through the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm glad to learn about hiring new recruits. I would like to know the budget allocated to this operation. I will ask you a written question to get more specific details about this, but in any case, knowing that commitments are planned and that the capacity of our firefighters will be increased is a rejoicing new.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u44	Minister, a Royal Order of 14 August 2018 on the psychological examination of peacekeepers has just clarified certain obligations already provided for in the Act of 15 July 2018. The fullest possible training for peacekeepers is obviously necessary and guarantees difficult field work, better working conditions and public intervention. In this respect, the psychotechnical test defined in this new royal decree provides for two tests: a personality questionnaire and an interview managed by an expert in selection within the Selor. The psychotechnical examination certificate is then issued. According to the information provided, the examination evaluates certain specific competences in terms of respect for one's neighbour, civic sense, ability to cope with aggressive behaviour, respect for duties and procedures, and verifies the absence of danger to public order. This examination is a prerequisite for exercising the profession of peacekeeper and the guidelines provided by BeSafe state that there is no possibility of resumption. Minister, what psychotechnical data were examined for the selection of peacekeeper candidates prior to the coming into force of this Royal Order? How are the criteria for the success of this review determined? Who can be a selection expert for this exam? What exactly does the impossibility of recovery mean? For peacekeepers hired since October 6, 2018, is a professional file analysed by the reviewer as part of the psychotechnical examination? Is there a planned contact with the officer in charge of the peacekeeper under review? Considering that success is an indispensable condition for guards engaged since October 6, 2018, what procedure is determined in the case of failure to pass this examination by one of these guards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u45	Dear colleague, the obligation to undergo a psychotechnical examination applies to all peacekeepers engaged after October 5, 2018. The Royal Decree of 14 August 2021 on the organization of the Psychotechnical Examination for Peacekeepers and Peacekeepers provides more information on the conduct of the examination from 1 October 2021. The psychotechnical examination makes it possible to check whether the candidate guardian of the peace meets the desired profile, characterized by respect for one's neighbour, civic sense, an ability to cope with aggressive behaviour on the part of third parties and to control oneself in such situations, respect for duties and procedures and the absence of danger to public order. Psychotechnical examinations were conducted and evaluated by Selor. The psychotechnical examination consists of two parts: a computerised part where participants must give their opinion on various proposals submitted, followed by an oral part in which a psychologist reviews the results with the candidate and asks for clarification of the deviant choices made during the computerised part. If a candidate fails to pass the psychotechnical examination, he or she cannot act as a peacekeeper. The municipality cannot recruit the candidate. A reorientation within the municipality may be envisaged, but the municipalities are free to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u46	Minister, thank you for that answer. I have two additional information. The examination consists of two parts: computerised and oral with a psychologist, and there is an obligation to pass the examination. If the candidate fails to do so, the municipality cannot make its commitment. It's very good that there's this exam. The communes will therefore manage with the candidates who would not succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u47	Madam Minister, with the new recruitment procedure, local police areas will be given more levers to tie the interested candidates more to their police areas at an early stage. This is a good thing, but at the same time we must be vigilant about the perverse effects of the new elements of the selection concept. The possibility of developing regional campaigns has quickly become an opbodrace between the different local police zones. We've already read that in the press. A number of police chiefs from the Flemish Rand also share this concern. We also know that the areas that will offer the most attractive formula will gain more often from smaller corps that do not have many attractive benefits. This is an often unfair battle to win new agents over. This is also the case in the Flemish Rand, where we must fight not only against financial and material matters but also against the Brussels police zones, which can increase their attractiveness with the Brussels premium and language premiums. Madam Secretary, do you see the need to streamline this bid between local police areas? Do you consider this possible by means of a debriefing letter? Could the General Inspection be responsible for this? What are the trade unions' views on this? Specifically for police forces in the Flemish Edge around Brussels one could provide for an Edge Premium to increase the attractiveness of the area.We are also facing a metropolitan problem if it appears in a reasonable time that the influx into the police zones in the Flemish Edge does not produce the desired results. How do you feel about this suggestion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u48	Minister, you have initiated a new recruitment and selection process since September 14, 2021. The much more direct integration of the directorates of the local police areas is a good thing. The acceleration of the various stages of the procedure, notably through the digitization of certain forms and questionnaires, also seems to be a good thing in view of the lack of staff in the services. Among the changes, it is also anticipated that compensation will be provided earlier in the selection and training process. While this new procedure must of course be confronted with the reality of the ground in local police areas, some questions already appear to arise, in particular regarding the planning of needs that would have to be communicated very early in the light of the risks of early departure, NAPAP or illness and concerning the financing of the salaries of the aspirants. Minister, at what point, within the 18-week period, is the applicant paid? What is the additional period during which remuneration will have to be provided compared to the previous procedure? Is it the federal police that will still be in charge of this compensation during this engagement process? When are police zone managements to report their staffing requirements for the following year under this new procedure? Has the deadline been the subject of a consultation with the directorates of the zones? Have you received any specific requests on this subject and any information on risks regarding this time frame for personnel planning to be established in the areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, within the new concept of selection and recruitment, there is indeed greater responsibility for local areas and for federal services. Several initiatives have already been taken by the federal police to promote cooperation at the level of the provinces and regions. Local police zones should not be allowed to compete with each other in an unhealthy way. The provincial partnerships are also a counterweight to the possible competition and focus on the content of the police jobs in the different zones and services with which those zones and services could be distinguished. Of course, I am also aware of the problems of the Brussels border. As far as the Edge premium is concerned, a few years ago it was decided to abolish many premiums. On the basis of the information I have today, we would once again create problems with a so-called 'Side premium'. So it would mean a shift of the problem. Specific and targeted campaigns were launched in collaboration with the police school, specifically aimed at the Brussels Rand, to attract new candidates. Ms. Taquin, the aspirant inspector is not paid during the selection process. He is from the first day of his training. The 18-week deadline refers to the selection procedure followed by the basic training of inspectors, which remains for a period of one year. Therefore, there is no anticipated additional duration. The costs of training are borne by the federal police, as I have just said. Each year, the federal police conduct a needs survey of local police areas to estimate their staffing needs for a period of five years. This survey, sent at the beginning of the year to all police areas, is an additional tool to estimate the annual recruitment needs of the integrated police force. This is an indicative survey, which does not commit to any results towards the areas at the recruitment level. Throughout the year, local police areas express their personnel needs through publications of vacant internal mobility places. When a post remains vacant after an internal mobility publication, police zones may publish it on the Jobpol website. The latter is accessible to any new candidates wishing to join the integrated police force. In the future, the winners of external selections will be taken over for 24 months in the recruitment reserve, a reserve from which the police areas will be able to draw in order to select their candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u50	Madam Minister, I would like to urge you to get rid of this unfair competition. I understand the police zones, of course they want as many people as possible in their area, but the current system is already creating competition today. You are not going to accept my proposal to introduce an edge premium because you are afraid that it would shift the problem, but why not abolish the Brussels premium? Wouldn't that be a good proposal? I can imagine that this is difficult, but if it is not a good idea for this reason, I think that the Brussels grant is also unjustified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u51	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for the answers. I will probably come back to her later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u52	Mr. Chair, Minister, an independent report on the management of waterways points to the federal government's responsibility for flooding. He noted the impossibility of establishing an operational command post, which prevented the reporting of information from the ground. It is also established that the emergency plan for dam risks in the province of Liège was only being developed at the time of the floods. Finally, it appears that these dams are not on the list of sensitive infrastructures. In conclusion, I would like to hear your reaction to the findings of this independent report. Do you recognize the federal government's responsibility in these matters? What steps have been taken to rectify this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u53	Mr Boukili, as I have already explained, the report will obviously be carefully analysed by the Crisis Centre. This is only the first part of this independent report. The Crisis Centre awaits the full report as well as that of the Walloon Parliament's committee of inquiry before deciding on the conclusions. I will not repeat the crisis management system, which has been divided into several phases: the communal, provincial and federal phase. But it is clear that, in managing the crisis, the levels of power act together. Thus, in the provincial phase, the mayors also take the necessary interim measures to limit the consequences of the emergency situation. I have already explained on several occasions that the federal flood phase was triggered on 15 July at 2.30 p.m. In order to implement this federal phase, governors and mayors rely on the minister's strategic coordination in their territory through the implementation of the minister's decisions. They can also take the necessary complementary measures, coordinate disciplines and raise the needs of the field. We therefore work together with the governors and the mayors even after the start of a federal phase. The governors were instructed at the COFECO meetings on 15 July at 5.30 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. to conduct preventive evacuations. As I explained to Parliament last Thursday, evacuation orders had already been made by the mayors and governors. It is true that the crisis management of this structure derives from the purpose of the specific scope of the legislation concerned. In this case, this is the law of 1 July 2011 on the security and protection of critical infrastructure. As you know, critical infrastructure is limited to the energy, transport, finance, health, drinking water, digital infrastructure and electronic communications sectors. The Crisis Centre plays a coordinating and advisory role to the sectoral authorities. However, it is the responsibility of the sectoral authorities to identify the national and European infrastructures within their competence on the basis of analysis and criteria. According to the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019, emergency situations may be the subject of either operational coordination, strategic coordination or both. Emergency situations requiring the coordination of several relevant actors in the field are subject to operational coordination. Coordination needs, in particular the need for a PC-Ops or not, are assessed in consultation with the intervention services involved in the field. This does not mean that without PC-Ops, there is no coordination on the ground. In the case of the July floods, it is not for the Crisis Centre to decide on the choice of provincial governors whether or not to set up PC-Ops. This is an operational decision that does not fall within the remit of the Minister of the Interior in an emergency situation. As is the case after each crisis managed in the federal phase, an evaluation will be carried out under the leadership of the Crisis Centre in close collaboration with all the partners involved, which will help to highlight the lessons to be learned. The Learning Commission will also be launched to learn from this tragedy. Each authority will be responsible for adapting its contingency plans to incorporate lessons learned. This work remains to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In fact, there was a chaotic communication. There was a lack of a command post. It went all the way. We can turn the ball over for a long time and say it's the responsibility of the governor, the region, the federal government. The fact is that, on the ground, the management of this crisis has been catastrophic. Today, a report points to the federal responsibility. You say you do not want to vote on this report before the final report and before the committee of inquiry. However, the elements we have today, as well as the experience of the victims on the ground, which we have seen with our own eyes in supporting them, deserve much more in-depth treatment than a learning commission or an evaluation of the Crisis Centre. It is essential that there be a federal commission of inquiry into the federal responsibility to deal with this crisis. In your opinion, we must wait for the results of the regional commission of inquiry. If its results are so important that they are expected to have a clearer view of the situation, a federal commission of inquiry will be equally important and indispensable. If we really want to learn from what has happened, it is much more interesting to set up a commission of inquiry rather than a commission of learning, because the committee of inquiry will allow us to point out the responsibilities of each and the flaws of the institutions, and also to avoid such disasters in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u55	Mr President, Mr Segers, the phenomena of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings are certainly dealt with in the basic training of police inspectors. The themes are studied in cluster 6 'Specific jurisdictions', in particular through the learning objectives, by illustrating, on the basis of examples, the criminal provisions relating to trafficking in human beings and aggravating circumstances. The five specific objectives of exploitation, namely sexual and economic exploitation, begging, forced crime and organ trafficking, are being studied. The average time spent in police schools is four hours. In addition, our future police inspectors learn to assess through cluster 8 'Police care and assistance' to which partners victims should be referred if they turn to them. Four lessons will be devoted to identifying possible internal and external partners and their respective areas of activity. In addition, two hours are devoted to the different types of victims and their more specific needs, including victims of trafficking in human beings. All police schools are obliged to comply with the curriculum for basic training of the basic framework. Each police school recruits and selects the members of its teaching staff. They may be internal police or external personnel, provided of course that they are experts in the matter. A working group is currently developing specific training in this area, which will complement the functional training of the judicial police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u56	Madam Minister, I must confess that the answer surprises me somewhat, because it runs counter to what I myself had heard from a number of actors in the field. I had received several signals that there is no full-time training and that no one seems to have a view of what exactly is happening. There would certainly be no elaborate training. There would also appear to be large differences between the provinces. Given that the government agreement stipulates that the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is an absolute policy priority, it is essential that we live up to that provision and that there is a detailed basic training. So I will test your answer again with the people I spoke to. I shall certainly come back to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u57	Mr Pivin, for the police, information on the organisation of these citizen panels has been forwarded to our Circulation contact points. Given the modalities of these panels, everyone was free to register and participate, not only as a police officer but also as a citizen. We do not have any information on the possible involvement of the integrated police. Apart from these citizen consultations, there is a regular consultation between the office of the Minister of Mobility and mine on this plan. The draft plan is also submitted to the Federal Road Safety Commission, in which the police are represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u59	Mr President, Minister, my question is in line with the questions that have been asked today and perhaps also in recent weeks about the floods. Eddy De Valck, the chief odontologist of the DVI team, stated that when the flood victims were identified, five days were lost because his team did not have all the dental records of the missing persons and he therefore pleads for a central database. What do you think of the idea of a central database in which all dental data is stored? If you are in favour of this, when could that database be there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u60	Mr President, Mr De Caluwé, first of all it is appropriate to express my gratitude for the days of sustained commitment of the Disaster Victim Identification team following the terrible floods that occurred in our country in July. I agree with your observation that a victim identification as soon as possible is very important for the next of kin and therefore for the treatment during the grieving process. Dental analysis by odontologists is indeed one of the most important methods of identification following such disasters, which fortunately do not occur every day in our country. Dental information, however, concerns protected medical data that are present in different databases related to health care. Bringing all that data into a central dental database is therefore not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I also hear you acknowledge the importance of this, so that is already important. I have submitted the same question to the Minister of Health, so I assume she will be one of the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, you know that the specific nature of the police profession makes it a very different profession from others, because of risk taking, increasing threats, lack of staff, etc. The mental burden of the police officer is increasing. Early reports indicate more than 30 suicides among the police during the first half of 2021. In addition, these tragedies would affect half of the police under the age of 40. Studies had already been carried out on the subject, particularly in 2018. The situation at the level of mental load called for management measures. Minister, what has been the trend since then in the number of suicides in the federal police and police areas? In 2019, it was reported that the suicide rate in the police services was no higher than for the rest of the Belgian population. Is the finding still the same today? In 2018, the IDEWE medical group had produced a report deemed essential by the police representatives. What recommendations have been followed up and what concrete decisions have been made for the well-being of our police officers after this report, apart from traditional briefings? Is a specific unit within the federal police, and/or for local areas, in charge of this situation in order to assess the capabilities of psychosocial prevention services and stress teams? What specific programmes are being studied and delivered for intervention teams in this field?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u63	Mr. President, Mr. Pivin, every suicide is too much suicide. Measures are being put in place to assist police officers in need of support. If we look at the figures, between 2016 and 2019, the number of suicides tended to decrease. Unfortunately, this trend has reversed for the year 2020. It is very difficult to give the cause(s) because even though 2020 has put great pressure on law enforcement, any suicide is not systematically linked to work. No significant difference can be observed between the number of suicides in the local police and the federal police. The Internal Occupational Prevention and Protection Service has organized for the Federal Police Working Groups by Directorate to establish an action plan and preventive measures arising from the general risk analysis of IDEWE. However, due to the current pandemic, the planning had to be adapted. Various measures already exist within the police. Analyses of overall risks and specific work situations are carried out continuously in order not only to be able to carry out a mapping of psychosocial risks, but also to take individual and collective measures to prevent such risks. In the case of the federal police, prevention cards are drawn up, following accidents or incidents involving them, in an attempt to learn from them and to avoid, to the extent possible, the recurrence of the same type of event. The psychosocial support service supports staff members who have a suicidal problem and also supports colleagues when such an event occurs. This service also provides annual emotional supervision to staff members for whom the nature of the mission is particularly emotional in nature, in order to prevent and reduce the risk of developing stress, trauma or burn-out. In addition, there are stress teams in some police areas. Provincial services, as well as external occupational prevention and protection services, also support staff members. The capacity of the psychosocial prevention service is continuously monitored. Currently, a commitment of three new advisers is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. A lot of resources are being deployed. I sincerely hope that, at the beginning of 2022, we can see that the trend for 2021 does not reinforce the phenomenon seen in 2020 and is rather declining. There is much talk of training and recruitment, but the issue of suicides is also of great concern. I intend to ask you in writing in order to obtain more information on the distribution between suicides strictly related to work and those related to other causes, whether family or other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u65	Minister, I wanted to take stock, more than a month after the arrest of the individual who had assaulted five police officers. Is detention - in the form of an electronic bracelet - still under way? The individual had to be placed in pre-trial detention at his mother's house with an electronic bracelet. Have you also taken any guarantees that the constitutions of the civilian parties in support of the police will be properly carried out, in accordance with Circular COL 2017? Are the insurance and medical care procedures for police officers in order? Are the police victims waiting for answers on this subject? And finally, the question is not easy, but according to your information, when will the case come before the court, before a trial judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u66	My colleague, this is a case of violence against a member of the local police and it is indeed the municipality which is competent to take the appropriate measures for the assistance of its police officers. It is therefore not up to the Belgian State to take measures to establish a civil party. Nevertheless, I can inform you that the constitutions of the civilian parts of the five police officers in the Brussels-West police zone were deposited with the investigating judge on 1 October. This follows its course. Workers' accidents were immediately reported and accepted by the insurer of this policy area. In addition, the five police officers obtained legal assistance on the basis of article 52 of the Police Function Act. Their legal fees will therefore be borne by the police zone. With regard to the pre-trial detention of the person concerned, the follow-up of the placement by electronic bracelet is fixed in the correctional court. I cannot provide you with any information on this, because it is the exclusive competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you about the security situation in the areas surrounding the North Railway Station and the station itself. Specific actions by the federal police take place without effectively neutralizing the daily insecurity in this area. Recently, a large riparian company has announced that it will have to provide escorts for its employees who will have to reach the station after the usual peak hours, when the influx is reduced and the risk of aggression increases. At the same time, the local authorities are now questioning the work of the Aliens Office and the effective follow-up of its services following the latest police interventions and the arrest of persons who are in fact illegally staying. Minister, what specific measures are being taken by the federal police at these locations? On what basis are the one-shot interventions decided? What structural decisions are taken by the federal police in collaboration with the local police and SNCB to secure this sensitive perimeter in a sustainable manner? What cooperation do you have directly with the mayors of the communes that are experiencing this insecurity in the perimeter of the Gare du Nord? What requests, if any, have you made to SNCB to help secure the premises? Have you received requests and proposals for specific actions from local authorities? If so, which ones? Finally, what specific criticisms have been made of the Aliens Office and what steps have you taken with your colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this phenomenon, a Medusa platform has been set up at the level of the Brussels Director-Coordinator. The aim of this platform is to exchange information and to organise, after consultation with the partners involved, planned actions in and around the Brussels-Nord railway station. It allows all actors to give and have an image of the situation they are facing. This platform is open to police areas, the PJF Brussels, the DAO, the Railway Police, the Office for Foreigners, SNCB, STIB and De Lijn. At the meetings, opportunities for cross-cutting and integrated actions are discussed. It is a coordination and support platform. This platform meets every two months or more closely if there is an operational need. Medusa coordination meetings were held on 9 September and 8 October as part of the activities organized on the BruNo police zone, and on 14 October in the presence of all partners. Following the meeting of the platform on 14 October, the North Brussels area reported that targeted and regular actions would be organised up to and including 25 October. Federal police support was sought and the will of the area concerned was heard. Both human resources and specialized support strengthened the local police in Brussels Nord during these actions. Moreover, for many months, according to the availability of the CIK in Brussels, staff have been made available to the area in question as part of its Noordpool actions, in connection with the problem. In general, the Brussels Railway Police is directly concerned for the Brussels Nord railway part and for the NCC part. The BruNo police area is concerned with the vicinity of the train station. The finding is that nuisances are concentrated mainly in this northern district. The SPC Brussels, the SNCB Police and Securail areas each occupy their respective areas of action with patrols. However, targeted actions are also being carried out by the BruNo police zone with the support of the CIK of the Federal Police. On 19 October, a consultation was held with the mayors of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode and Schaerbeek, representatives of the area of Brussels Nord, representatives of the Brussels-Capital Region, the office of the Minister of Justice, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and the Office of the Interior, on the security situation in the neighbourhoods of the Brussels-Nord railway station. The consultation took place in an open and constructive spirit. It was not a time for criticism or criticism, but rather for the search for structural and lasting solutions to ensure the safety of both commuters and local residents and traders. In collaboration with all partners (SNCB, the Public Prosecutor's Office, Fedasil, the Aliens Office, the Federal Police and the local police), a sustainable and integrated approach will be pursued, in which the whole range of measures – from orientation to detention and removal – will be applied. In the very short term, further consultations with all relevant units will be held to assess and monitor the situation and to take further action on the ground. As regards the second question by Mr. From Smet, I invite him to speak to my colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration in order to convey the message to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u69	Minister, the situation at the North Station and its perimeter is amazing. For the image of Brussels alone, the situation is scandalous! I sincerely hope that all the measures that will be deployed will bring about a radical change. I would invite you to go incognito to walk around one night and see if, as a French or Dutch foreigner, you would like to take a step outside, at the exit of the train, seeing what you will see there. On several occasions, I had the opportunity to realize that. The situation is extremely challenging. I invite you to remain very attentive to this being in charge of security also at the Gare du Nord. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u70	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u71	Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not obvious for my services to provide very detailed data and figures within a particularly short time frame. With regard to your questions for which you are requesting figures, I propose that, given the quantitative nature of the figures requested and the necessary analysis of my services, you send them to me in writing. It is true that participation in the Joint Cybercrime Action Task Force certainly represents added value for our country in the fight against cybercrime. Thus, we are literally and figuratively around the table with regard to the coordination of international investigations into complex cybercrime. This also strengthens Belgium's international commitment to the fight against cybercrime. I am also pleased to inform you that the recent application by the federal police to join the J-CAT has received a positive response from Europol. The selected candidate will be deployed in The Hague from 1 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u74	Mr Van Hees, thank you for your question, which has received my full attention. Relief zones have independent legal personality and are the primary responsibility for their operation. It is up to them to take the necessary action to be operational. This requires, in particular, the necessary operational risk analysis, a staff plan and an investment plan for the purchase of equipment in line with this risk analysis. I will ask the Directorate-General for Civil Security, and more specifically for the inspection, to contact the emergency zone to ensure that the area takes the necessary steps to avoid this type of problem. With regard to the financing of the Hainaut-Centre area, it now consists of two types of federal endowments: first, the basic and supplementary allocations provided for in Article 69 of the Civil Security Act 2007. This amounts to €9,169,743.91 in 2021 for the Hainaut-Centre area. There are also two specific allocations based on articles 219/2 and 219/3 of the above-mentioned Act, in order to enable the area to carry out its tasks within the framework of the Shape. These allocations for the year 2021 amount to EUR 2 500 000 and EUR 259 100.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You refer to autonomous legal personality, but in this case there is clearly an understaffing. The existence of understaffing often reflects a funding problem, and it is known that relief areas are underfunded. That, in my view, is the crux of the problem. The solution is therefore to better finance these relief areas, whether in Binche or elsewhere. I hear you're going to ask management to look at the situation, but for me, the most important thing is funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic615x.u76	The following questions were postponed to a next meeting.
