ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u1	The Flemish Interest warned earlier about problems related to data retention legislation. In October 2020, we interrupted the Minister and asked in a motion of recommendation to address the issue with urgency. The Minister replied that he would not wait for the judgment of the Constitutional Court on this matter and would like to review the case. Indeed, the investigators must still have the means to carry out research, in which data are very important. We now see that nothing has happened in this area. We had warned in advance of this legal uncertainty. In ongoing proceedings, judges have the choice of whether or not to use data. This is another area where legal uncertainty has arisen. That is why I have again submitted an interplay request. What initiatives have you taken to bring the legislation into line with the request of the Constitutional Court? France also received a conviction. The existing data retention legislation is still being worked on there. The country simply ignored the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I already asked in my previous interview and I ask again: how are the other EU countries doing? Did you get a look at that? What solutions do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u2	Minister, like the previous speaker, I have already asked twice about the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 2 March, which was in line with the judgment of October 2019. I've always kept following up on the issue. After all, data retention is a very important element in our criminal investigations. The latest judgment, dated 22 April, does not come as a surprise. It clearly states that the general and undifferentiated retention of data violates the right to privacy. That's exactly what we've been afraid of. If electronic data can no longer be stored without any reason, which would be the result of the judgment, it will be much more difficult, for example, to find a missing person or to solve a crime. The Court stated that it is up to the competent courts to decide in ongoing investigations whether dates may still be used, but that is no longer the case for new investigations. In reply to my previous questions on this subject, you said that consultations were already under way both at European level and in the government in order to reach a solution. A solution seems to me to be urgently needed today. The legislation has already been reformed, hoping that hemee had been given an adequate solution, but apparently there is much more to be demanded. Mr. Secretary, are the dates still being kept today? Does it happen here like in France? For France, that case-law can go down, France continues to apply it and ignores the judgment. If the data are saved, how long will they be saved? How do you see the new criminal investigations, pending a solution, without the retention of electronic data? I believe I have read that consultations have already taken place with the investigators and prosecutors. If that has happened, can you explain this discussion further? If it hasn't happened yet, I advise you to do so. I also read in the press that there was an agreement in the government on a solution, which talks about a lasagna system. Can you explain what this solution means in concrete terms? I like to eat lasagna, but a legal lasagna is also a new concept for me. Is there any movement at European level? Will there be a solution at European level? After all, our country is not the only country affected, and that justice is, frankly, a serious handicap for our investigators and the criminal investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u3	Mr President, first of all I would like to refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u4	An important point for me is the issue of the European Quadrature du net judgment, which precedes the decision of our Constitutional Court. It seems that the European Court of Justice considers that data retention may be justified in the interests of national security, whereas this is not the case for ordinary crime, given the 2002 Directive. The distinction between national security and crime is particularly difficult to draw, for example in the context of terrorism, but I assume that your services are currently considering this. After all, if greater data retention can be allowed in the interests of national security and not in the interests of combating ordinary crime, then we should consider using that portal at least in anticipation and allowing for a wider data retention. Finally, and following on from Mrs De Wit's question, the longer I think that these kinds of questions are essentially settled at the European level. In my previous mandate, I have tried to make progress in e-evidence, particularly as regards access to the servers of our international and, above all, American providers. That is an important question, because I have the impression that the European Court is already choking on the issue for the third time, resulting in strange twists and turns. Is it not high time we tried to create a new data retention directive at European level twenty years after the last one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u5	Minister, in 2016, the majority voted on a law requiring telephone operators to keep the connection data for 12 to 18 months for all telephone calls or by e-mail on Belgian territory. This law has been the subject of a shielding in civil society, denouncing the massive surveillance it was putting in place, not only of perpetrators of serious crimes but also of the entire population. The Constitutional Court has followed these criticisms and has just overturned most of the law, stating that such methods cannot be used on a daily basis to monitor 11 million people. Minister, do you agree with the interpretation of the Constitutional Court and will you give up putting in place such dangerous projects for our freedoms in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u6	Minister, how do you assess the impact of the cancellation of these articles on ongoing trials? Do the police and intelligence services continue to make use of this data retained under the 2016 Act? What are the government's preferred ways of adapting legislation to the Constitutional Court's ruling? Is the geographic criterion track a valid track? If so, how could this geographical discrimination be justified? Since all European countries are now confronted with the limitations of the case law of the European Court of Justice, do other European countries, to your knowledge, have put in place mechanisms from which we could draw inspiration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. You're right, there's a lot at stake. I will answer your questions in some detail. First of all, the judgment. Like you, I have taken note of the judgment of the Constitutional Court on 22 April, which, following the judgment of 6 October of the European Court of Justice, immediately annulled the law of 29 May 2016. Once you have read the judgment of the Constitutional Court, you will find that it has practically taken on board the argument of the European Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, you rightly point out that telecommunications data are essential in criminal investigations. In 90 per cent of criminal cases, the judiciary and the police use telephone data to resolve cases. That is precisely why this data is an extremely important weapon for our intelligence and security services in the fight against organised crime, serious crime and terrorism. Indeed, in the Committee on Justice of 28 October 2020, I replied that it would not be easy to provide a solution that meets the views of the Court of Justice and which would at the same time be a workable tool for our judicial authorities and the security services. It is therefore a very delicate balancing exercise between the fundamental right to privacy and the fundamental right to security. The fact that privacy is a fundamental right is indisputable. On the other hand, the right to security is also paramount, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the tension is great. At a time when the judiciary must, more than ever, be able to work with electronic data, there is a great risk that it will be deprived of legal means to do so. If we allow this to happen, we will primarily serve criminals rather than our privacy. I do not need to convince you of the importance of data in the fight against crime and terrorism. This concerns identification, identifying who is behind which screen or device. Furthermore, it is about localization, checking where that person uses his screen or device. Traffic is also important, to find out who has been in contact with who. All these data may be crucial, but it is sufficient to mention the ongoing research into Sky ECC in this context. You know that access to these data is strictly and properly regulated in our country, through the Code of Criminal Procedure in the context of criminal investigations and through the intelligence services law for an investigation. The Constitutional Court has not touched on the very tight regulations governing access to our services. It is important to stress this, because these arrangements already offer guarantees to citizens today. So they're not free letters to the intelligence and police services. It goes without saying that the government, particularly the ministers responsible for Telecommunications, Defence, Privacy and Justice, will respect the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Since the judgment of the Court of Justice of October 2020, our services have been working hard on concrete texts to establish a clear legal framework, as a useful and efficient instrument in the fight against crime. We have not waited for the Constitutional Court's ruling, but, of course, the Constitutional Court's vision is necessary in order to finalise the solutions that have been worked out so far. Mrs Bury, you asked how people deal with this in other countries. Within the Member States of the European Union, the rules governing the retention of such data differ. States such as Germany, Hungary, Spain, Croatia, Denmark, Latvia, Ireland, Poland, Greece, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Estonia, Italy, Luxembourg and Malta have a general data retention regime that is still in force. Other Member States have a more limited or even no data retention regime. Sweden, Finland, Romania and Slovakia, for example, apply limited retention for certain categories of data, services and operators. Following the judgments of the European Court of Justice, Slovenia and Austria no longer have a general or targeted system of data retention. In addition, some Member States are working on new legislation. In France, the Council of State took a decision on 21 April 2021. So, Mrs De Wit, it is not the case that the French Government does not care, it respects the legislation but also the case law. The French Council of State has stated that the general preservation of data is justified by the threat to national security and the fight against serious crime. However, it considered that the obligation to retain data in general for purposes other than national security, including criminal proceedings, was unlawful. The French Government now has six months to change the legislative framework and to re-evaluate the threat to national security in order to justify the use of data by an independent authority. Ireland, Croatia, Luxembourg, Latvia and Denmark are considering drafting new legislation taking into account the judgments of the European Court of Justice. Moreover, the Netherlands has drafted a data retention law, but it is limited to identification data. Finally, a German case is pending before the European Court of Justice. A specific working group of the Council of the European Union meets on a regular basis to exchange information between Member States and to seek solutions. The judgments of the Court of Justice represent a challenge for all Member States. Mr Nones, I have already discussed this with several colleagues in bilateral and European contexts and with the European Commissioner responsible for this, our fellow countryman Didier Reynders. The question does indeed arise, Mr Geens, whether, sooner or later, a European solution is required. During the JAI of March 2021, I advocated a European solution, following the various judgments of the European Court of Justice. It is appropriate to seek harmonisation at European level and, at the same time, to continue at national level pending such harmonisation. At the same time, I have advocated an EU instrument that does not impose any additional restrictions, on top of those already provided for by the European Court of Justice, because the exercise will in itself create sufficient challenge. I also advocated an instrument that would provide the necessary flexibility for the Member States so that the data retention regime would remain possible on the basis of the other data retention options. Thirdly, Mrs De Wit, the consequences for the ongoing and the new investigations. With regard to the ongoing investigations, the applicants explicitly requested that the removal of the obligation to keep data necessarily result in the removal of access to such data. The Court expressly did not agree to that. If you have read the judgment, you have also established it. The Court expressly leaves that to the appreciation of the fundamental court in an individual case. The Court expressly refers to the so-called Anti-Gun Article, the well-known Article 32 of the Prior Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In recital B.25.3, the Constitutional Court states, I quote: "that it is for the competent criminal court to rule on the admissibility of the evidence collected in the implementation of the provisions destroyed in accordance with Article 32 and in the light of the clarifications made by the Court of Justice in the judgment of 6 October 2020 referred to above." In other words, when data covered by the data retention obligation is used in ongoing investigations, it is not necessary to exclude that evidence. It is up to the competent criminal court to rule on this on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, there is already a case-law which confirms that view. Article 32 provides that evidence must only be excluded "if the evidence is unreliable, if it constitutes a violation of the right to a fair trial or if the substantive forms have not been respected". Mrs De Wit, to your question as to whether the dates are still being kept, I can answer in the affirmative, in so far as the judgment of the Constitutional Court has no effect unless it has been published in the Belgian Official Journal. But this is a short period of time. After publication, it is effectively uncertain which data will be kept. As regards new criminal investigations, it is important to point out that the provisions on the retrieval of identification, traffic and location data, both in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Act of 13 November 1998 remain in full force for the intelligence and security services. That's what I've been talking about, and I'll repeat it here. Both the judicial authorities and the intelligence and security services can continue to request data from telecom operators. Your statement that data should no longer be used in new investigations is therefore not entirely correct. Telecom providers also store data for their own use, for example for billing or other purposes. The providers are obliged, on the basis of the law, to cooperate with the judicial authorities and with the intelligence and security services when they request information. Only, of course, if the operators do not have this information, they will not be able to be communicated. It is therefore extremely important to quickly establish a clear legal framework that remains a useful and efficient instrument in the fight against crime and also ensures privacy. That brings me to my final point. How are we gonna fix the arrest? Now that the Constitutional Court has confirmed the views of the European Court, the new regime will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. The necessary opinions may then be obtained. Then, of course, this text will be submitted to Parliament. It is important that we have a good parliamentary debate on this. Let us take advantage of this judgment in this House, too, to strengthen the debate on privacy and security. Following the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 6 October and 22 April, widespread and undifferentiated retention of data is no longer possible. It is clear that a correct answer to the judgment of the Constitutional Court lies in the necessary proportionality and differentiation in the retention of data. Hence the word lasagna. How long can data collected at a given location be kept, and what data exactly is it about? The proportional answer to that question results in a matrix, a patchwork, a lasagna. It is a lasagna of measures that must be acceptable to our security services and at the same time comply with the judgment. The European Court of Justice has a number of points of reference for this, especially as regards threats to national security, which are primarily the responsibility of the intelligence services. It concerns, in particular, a differentiated retention of traffic and localisation data and a general and undifferentiated retention obligation, limited in time, which could, for example, be imposed by an exceptional intelligence method or if the national threat level re-enters the level. In addition, the intelligence and security services may also have access to data stored on the basis of geographical criteria, as the Court says, and which are also explicitly mentioned by the Court. Collègue Thibaut, these geographical criteria are explicitly appointed by the Court. These geographical criteria are, for example, places where there is a high level of crime, where there is an increased risk of serious crime, places frequently visited by a large number of people or places where there is a potential threat to the vital interests of the country or the essential needs of the population. They can also be strategic places such as airports. In addition, intelligence and security services may also have access to data processed by operators for purposes of invoicing, fraud prevention, network security or marketing. Finally, Mr Geens, you asked if operators with a valid consent of the data subject could keep all traffic and location data for a long time, for example for marketing purposes. Allow me to refer you to my colleague, Mrs de Sutter, for that question. I've got a few things in mind with her. She'll answer that. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was a great deal, for which I apologise. However, these were important questions. Our security services produce results every day, including on the basis of data. They deserve all the praise and respect for the safety of all of us. They do so under the control of independent magistrates, namely the prosecutor, the investigating judge and the BIM Committee. That principle remains beyond doubt. At the same time, we are looking for a solution, so that the data can be kept in a way that the European Court of Justice and our Constitutional Court can pass. Soon I hope to be able to work on this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u8	Minister, you certainly do not have to apologize for such a detailed answer, for which I thank you very much. I am pleased with your statement that the principle remains a reality. You're talking about the next few weeks and short-term. The proposal must first be submitted to the Council of Ministers and then submitted to the committee. Of course we look forward to your proposal, but there is a problem from the publication in the Belgian Official Journal. So when exactly is there a text on the table? There was talk in the press of a lasagna regime, which you have now tried to explain. In doing so, it would be more the exception than the rule that telecom data is not kept. They would certainly be kept in crucial places. But you say that in 90% of cases the data is used. What then happens if a child does not return home is not in such a zone? I understand that we will also debate that point. Either way, we need to keep the finger on the wrist. I am also pleased that the European Member States listed have highlighted, for example France, where there is a certain national threat. Perhaps the problem can be solved by increasing the description of the problem, so that data can be kept up to date. That's an interesting slope. I look forward to your new arrangement, which you will be presenting, and I hope it will be very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. However, we are left with a few questions, including timing. After all, every day for a solution and the concrete effect of the lasagna regime counts. The lasagna must not remain in the oven for too long; it must be ready for consumption as soon as possible. I therefore hope that you will come forward with a proposal very soon, because I am very concerned not only about new criminal records, but also about cases of disappearances, for example. It is difficult to explain in a case of a missing person that we are no longer allowed to use the data to find someone who can still be found or in danger of life. Minister, I understand why privacy is important. The PVDA member even called it essential. But if my kid was missing, privacy can go to hell for me. It is therefore a matter of balancing interests. What is still very strange is that we have already amended the legislation. I hope we can make them even better and more conclusive. For me, data retention is not the problem in itself, but access to it. Since access is strictly regulated, we are looking here, quite frankly, for nails on low water, which jeopardises our security and can prevent results in judicial investigations. It will be difficult to find people who are missing as soon as possible and securely. It is our job to prevent this and to adapt a sleeve as soon as possible. So get the lasagna out of the oven, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to join you at the table to eat him and make sure the problems are solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u10	Mr Minister, perhaps I have not listened carefully and it is certainly not important enough to go into this now, but I have the impression that you have not taken into account data retention for the sake of national security more easily than for the sake of the fight against crime. But you are forgiven, because I did not put enough emphasis on it. When you refer me to the Minister responsible for telecommunications as regards the right to retain data relating to customers of telephone providers for reasons other than invoicing, we must nevertheless conclude that our society has some hypocrisy. I find it difficult for a telephone company to keep annual data for commercial reasons, allowing access to such data for investigative purposes of a judicial nature, whereas the State itself cannot request data retention. He must then try to use such windings for the benefit of the State or for the benefit of other purposes. But I understand that Minister De Sutter will explain this to me. I would therefore hope that there will be no double standards at European level as regards commercial violations or use of data in spite of what would be expected under the privacy legislation, since I am being flooded by publicity from morning to evening, which should not be for legitimate research purposes. I would like to clarify this in the long term, but I will address this matter to Minister De Sutter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u11	Minister, in any case, it is necessary to rectify this legislation. I recall that this was already a correction of a 2015 law that was also annulled. It is hoped that this time it will respect people's privacy and follow the Constitutional Court. We will follow this to ensure that the rights of the population are respected. We'll pay attention to it. I would like to reiterate my support for civil society, to stress its efforts and to congratulate it. I am thinking in particular of lawyers.be and the LDH whose action and appeal led to this decision. I hope that this rectification will not be a failure this time, as the previous time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u12	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Have no fear! For my group, the data are weapons, as you have specified, which are very important to the national security of our country. This balance between the right to security and the right to privacy, with proportionality over time, in data collection, etc., must indeed be ensured. I am pleased that you are announcing a parliamentary debate. We will take the time to eat lasagna together, as my colleague De Wit announced. If European harmonisation is desirable, in this restorative law, Mr Minister, we expect it to provide sufficient guarantees before it emerges, so that the data are kept only for a strictly defined period of time and purpose. I will conclude, Minister, by saying that national security must extend from Antwerp to Arlon. But the right to privacy too. When I hear you, I have the impression that if we look only at certain strategic places, at the end of the day, we will monitor more in the cities and less in the countryside. So we won't all be housed in the same sign. I invite us to be very regulatory in relation to this fairness and the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u13	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having heard the interview held in public committee on 5 May 2021 by Ms Katleen Bury on the consequences of partially destroyed data retention legislation by the Constitutional Court following the judgment of the European Court of Justice. - having regard to Mrs Katleen Bury's motion for a recommendation of 28 October 2020, which already pointed out the unsupervised consequences of partial destruction of data retention legislation and the government's negligence to await the judgment of the Constitutional Court; - whereas the interim judgment has particularly great implications, not least with regard to the instruments available for carrying out criminal investigations; - having regard to the ruling of the President of the Research Courts Association that there are almost no cases in which telecom data is not used; - whereas there is also the possibility that the legality of the evidence obtained may be compromised in current criminal proceedings; asks the government: - urgently take the necessary initiatives to submit a repair law and to adapt the relevant legislation so that, on the one hand, the views of the Constitutional Court can be taken into account, but, on the other hand, ongoing criminal proceedings and criminal investigations are not compromised; - examine how other EU countries collect this data and conduct criminal investigations." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - having heard the inquiry put forward by Mrs Katleen Bury on 5 May 2021 at a public meeting of the Committee on Justice on the consequences of the partial annulment of the law on the retention of data by the Constitutional Court following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union; - having regard to Mrs Katleen Bury's motion for recommendation of 28 October 2020, already pointing out the incalculable consequences of a partial annulment of the Data Retention Act and the failure of the Government to await the ruling of the Constitutional Court on this matter; - taking into account the major implications of the judgment rendered, in particular, on the instruments available to carry out a criminal investigation; - considering the statements of the President of the Association of Investigative Judges highlighting the use of telecommunications data in almost all cases; Whereas, moreover, the legality of evidence obtained in ongoing criminal investigations may be compromised; asks the government - to take urgent steps to introduce a bill on reparations and to adapt the relevant legislation in order, on the one hand, to meet the vision of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, not to compromise ongoing and future criminal investigations; - examine the steps taken by other EU Member States to collect such data and conduct criminal investigations." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u14	My colleague, with regard to your first question, on the basis of publicly available information, the State Security concludes that the Liège airport is indeed of strategic importance for the People's Republic of China. This interest is not limited to intelligence and security purposes but can be considered in a broader political and economic context. Article 7 of the Chinese National Intelligence Act 2017 obliges all companies to cooperate with Chinese intelligence agencies. This obligation also applies to Alibaba, regardless of the country in which it operates. In the same law, it is also learned that companies such as Alibaba are required to open positions within the company to Chinese intelligence agents (article 24). In concrete terms, this means that for the Alibaba branch in Liège, through the above-mentioned obligations, Chinese intelligence officers could have access to the sensitive and secure areas of the airport. Alibaba will also have to obey the Chinese security apparatus in case it wishes to have access to the potentially sensitive commercial and personal data held by Alibaba in the course of its activities in Liège. More generally, the Sûreté de l'Etat notes that the Chinese presence at Liège airport is part of the policy of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). With this initiative, the communist regime is trying to get rid of the surplus produced by the Chinese economy through global connectivity. Thanks to the BIS, Beijing is also creating global economic and logistical access points. Given that China has relied heavily on air freight transport since the pandemic and that Beijing plans to build 215 new airports by 2035, the future economic importance of Liège airport for China cannot be underestimated. State Security warns against China's use of economic files to exert political pressure. This is a risk that certainly exists at Liège airport. In addition, I draw your attention to the role played by the Liège airport in the campaign of Chinese interference under the banner of mask diplomacy. In March 2020, the Chinese state media reported that oral masks had arrived in Liège for distribution in Belgium. With this campaign, the Chinese regime tries to present itself as a reliable partner in the fight against covid-19. To answer your second question, the European Regulation of 19 March 2019 establishing a framework for filtering foreign direct investment in the Union entered into force on 11 October 2020. Since then, each Member State has been expected to set up a contact point for the filtering of foreign direct investment. The Regulation calls on Member States to establish a screening mechanism through which foreign investment is examined to determine its possible impact on national security and public order. Our country does not yet have such a mechanism. A provisional solution was found by taking the SPF Economy as the national point of contact. As you know, the SPF Economy, under the direction of its responsible minister, Mr Dermagne, is working hard to develop this mechanism in Belgium. As part of this exercise, we must assess the extent to which our country accepts the risk associated with large investments and the taking of a dominant position on the market by Chinese companies and therefore, by extension, by the Chinese authorities. We have already answered your question about Alibaba's dependence on the latter. Alibaba is nominally a company. However, Chinese legislation allows for extensive state control of private companies that have to comply with the red lines set by the Chinese Communist Party, failing which they are denied access to financing or otherwise thwarted. In addition, a Chinese Communist Party committee is still present in a company the size of Alibaba. The task of these party cells within companies is to ensure that the policies of the Chinese Communist Party are followed by the company. I come to your third question. The State Security does not have sufficient information to answer with certainty the question of whether Alibaba's customer data is provided to the Chinese authorities. However, it is highly likely that such data transfers will occur. It is sufficient here to refer to the 2017 national intelligence law mentioned above, but also to the 2016 national cybersecurity law. This Chinese legislation obliges Chinese companies to store their data on local Chinese servers and gives extended powers to the Chinese security services to consult the company's computer systems both physically and remotely. In addition, security services are allowed to copy data, including data relating to users. This law applies to any company that provides a service via the Internet, including Alibaba. The answer to your fourth question does not fall within the legal competence of the justice services. I note, however, that when Chinese companies set up subsidiaries in third countries, they generally import their Chinese employees into the country concerned; the staffing needs of these companies are often to a large extent met by Chinese nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u15	Minister, I thank you very much for the length and very comprehensiveness of your answer. Frankly, receiving such answers to parliamentary questions contributes to the quality of democratic debate in this Parliament. In substance, I mean that there is a real risk to the protection of our data. You talk about a high probability of data transfer and anchor your response in Chinese domestic law. Of course, we can't doubt that. Secondly, there is a very real risk of hiring intelligence agents in Liège directly, and a certain vulnerability of the Liège airport, particularly vis-à-vis these Chinese jobs which pose a danger to national security. I am concerned about this vulnerability and the lack of filtering. As you said, a new directive has entered into force, but in the case of Alibaba the screening for national safety and security has not yet been done. I very much hope that this screening can be carried out as quickly as possible, in order to guarantee not only national security, but also the protection of the individual data of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u16	Madam President, Minister, some time ago I asked a question about the help line 1712, given the huge increase in the number of calls to it. Last week we read in the press that the number of calls to the Stop it Now helpline has also more than doubled. The Stop it Now helpline is a helpline to prevent sexual child abuse. Most of the calls come from people with paedophile feelings and from people who are worried about someone in their environment. In this context, the increase in the number of calls to 1712 could also be placed. It is difficult to link criminal offences to those calls, as the calls to those helplines happen anonymously. So the police can't just be called in. Mr. Secretary, do you see a similar trend in increased reports in the police and the public prosecutors? Is all these complaints being dealt with as a matter of priority? I had already put the following four questions to my question on the help line 1712, but they had not been answered in real or in concrete terms enough. In reply to my question about re-contacting, you replied that it will be carried out either by telephone or with a visit. I've replicated that it's not enough just to call these people, but that really needs to be on the spot. It is not possible to check the situation with regard to the victims on the telephone. In your reply you also mentioned 'a pack of criminologists', but it is not clear to me when they will be recruited and when the approach will be intensified. Nor did you tell us when the COLs will be evaluated with us. You did not set a specific date. The increase in the number of notifications by people from the area is a positive trend. How can we continue to respond to this? How can things be intensified?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u17	Madam President, Mrs Bury, first of all, you ask whether this trend can be observed in the number of reports of offences. I have had the crime figures checked by the police and at the moment such a trend is not or is not perceptible. Secondly, did you ask whether the complaints are being dealt with as a matter of priority? I can reassure you that complaints of sexual abuse are taken very seriously and are treated and examined with priority. Third, quid the follow-up of the victims? I refer to the circular COL 20/2020, which sets out the scope and exact modalities of the revisit, which we generalised during the corona crisis. In the event of a positive evaluation, we may consider continuing the re-visit beyond the corona period. The COL also mentions, I quote: "The re-visiting takes the form of an additional interview of the victim to gather all relevant elements to assess the evolution of the situation and to make it clear to the victim that the police and the relief sector will remain available, even during the corona crisis." However, we invite the police officer, together with the reference police officer and the reference magistraat, to thoroughly evaluate the impact of the re-visit and to coordinate it according to the risk involved. As far as your fourth question is concerned, we provide for the additional budget allocated to the Justice Department for the recruitment of 30 parish criminalologists in this year and in the coming years. As regards your fifth question on the evaluation of the COLs, the College of Attorneys General intends to start the evaluation of the COL 3/2006 and COL 4/2006. The exact modalities of the evaluation are still to be discussed, but the reference magistrates will be questioned about any difficulties in applying the COLs. COL 18/2012, COL 15/2020 and COL 20/2020 are all very recent COLs. They will be thoroughly evaluated, but not in the short term. We are already gathering feedback from the field in terms of application, thanks to the close contacts we have with the police areas during the training we have organized on COL 15/2020 and COL 20/2020. In addition, the College of Attorneys General has decided to draw up a circular on sexual violence and a working group has been set up. Finally, as far as your last question is concerned, it will be very important to raise awareness on the one hand and, on the other hand, to provide the necessary channels to enable the reporting by the environment, but also by the perpetrator himself. I am looking with my administration at how this can be promoted more, but I would like to point out that it is a complex problem with a large preventive part and you know that prevention is a matter for the Länder. However, we are going to work with them to resolve this too and to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u18	Minister, your answer was indeed more specific as regards the 30 criminalologists who will be recruited this year. I'll follow it with you. Furthermore, COL 3/2006 and COL 4/2006 will be evaluated in the short term, although you do not give a concrete date. Indeed, the 2018 and 2020 COLs are still very recent, but after a year of operation, they still need to be checked to see if they work properly. You said that the revisit was an additional interrogation of the victim, which gives me a little more peace of mind. However, an additional interview involving a thorough analysis with the victim seems difficult to do by telephone. Could you also be more specific about the letter on sexual violence and the working group? When are they coming? Then I come to the positive trend for neighbors and perpetrators, and the preventive hatch. It's very important to help those people. I am glad that you say you know that it is the Länder that deal with the preventive part, but that it is indeed necessary to look together at how best to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Maegd, Mr De
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u20	Minister, this is a rather alarming question that we learned about in an article published in Le Soir last week and of which I was already informed. Perhaps I am also, along with my friend and former colleague André Frédéric, the vice-president of the Belgian association that fights sectarian drifts. I am thus very interested in the worrying evolution of the sects in Belgium, but also obviously in everything related to the possible fight against the emergence of these sects. That is true, I know that State Security has a lot of work to do and also has a lot of priorities to consider. Nevertheless, it is true that this evolution of the rise of certain sects is quite worrying. It must be noted that follow-up is not sufficiently guaranteed. Minister, have you been aware of this? I know that a lot of parliamentary work has already enquired about this subject. In fact, there has already been a special working group here in Parliament to take this fight against sects and their dangerous drifts to heart and heart. What can you tell us about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u21	Minister, in February the French Ministry of the Interior published a report on trends in sects. A strengthening of the funds has therefore been announced there. I asked you about this in March. You indicated that the trends in Belgium are similar to those of France. However, they still had to be analysed by the Administrative Coordination Cell and the Security of the State in order to obtain a global security picture. You also indicated that for State Security, the succession of sects is not a priority unless there is a link to another priority, and this until the staff increase of 2022 has been achieved. The staff investigating sects at State Security shrunk from about fifteen in 2015 to perhaps no one today. This is demonstrated by the figures in the Committee I study report, which was recently delivered to Parliament. This means, in concrete terms, that no one has been appointed to answer the more than thirty requests for information and twenty signals from the Information and Advice Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organisations (IACSSO), the body set up to observe the phenomenon. Many of those questions and reports have just stayed down. According to the recent monitoring survey carried out by the Committee I, only a small number of the open files were followed, because the administration had to make choices due to staff shortages, which also applies to other tasks of State Security. In addition, in the opinion of the Committee I, the decision taken by the National Security Council in 2015 to cease to follow up sects rather than to cease to follow actively is contrary to Articles 7 and 8.1 of the Act of 30 November 1998 regulating intelligence and security services. That law clearly states that it is not for the National Security Council, nor for the Security of the State, or for a minister to decide that sects should no longer be followed. Hence a number of very specific questions. Do you not think that reports and alarms of this kind indicate that sects and their danger to society should not be better followed, and this earlier than in 2022? If so, how will you achieve that? If not, why not? How does State Security analyse trends when she doesn't have any personnel to investigate cults? Why didn't a more limited staffing effort be decided earlier, perhaps not fifteen, but five people to be able to analyse and follow up those reports from the IACSSO? Are you prepared to review the decision of the 2015 National Security Council to stop actively following up sects by reassigned them to the National Security Council, taking into account the clear definition of the law, the evolution of recent months and the alarming reports that are emerging? If so, when will that happen and what elements will you revise? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions which give me the opportunity to nuance the media coverage of this subject early this week. The CIAOSN Centre (IACSSO in Dutch) receives requests for information about spiritual or religious organizations from the public and authorities. These demands do not mean that they are harmful sectarian organizations. It just means that a citizen wants to be informed about an organisation. The centre does not have information on the number of harmful sectarian organizations. As you know, in 2015, the Security of the State, mainly motivated by the increased problem of foreign terrorist fighters, was forced to set out its priorities. The focus was mainly on counter-terrorism and counter-intelligence. Harmful sectarian and criminal organisations would only be actively investigated if there were links with the key priorities of the services of espionage, interferion, terrorism and Extremism. In all other cases there are also other departments, respectively the IACSSO and the federal police. This necessary prioritisation was supported at the political level by a decision of the National Security Council. Also within Counterterrorism and Counterintelligence, priorities were set in 2015 and then again in 2019 and, for example, in the field of counterintelligence, it was set out to which countries and to which countries would not be given priority. These choices were submitted to the National Security Council on the basis of the expertise of employees and the threat information available to our services on these issues. This revision of prioritization meant that there was no longer any active input on the issue of harmful sectarian organisations and organised crime. Within the analytical service an analyst was identified who looks at incoming questions and/or files relating to harmful sectarian organisations and provides answers where possible, based on the information present in the State Security database. All incoming questions were thus processed in this way and where a useful contribution could be made, answers were formulated on the basis of the information provided by the State Security Database. However, this information was no longer updated by its own operational operation. To use more analysis on this matter without an active collection would therefore be little or not cost-effective. The assessment that incoming information on harmful sectarian organisations was no longer processed is therefore incorrect. However, the service does indicate that no formal reply has been made in the absence of information. In the meantime, the Board of Analysis at the State Security took the necessary arrangements to follow a formal answer in future to any request for information, even if this is simply a "nothing to report." Moreover, the analyst who was designated to look at these questions and, where possible, to provide an answer, does not have this as the main task. This analyst is part of the team that deals with ideological extremism. Thus, the time that this person must spend on harmful sectarian organizations, he cannot spend on the succession of ideological extremism and just because of its high topicality, is an important priority for the Security of the State. I would remind you that the security of the State has always made it clear that harmful sectarian organisations would be monitored permanently if they could be linked to a priority threat. The succession of harmful sectarian organisations has always been limited to sectarian organisations that threaten the internal or external security of the State or the scientific or economic potential. This has happened in practice. In an interview with a Flemish weekly, the director of the IACSSO talks about conspiracy theories, disinformation and QAnon, for example. These phenomena are of all times but since the outbreak of the corona pandemic and the related restrictive measures they have only increased. Well, from the start of the corona crisis, the Security of the State is actively following this up, as some publications also show, because the link could be made with extremist individuals or organizations or with hybrid activities of hostile state actors. This is also covered by the regular operation of the State's security. Where the threat is confined to the mental or physical health of the individual or a small group of individuals, it does not belong, however painful some stories may be, to the powers of an intelligence service. I would like to emphasize that State Security is prepared to participate in a comprehensive analysis of the current threat from harmful sectarian organizations. I expect the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations to take the initiative in this regard. On the basis of this global analysis, i.e. based on objective data, we will then be able to examine whether the service should step up monitoring of harmful sectarian organizations. In any event, the State Security will be supported in its growth plan for the coming years. It therefore seems to me quite logical that at that time these priorities can also be re-evaluated and, if necessary, adapted to the changing reality. But we want to do so on the basis of objective and well-founded data. We free up budgets to substantially strengthen the security of the state. If necessary, more capacity may be released for the follow-up of harmful sectarian organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u23	Mr Minister, it is clear that if we are once again to optimize the priorities to be pursued by State Security, we need to know what we are basing ourselves on. Having this statistical data is not an obvious thing, I would also like to remind you. This requires a lot of work on the part of the actors who are doing exceptional work on the ground and who, in my view, are also not receiving the best aid in terms of their efforts. However, I am pleased that you are fully prepared, once the figures are known, to examine how to optimize the State Security services in relation to this important priority, which is likely to become even more important in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u24	Minister, we are aware of the arguments always expressed by the State's security in this respect. I understand that other priorities are set when there are attacks and more capacity is released in the event of a growing threat, but we have always warned against the fact that there are still other threats. In certain periods they may be less large, but as soon as they are less watched, they may increase again. That has clearly been the case in the case of the sects. You say in your reply that other services are competent. For example, you refer to the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful sectarian organisations (IACSSO). However, the IACSO has no jurisdiction in this matter. It is a documentation centre, the most important documentation centre in Europe, which has a mass of public resources. However, staff cannot carry out police or intelligence investigations. They must be able to use their information to contact someone who can then get on with it. You say there's another analyst who looks at the incoming questions and answers them. Then I wonder what the security of the state can add to it if it stops actively investigating itself. What information can she add if she hasn't been active on these themes for years? A file is being forwarded, and perhaps a standard answer will follow, but I fear we are missing the boat here. There is an enormous loss of expertise. Information that can be useful today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow is not collected. Something may have happened, but it wasn't communicated. You are now saying that this will happen in the future. That seems to me to be a first step. You also tell me that one analyst had other assignments. Minister, I am falling off my chair. The capacity of the State's Security is what it is, but in the past 15 employees worked on it, now barely one, and then only for part of his or her mission. That's a huge risk. The National Security Council has decided to stop actively tracking the phenomenon and to stop actively following it, but it has never been said that it should not be followed at all. I believe that this is too broad an interpretation of the decision of the National Security Council. We absolutely need to re-enter the debate, with the data that is now available. The National Security Council must re-examine it and decide which initiatives should or should not be taken. One thing is certain: if something happens next week, next month or next year in this country involving a cult, with serious injuries or deaths, then responsibility will be crushing. We will then be shooting at everyone, at Parliament, the Ministers, the National Security Council, the Committee I, the Security of the State and the ADIV. It will be said that all of them have not done their job. The Committee I report is clear and we must act. We must not take the risk of facing a serious incident within a few years that we did not see coming because the intelligence services did not pay sufficient attention to it. I call on you to take this to heart, and you have announced that you will do so. This debate is certainly necessary. The security of the State will also come to the Committee I's advisory committee with this dossier, so that we can also discuss it with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55, by Mr Goffin 55017312C by Mrs Gabriels were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u26	Minister, for almost five years now, Life4Brussels has been accompanying hundreds of victims. Two volunteers are in contact with the victims, visit them, assist them in the various tasks they have to perform, and morally support them. She is a police officer with training in victimology and psychotraumatology, as well as a psychologist. This aid goes further and is much more comprehensive because Life4Brussels also provides victims with free legal permanences. As a result, the association was able to inform hundreds of victims of their rights and assist them in the various steps they had to take. More than 300 cases were brought by Life4Brussels and his lawyers to the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence. The association is therefore doing a tremendous and essential job for the hundreds of victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016. Life4Brussels is waiting for many answers and help from you. It seems important to us that you fully cooperate in assisting the victims. Minister, with regard to the Life4Brussels association's application for accreditation, the ASBL has been waiting for a response to this request since 28 October 2020. Could you give us a detailed picture of the status of this request? Life4Brussels had a meeting with some members of your firm on January 5, 2021. With regard to the requests made by the association at that meeting, the representatives of the Justice FPS stated that they would come back with clear answers a month later. To date, Life4Brussels has received no return. As the demands of the victims were pressing, it would be time to provide satisfactory answers. In addition, a letter was sent on 17 March 2021 in which Life4Brussels sought assistance from the SPF Justice in order to be able to perpetuate aid and support to victims of terrorism for the past five years. They have also never had an answer to this letter. The perceived support of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation will not allow the association to function beyond the summer holidays. However, it is imperative that Life4Brussels continue to be able to inform and assist the victims of terrorism. Could you give us a detailed picture of the status of this request? Why are you so late?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u27	Mr Boukili, this case was dealt with by the cabinet and will be transmitted shortly to the King. Approval is in the final administrative phase and will therefore be finalized shortly. Let me tell you, with all due respect, Mr Boukili, that you have visibly heard only one version of the story. Not all the messages sent by my firm have been answered. But in the end, it doesn't matter. It's good that you're defending the victims. In the meantime, my firm sent a letter to Life For Brussels asking him to find a time to organize a meeting in order to clarify and clarify all these points. It should be noted, however, that some points have already received a reply to Parliament because they concern the same requests as those raised by some Members at the hearing. In any case, my office has already reached out to get around the table about it. The SFP Justice simply cannot decide to grant a subsidy. This is done within the budget that is established at a specific time each year. This question has also arisen in the context of the V-Europe project, which will actually receive a subsidy. It should be made clear that this coaching is intended for all victims of terrorist attacks, regardless of the association of which they are members. It is therefore important to obtain good cooperation between the various victim associations so that the coaching project can be deployed on a large scale. The budget has been earmarked for this purpose. Moreover, a meeting is planned this Friday with V-Europe and Life For Brussels to reach agreement on this point so that all victims can be assisted in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u28	Mr Minister, as we have learned from the press, V-Europe would have received EUR 300 000 from you as subsidies. V-Europe has been approved for several years. However, there are two associations of victims in Belgium and, if this proves to be correct, it seems that we are faced with a situation of manifest discrimination. You say that the budget is for all the victims, but in fact it has been allocated to V-Europe. It is now up to Life4Brussels to find an agreement with V-Europe that owns the 300,000 euros. Minister, how do you justify a delay for the ASBL Life4Brussels file and at the same time the EUR 300 000 for V-Europe? We would like to have some reassuring answers on this. It is the fate of more than 300 victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 that depends on it. Life4Brussels represents hundreds of victims. If I were you, I'd speed up the procedures quickly. This summer, the association will no longer be able to function. I wouldn't like to have that on my conscience, minister. I think everything is to be put in place so that Life4Brussels can continue beyond the summer and that this question of subsidies is really clear. How much is allocated to what association? It must not be so blurry. I do not understand how V-Europe receives 300 000 euros and that Life4Brussels must find common ground with V-Europe in order to be able to be financed. It's an act of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u29	Minister, it's been two years since Julie Van Espen was murdered. Two years after the facts, there is still, to everyone's regret, no mention of the long-awaited process. There are several reasons for that. It always takes a little longer before a trial can start before the court of assists. The corona crisis hasn't really helped either, because it has messed up the court's agenda. Moreover, the expert study has also taken some time. The judge appointed a college of three experts, and unfortunately one of the experts was struck by serious medical problems, which left the report unfinished, while the investigation of the facts itself had long been completed. Julie Van Espen's family hopes that the process will start this year, but there is a fear that this will not work. Has the expert study been fully completed? If not, when do you expect that? How will you avoid that, if an expert is experiencing medical problems or there is another form of force majeure, which leads to long delays? Will the process start in 2021? What measures or legislative changes do you intend to take to speed up criminal proceedings and what is your timing if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u30	Mrs. De Wit, it was indeed two years ago yesterday that Julie Van Espen disappeared. Two days later, on 6 May 2019, her body was found in the Albert Canal. The same day a suspect was arrested, who later also confessed to the facts. The investigation is currently in the final phase. There was indeed a problem with one of the experts, but for privacy reasons I cannot elaborate on that. Fortunately, the expert is now working again and he is working on the assignment. Ordering another expert with the assignment was perhaps an option, but no guarantee that the investigation would have been completed more quickly. It is the intention of the Antwerp Justice Department to bring the matter before the council chamber before the summer. The District Court of Antwerp cannot confirm whether the case will be dealt with before the Court of Assistes in 2021. You rightly referred to the corona crisis, which upset the calendar. Of course, we want the trial to take place as soon as possible, primarily for the relatives, the family and friends of Julie Van Espen. That's important. It is equally important that we have started working on the demands and demands of the family to deal with sexual violence properly. You have also heard, among other things, that before the Easter recess in the Council of Ministers, we adopted an important reform of sexual criminal law at first reading. Finally, Mr De Wit, we are considering what measures we can take to facilitate criminal proceedings. But the new draft of the Code of Criminal Procedure is not evident to many parties, including yours. If necessary, we are aiming for a two-stage reform, first we are doing what can be arranged quickly and then we are looking at the issues that clash with a little more resistance. In any case, the preparation is in full swing. My cabinet is working hard to complete the reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u31	Minister, we will certainly follow it up. I hope that the process will indeed take place this year. That's important, too. I would like to hear you say that you are in the process of adjusting the procedure and the legislative work on it. I realise that reform of criminal proceedings is not that simple, indeed not for my party either, because this obviously changes a whole Bible and perhaps a lot is going on. We have had a lot of legislation in recent years. But some aspects of criminal proceedings can be speeded up, quick wins are achieved and fundamental reform may not even be necessary. Moreover, a first quick win came with the adoption of the bill which has made it a criterion for the immediate detention of a person. If that had previously been the case, the person concerned would probably not have been at large in the file. We have already been able to correct that deficiency in the law, which is a quick win. For example, there are quick wins, on which there is even agreement on the ground. It is therefore important to work first of all, rather than a greater fundamental reform. It may be necessary in certain areas, but sometimes small quick wins are also very useful and useful. I had hoped that some would have been possible. In any case, I look forward to the drafts with which you will come to Parliament. We are working on our own, we are working on solutions. So you can expect us to take any initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u32	Madam President, Minister, on 5 January last, the Chamber of the Council of the French-speaking Court of First Instance of Brussels delivered a judgment ending by innocent two activists for the right to abortion prosecuted for trying to provide abortion drugs to women in Chile in 2016, a country that has only allowed abortion since 2017, but only under very strict conditions. Their goal: to help some of the 60,000 to 200,000 Chilean women who put themselves in danger each year to abort in hiding. The prosecution had requested no fewer than five charges against them: conspiracy of criminals, unauthorized importation of abortive medicinal products, purchase or importation of non-compliant abortive medicinal products, placing on the market of medicines without authorisation and illegal exercise of pharmaceutical art. He was followed by a home search, and the threat of a five-year prison sentence and a fine of 100,000 euros. At the time, article 383 of our Penal Code further penalized the dissemination of information on abortion. Minister, can you tell me whether the injunction to prosecute these facts was given by your predecessor who was in office when the case was brought before the prosecution? This case reveals the difficulties faced by women who wish to abort outside legal conditions and who, because of the criminal sanctions provided for in these circumstances, will do so in countries where abortion is still permitted or, in Belgium, but in a clandestine manner. So what about the evaluation of the law on abortion by a multidisciplinary scientific committee provided for in your government agreement? Your PS colleagues had already promised last November that the reflection on the reform of the law to the IVG would be initiated at the beginning of the year after the budget work. In January, they promised to set it up quickly. Today is May. Four months have passed since then and we still have no news. What will be the composition of this committee? When will it begin its work? When can we wait for the results of the evaluation of the legislation to be carried out by the committee in question? Is there an agreement within the government on how to proceed? Otherwise, what is blocking the establishment of the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to your first question, the Public Prosecutor's Office has given me the following information. The judicial investigation you are referring to did not follow an injunction from my predecessor, but found its origin in a customs control. In the course of 2016, the customs authorities intercepted packages containing abort medicinal products from a third country to the European Union. A judicial investigation was opened against, inter alia, the Act of 25 March 1964 on medicines, the illegal importation of medicines and the placing on the market of medicines without authorisation. The Chamber of Counsel held that violations of this Act had to be contraventioned because of mitigating circumstances specific to the particular case. In so doing, it found that the public action had been prescribed after the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the facts. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office did not appeal this order. With regard to your second question, the passage in the government agreement to which you refer mentions that a multidisciplinary and independent scientific committee will be formed first. You are aware that the initiative is left to Parliament, which will decide on the composition of the committee and its specific tasks. I cannot say more because this is Parliament's responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I must say surprises me enough. First of all, on my first question, I wanted to question you about this case because these women were criminalized for trying to help women by providing them with abortive drug kits and tablets. However, it was a misoprostol drug that significantly reduced the risks associated with clandestine abortions. It was therefore not a drug trafficking that would have put women at risk. On the contrary, it was intended to help them. This case shows that when the abortion remains totally or partially penalized, women, still at present, can be sentenced to prison while they should be protected by the legislative arsenal. In my view, helping women avoid death must be recognized as humanitarian action, solidarity action and not as a criminal act. With regard to the other part of my question, I understand that the setting up of this scientific committee falls within the competence of Parliament, except that the government agreement is very clear. Of course, Parliament will have to decide whether or not to decriminalise abortion, but this can only be done when there is a consensus to move forward on this issue – which is provided for in the government agreement. So there was an agreement between Vivaldi's partners as part of the government's formation. It is well known how this issue has crystallized the formation as such of this government. I will therefore turn to the Speaker of the House to see if it is indeed within the jurisdiction of the House, but I fear that there will be a refusal. We'll see what his answer is. Beyond that, it is important to be able to say that we must support women who, at some point, must practice civil disobedience in the face of laws that are obsolete and restrictive. However, the current law on abortion in Belgium is one of these restrictive obsolete laws that put certain women at risk in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u35	Mr Minister, on 1 April last you expressed in plenary session your willingness to decriminalize sex work and expressed the idea of finally granting a specific legal status to those who practice sex work. I am very pleased that you intend to defend a pragmatic position in the Council of Ministers. In order to do so, you have mentioned in particular the balance that must be struck between free choice and the protection of persons against abuse, exploitation, especially with regard to trafficking in human beings, except that the difference between voluntary and forced prostitution is often very tenuous. It is also very often more a matter of necessity than of choice. Therefore, Minister, do you believe that recognizing a status and decriminalizing sex workers' practices will really make it easier to target human trafficking situations in the prostitution sector? In what way? How can the police unit dealing with trafficking in human beings handle this type of case? If I fully agree with you on the decriminalization of sex work, it seems to me fundamental, in the event that it would give real status to those who exercise sex work, to strengthen the protection of these people to ensure that their choice is totally free and informed. How do you envisage strengthening the protection of vulnerable persons who could be trained in sex work if it is more regulated by law? Do you envisage, for example, advocating for the granting of subsidies to associations accompanying such workers who wish to leave prostitution, but also to associations which provide support to persons who are victims of trafficking in human beings? Finally, the government agreement stated that in the area of prostitution, work would be carried out in consultation with the actors on the ground. How did you structure this thinking? With which actors in the field have you worked together? Given the complexity of the subject and the diversity of the situations of the persons concerned, are you considering developing your policy in close cooperation with them? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by answering Mrs Rohonyi's questions. With regard to your first question, the police specialized in combating trafficking in human beings, whether local or federal, apply the prosecution policy as defined in COL 01 of 2015 of the College of Attorneys General. In this circular, a non-exhaustive list of indicators to detect cases of trafficking in human beings, including sexual exploitation, is clearly identified and provides guidance for police action on the ground. The distribution of missions between local and federal levels is defined in Circular COL 02 of 2002 and, depending on the specificities of each judicial district, the tasks relating to the monitoring of prostitution and trafficking in human beings are defined by the reference magistrates. In order to detect vulnerable persons who are victims of forced prostitution or trafficking in human beings, it is essential that the police have a good knowledge of the overall environment of prostitution. They must carry out preventive actions, control actions and repressive actions, in particular through judicial investigations carried out under the auspices of the reference magistrates. One of the critical factors for success in detecting cases of forced prostitution is the creation of a trust link between the police, sex workers and the community-oriented community. The crisis of the covid revealed an adaptation of the environment of prostitution, which, as a result of health measures, has become increasingly difficult to locate and control. Indeed, in the face of these new constraints, sex workers have reoriented their activities across the digital world so that they can stay in touch with their customers and perform their sexual services in private homes, airbnbs, gites, campsites, basements. In these circumstances, the link between all stakeholders and the trust that accompanies it is in the process of being broken. When we end up coming out of this crisis, every effort should be made to re-create the conditions for interaction between the various actors involved. To this end, the granting of a genuine status to sex workers and the decriminalization of their activities are two major factors that will allow us both to guarantee more security for those working in this interlope environment, to restore visibility to this environment, and by corollary, to make it easier to understand again, to re-establish the link of trust between specialized police services, the community and sex workers, and to increase the possibilities of being able to detect cases of exploitation of vulnerable persons. In addition to this, one of the major challenges of the future for police services will be their ability to ensure optimal monitoring of this phenomenon in the digital world. Online investigations are a major challenge for police services with regard to trafficking in human beings. With regard to your second question, my intention is to provide a safety net to punish the abuse of another person's prostitution, in cases where the conditions of trafficking in human beings are not met. In addition, the amendment of the law will pave the way for a strengthening of the social status of prostitutes, so that they can exercise their profession without anyone, like a driver, taking an abnormal advantage of their activities. To derive an abnormal advantage from another person's prostitution is not the same as to actually exploit a prostitute. The three shelters for victims of human trafficking are currently being funded by the federal and federated entities. With regard to your third question, the first step is to submit to Parliament, as soon as possible, the section on sexual criminal law which includes the decriminalization of sex workers. We have sought the views of various expert organisations, including Myria, Payoke and UTSOPI. UTSOPI represents all sex workers and has also been actively involved in drafting texts on decriminalization. The decriminalization of sex workers will then lead to the development of a social status for sex workers. However, the examination of all possibilities for the creation of rights for sex workers, both at the level of social law and at the level of labour law, does not fall within my exclusive competence. Of course, I would like to cooperate fully and I will participate in all the necessary consultation structures, paying particular attention to the participation of representatives of sex workers and organisations working against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. I would like to thank Mr Segers for his questions, which, as usual, have been put with a great deal of knowledge. With his questions, he anticipates a number of things. That is good of course, but the first step is the decriminalisation of sex work. After that, other steps can and will follow, in consultation with the competent authorities. You know the principles of dealing with trafficking in human beings. Criminal policy in the fight against trafficking in human beings is already largely governed by laws and directives. Each judicial district has specialised magistrates for both sexual and economic exploitation. It is therefore necessary to continue and strengthen checks on the places where prostitution is carried out as soon as a clear statute for prostitutes has been established. These checks must be carried out by both the police and the social inspection service. We will also work in different areas as exploitation is becoming more and more hidden. For example, tracking money laundering related to trafficking in human beings can help to give the money back to the victims. Indicators of this type of fraudulent financial transactions have been provided to banks. Of course, it is intended to ensure that all accompanying measures are already in force at the time of entry into force of the amended penal code. As far as your fourth question is concerned, that can indeed be considered. The decriminalisation of certain behaviours will in any case facilitate contacts between the authorities and the administrators of these sites. Some of them are willing to work together to prevent their platforms from being used as a basis for criminal purposes. As far as your fifth question is concerned, this will be part of an item on the agenda at the next meeting of the Human Trafficking and Trafficking Agency where all the parties concerned can discuss a way of tackling it together. If there is a legal framework, the facilitators will have to operate within a legal framework, if not, they will commit a criminal offence and will be able to act. As far as your sixth question is concerned, the next action plan to combat trafficking in human beings, which is currently being finalised, will examine what exists abroad in this area, for example in the Netherlands and Luxembourg, without a generalised punishment of customers. By this you do not hear me claim that we should simply take over the Dutch or Luxembourg model, but the awareness of customers is an important element. Indeed, customers have already reported situations related to trafficking in human beings. There will also be work on raising public awareness of trafficking in human beings. As far as your seventh question is concerned, I hope that decriminalisation will give us a better view of the criminal networks behind exploitation and trafficking in human beings. Police and Justice must be able to concentrate their resources on this. In red light zones in large cities, sex workers are controlled by the police to have an insight into who works where and to check compliance with police regulations. The same applies to checking private places. Such controls do not bring much to the dike. In decriminalising sex work, the police no longer have to carry out such checks. Today we see that traffickers have gone online to offer the services of victims, to control their victims and to manage the flow of money. The fight against this must be waged. It can also focus on ads to identify exploitation sites, such as houses and apartments. Decriminalising sex workers and reviewing the article of law relating to the ban on sex advertisements will enable us to better screen for exploitation situations together with certain providers and other internet forums. As far as your eighth question is concerned, the problem with undocumented sex workers is not so much that they are vulnerable because of the lack of a statute for sex workers, but because of their illegal residence status. So we need to focus on that statute. We will certainly discuss these concerns with the competent Secretary of State and look together at how this group of people can be better protected or how we can prevent them from ending up here illegally. Here too, this means that the focus should be on criminal networks behind trade and smuggling. As far as your ninth question is concerned, measures to combat trafficking in human beings will be strengthened, both in terms of prevention, criminal policy and victim protection. The aim is to involve the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell Office in future efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, pointing out that not all prostitution is of course trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u37	Mr Minister, thank you for your very detailed response and for the work that is underway today to detect cases of trafficking in human beings, but also to improve the social situation of prostitutes and to ensure that the relationship of trust between the people concerned and the police services is strengthened. There is a need to further strengthen the presence of neighbourhood workers who are familiar with these people and to strengthen their training. I am thinking of police officers, prevention officers, but also street workers or CPAS personnel. For this reason, I will indeed appeal to Minister Lalieux. In addition to this debate to regulate prostitution, it is important to suppress pimping, all those who exploit situations of great vulnerability. Today, it is observed that procuring is only criminalized when it is accompanied by other criminal activities or when it causes nuisances. This is unacceptable. This is considered an offence in our Criminal Code. It must therefore be repressed as such. I also hear the work being done to support associations. Is this work also about supporting the establishment of exit routes from prostitution to help young women who are now engaged in prostitution, for example, to finance their studies? In France, in 2014, a law was adopted providing a framework for improving the fate of these people when they request it. This is an example that Belgium must be able to draw on. You also talk about the application of circulars. These circulars may need to be evaluated for improvement. I didn't hear you about that. As far as clients are concerned, a great deal of work needs to be done in terms of their awareness. Simply penalizing clients will not improve the social situation of prostitutes. The same applies to illegal residents. It is essential to have a consultation - and I thank you - with your colleague at the Asylum and Migration. Today, these people are afraid to file a complaint when they are trafficked. It's really time for fear to change sides. I am very pleased that you have this will to put an end to this hypocritical legislation which today does not take into account the unworthy working conditions that these prostitutes are facing and which put them at risk. Minister, I look forward to this proposal to reform sexual criminal law. I would still like to ask you when we can hope to see him on the table in Parliament. We hear a lot of announcements in the media and in committee, but for the rest, we really don't know when this work could be started in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. My question was initially an informative question in order to know the state of play. I think it is important to start the debate on the accompanying measures now. You've given me a lot of thought. It is important to be ready when the draft comes into force so that we do not start this debate only at the time of its entry into force, which could be relatively quick. Decriminalisation will bring about a whole dynamic, of which I cannot properly assess all the consequences. I don't think anyone can really do that. I see you're doing a lot of work on this. All praise for that. The sex workers deserve clarity about the rules and also about their social protection, as you said. Moreover, the more clarity, the better we can fight the excesses. Of course sex work must be an ordinary economic activity and forced prostitution and trafficking only make up a piece of the whole palette. Once decriminalisation is done, we must also be able to take stricter action against excesses, against forced prostitution, against economic exploitation and trafficking in human beings. If we manage to provide that clarity for the regular economic activities of sex workers, we will also be able to act more effectively against those excesses. I wish you every success and I will certainly return to you with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislation on this subject takes into account two very different interests: on the one hand, the general interest characterized by information to the authorities concerned by the criminal procedure in relation to criminal records; and, on the other hand, the particular interest of the convicted person characterised by an extract from the criminal record enabling him to be reintegrated, in particular, in the search for a job. For example, currently, our criminal record system provides a different content from the extract for the same person depending on whether the criminal record extract is intended for a judicial or police authority or intended for the citizen in the search for a job. The shade must be well understood. The day before yesterday, a discussion took place in Parliament on the subject of the pandemic law. It should first be recalled that the principle of producing an extract of a criminal record limited to the cases required by law (in which the holder of a profession must have a blank criminal record or be exempt from certain convictions) prohibits any employer from applying for an extract of a criminal record unless permitted by law. This principle was reiterated by the Data Protection Authority. This is particularly the case with regard to the recruitment of guard officers, police officers and taxi drivers for whom the law lays down conditions relating to the judicial past of the person concerned. These professions are regulated by the sector concerned and not by the Central Judicial Case of my department. The Central Judicial Case Regulations provide for three types of criminal record extract. Model 593 is intended in particular for the judicial, police and intelligence authorities and contains all convictions of the citizen except those erased by the rule of erasure based on a three-year run-off after the sentence has been pronounced. At present, only convictions for a police sentence are deleted after three years; if the Pandemic Law is approved, convictions for a coronary offence will also be abolished. The second type of criminal record extract is model 594. This model is intended for administrations that need to be aware of the judicial history of their administration. This type of extract contains less information than model 593. It does not include, for example, sentences that have been pardoned, suspensions of sentencing, transactions, sentences to work, convictions to electronic surveillance or convictions to a stand-alone probation. These extracts also do not include, after three years, sentences of up to six months' imprisonment, convictions by simple conviction, fines of up to EUR 500 and all fines imposed in respect of road traffic, regardless of the amount, unless these convictions contain deadlines or prohibitions whose effects exceed a period of three years, or the knowledge of which is indispensable for the application of a statutory provision. The third model, model 595-596, is intended for citizens. It is important to know here that, in addition to the fact that this extract contains even less information than the first two types of extract, such as internments and measures for the protection of minors decided by the juvenile courts, this type of extract is available in as many different types of extract as there are regulated professions in our legislation. Each type of extract relating to each type of professional activity shall contain only the information referred to in those professional regulations. The question arises as to whether the current legislation, as described, meets the objective of relevance of the information provided to the purpose of the extract, while at the same time achieving the objective of not unnecessarily penalising the sentenced person and thus promoting his or her social reintegration. The questions are therefore as follows: Does the legislation need to be revised or modernised? Is the legislation being implemented in practice with sufficient effectiveness or are there any problems in this regard? I am examining these issues in collaboration with my services. As far as your first two questions are concerned, I agree with the added value of such projects. But I do not think that the policy of recruiting people falls within my competence. A dialogue on this point with the competent authorities must, of course, be possible. To answer your third and fourth questions, know that these are suggestions that we can include in the evaluation of this issue. But I don't want and can't anticipate this. As for your fifth question, I will also include it in my assessment. We can write a letter to the King's prosecutor asking him to benefit from the rehabilitation. Perhaps too few citizens are aware of this possibility. The central criminal record has recently published information to this effect on the criminal record extracts web page. In any case, the central criminal record will soon be working with the judiciary to see how the rehabilitation procedure can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. We agree on the need to strike a balance between the protection of society and the reintegration of a person into the same society. Today, there are three models of criminal record, but the question is whether these models allow us to avoid unnecessary stigmatization of some people. It is good news to hear that work is under way to assess the current law. I have heard that these models do not allow some people seeking employment to avoid discrimination or stigmatization. Some associations are now proposing solutions to encourage the reintegration of these people and not to unnecessarily put sticks in their wheels. I invite you to take these leads into account in your assessment of this legislation. Can you specify the timing of this evaluation work and with which actors it will take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u41	I can't answer you yet, but I'll keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u42	Madam President, Mr Segers, at the end of December my policy cell instructed the Director-General of the Judicial Organisation to launch a public contract. Indeed, there appears to be no framework contract for these whisper sets and a call for tenders should be launched. That's what's going on. Meanwhile, whisper sets can already be rented in large processes. I refer, among other things, to the best practices in Antwerp, where standard for every assist case with interpreters a whisper set is rented. At the beginning of this year there was an assist case with three Romanian accused, where, thanks to the presence of a whisper set, an interpreter could interpret smoothly and covidsafe, to the satisfaction of all actors. Other courts or courts can also rent a whisper set in cases with multiple suspects who need assistance from an interpreter. You can always contact the Central Court Office if you have any questions. I shall then come to your second question. Since it is not possible to provide a whisper set for each case, we received a proposal from one of the professional associations of the translators/interpreters to be able to interpret corona-safely. Since the current sanitary situation requires immediate action and it would be irresponsible to wait any longer, it was decided to appeal to the corona situation as a state of emergency which justifies the taking of urgent measures, provided that they are subsequently confirmed as soon as possible along the normal regulatory path. In the interest of budgetary caution, this measure means that the interpreter may, each time he or she has performed a performance, add a supplement of 15% of his or her remuneration to the statement of costs. With that the whisper set will not be earned back in a few weeks, but in a slightly longer term. Fifteen percent is indeed modest. However, it is intended to provide for a new scheme with a higher remuneration in the new Royal Decree on tariff. As for your last question. There will indeed be a necessary step. We do not need to overwhelm anyone with information, but we need to send a clear, concise annex containing that directive. Finally, I would like to follow your comment on communication to translators and interpreters. We have the possibility to draw on the National Register for Official Translators and Interpreters. I've instructed the administration to communicate more proactively through this route.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic463x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your commitment.
