ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, at the end of June, many Belgian citizens who wanted to take a few days off after the morose period we had with the pandemic had an unfortunate surprise at the time of flying. Indeed, while many states allowed antigenic tests, citizens were banned from boarding because the result of their laboratory test did not indicate "negative" but values in terms of Covid-19 antigens. This has resulted in a significant financial loss for these citizens: airline tickets, car reservations, hotel nights, etc. Fortunately, thanks to the action of the federal government, the problem has been solved since the results of the antigenic tests are now on the Covid Safe application. Nevertheless, many citizens have been financially injured and are rightly asking themselves how to obtain reimbursement. Madam Secretary of State, what are the remedies for citizens who have been harmed by this system? Should they turn to the airlines, which have not properly applied the legislation, to the laboratories, which have not indicated the term "negative", or to the government, which has not made things clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u2	My colleague, the Economic Inspectorate, through its contact point, has not received any communication on this problem. It is difficult for me to answer this question in general, because each situation has to be examined in concrete terms. Depending on the circumstances, the traveller could bring an action against the tour operator, the airline or the laboratory. If the airline tickets are part of a package trip, the traveller is protected by the Travel Act. Article 33 provides that the organiser is responsible for the performance of the travel services, whether performed by him or not. If the denied boarding is due to an error by the airline, the traveller may apply to the tour operator for compensation for the damage suffered. Furthermore, article 50 of the Travel Act provides that if the airline tickets are part of a package trip but the refusal to board is attributable to a laboratory error, the traveller is not entitled to compensation from the tour operator. The common law is then applicable, and the traveller will be able to turn against the laboratory. Similarly, if airline tickets are not part of a package trip, the common law applies, and the traveller may apply to the airline or laboratory, depending on the responsible party. In any event, the question of the responsibility of the various actors in this problem – namely the travel organiser, the airline, the laboratory or the traveller himself – can only be decided by the courts and tribunals, depending on the circumstances of each case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You confirm that many of our citizens have been injured and that they could claim their losses either from the laboratory or from the airline. I regret that a simpler and faster system has not been put in place, because our citizens will be obliged to turn against either the laboratory or the airline. I imagine that the laboratory will clear its customs on the basis that the government has ordered it to do so, and so will the airline, which will say that the laboratory is responsible. The citizen may find himself again faced with an administrative maze that will not help them. A simpler solution would have been preferable. In any event, I will not fail in my duty as a Member of Parliament by informing our fellow citizens who have suffered this sometimes significant financial loss.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, in order to protect mandatory protection against natural disasters, all or part of a landslide or soil degradation must be due to a natural phenomenon. A landslide or soil degradation is defined in the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance as a movement of an important mass of the soil layer that destroys or damages goods which are wholly or partly due to a natural phenomenon other than a flood or an earthquake. It will therefore have to be proved that the cause is due to a natural phenomenon. This can only be examined on a case-by-case basis. The final assessment of this is a matter for the sovereign jurisdiction of our courts and courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I therefore understand that it is not excluded in advance, but that it will be up to the judge to judge. We note this and will follow up on how this will evolve in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in nine months, the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy has already registered more complaints than in 2020 against the telephone stalling: 7,144 this year compared to 6,261 last year. This amounts to 26 complaints per day addressed to the FPS Economy. The companies at the base of these stalls do not comply with the rules of the list "Don't call anymore" to which 1.5 million Belgians are registered, which should normally protect them from these abusive calls. In your policy note, you yourself indicated that this list was no longer sufficient to avoid being disturbed by this type of unwanted solicitation. You are therefore committed to making this list work effectively in the future. Madam Secretary of State, are you going to strengthen this list so that registrants can no longer receive unwanted advertising calls? Are you considering imposing fines on companies that would not take this list into account in their marketing? How will you respond to more than 7,000 complaints this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u7	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, the "Do not call me" list offers telephone subscribers the opportunity to sign up to stop receiving direct marketing phone calls. Companies wishing to make direct marketing telephone calls are required to consult this list in advance in order not to call the numbers on this list. The operating procedures of the Do not call me ASBL will be adapted and the establishment of the list will be taken over by the telecom operators. The arrangements for companies to access this list will be adapted in order to facilitate its consultation and compliance with this obligation. The main remaining problems are identity theft, spoofing and regular telephone marketing from outside the European Union. In the case of identity usurpation, the telephone number used to make the call (often outside the European Union) is replaced by a Belgian number and is thus untraceable. It is virtually impossible to prevent telephone marketing from countries outside the European Union because of the lack of agreement with each country individually. In parallel to our project for the "Don't call me anymore" list, I will analyze the personalized advertising companies want to post. There is currently a voluntary initiative in the sector called the "Robinson List". This list is managed by the Belgian Association of Marketing and includes contact details for those who do not wish to receive personalized advertising messages in their mailbox. I will analyse the best way to modernize this solution. From 2017 to 2019, the number of complaints concerning unsolicited calls followed the increase in the total number of complaints: 21% of the reports received were for unsolicited calls in those three years. In 2020, this ratio declined. Complaints about unsolicited calls represent only 11% of the total number of alerts received via the point of contact. In the event of a serious offence, the Economic Inspectorate shall initiate an investigation against the perpetrator(s) of the reported practices. One of the channels for detecting such an infringement is the analysis of reports received via the FPS Economy contact point. This is the case for unsolicited calls. Where appropriate, the Economic Inspectorate shall issue a warning or report against the offender(s) with a proposal for a transaction or direct shipment to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In 2020, five minutes were drawn up against companies that did not comply with the list "Don't call me anymore!" Unsolicited calls referred to in articles 110 to 115 of Book XV of the Code of Economic Law are punishable by a level 2 penalty (criminal fine of 26 to 10,000 euros to be multiplied by the additional decimes). Controls were specifically planned in 2021 in the area of telephone marketing, in collaboration with the ASBL Don't call me anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I'm sorry I didn't understand everything, but there was an echo. I just want to make it clear that before you arrived in committee at 3:45 p.m., I received an advertising phone call from a Belgian number. I do not understand your inability to trace this kind of number since it is clearly displayed. I therefore believe that it is possible to go back to the source of the call. I am surprised that it is not possible to find these ill-intentioned people. As far as Belgian and European companies are concerned, you have dealt with it in part, and I believe that fines should be increased. Otherwise, it will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u9	My colleague, it is very difficult to trace the numbers because people who use the national number technique are outside the European Union. This type of number is therefore not traceable. I will send you my answer and we may be able to discuss it again in the near future. I'm the subject of such calls myself. We have to act, but it's technically very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic614x.u10	Dear colleague D'Amico, you can quickly find the reply of the Secretary of State in the full report.
