ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, we are not going to lie to each other: it is a wind of freedom that blew yesterday at the end of the Concertation Committee (Codeco), with clear prospects for recovery for many sectors and a summer synonymous with relaxation. After the return of high school students to 100 per cent in the face-to-face on Monday, the horizon is also brightened for a lot of workers who will finally be able to return to work. Besides, we also think we're going to be able to build social ties, go to the restaurant, have a drink with friends in a café, go to the movies, participate in concerts. For all of this, respect for basic rules and vaccination are obviously the keys to our return to normal life. If we are to be in the European lead today, we must convince again and again and deploy all the necessary strategies to strengthen membership. Prime Minister, specific protocols will have to be implemented in restaurants, cafes, theatres, cinemas, fitness rooms, etc. What is the status of the consultations? Can all of this be determined early enough so that the sectors can prepare for it? Finally, there is this famous coronapass, the covid safe ticket to please some, an initiative that we support in order to allow access to major events, such as festivals, while guaranteeing the safety of participants. Minister, we know you're a Tomorrowland fan. That's very good! It's an exceptional festival. But there are obviously other events and many young people dream of rock festivals, hip-hop festivals, etc. How can they be guaranteed equal access to these events, even though they have not yet had the opportunity to be vaccinated? In short, how will you ensure equal access for all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u3	Prime Minister, you are offering us great prospects for the summer. We will be able to return to normal life step by step, with festivals, the European Championships on a large screen, terraces with friends; your roadmap makes it all possible. However, it is also a roadmap with a set of conditions, conditions that are clear to everyone and that everyone can follow. I myself hope to be on a festival meadow this summer, together with friends, without having to worry. That's what I long for. However, we do not achieve this by ourselves. I'm standing here with a small heart, too. After all, so many relaxations bring with them risks. That's inevitable. The question is how do we ensure that the risks do not become too great and that we do not take unnecessary risks and that it can happen safely. It's possible. The event industry itself asks to bet on testing so that it can be ensured that at a festival with 65,000 attendees no one is infected with the coronavirus. The reactions are mixed: a lot of people are very happy, others are worried. There is happiness because festivals are possible again, but at the same time some are concerned and wonder whether this can be safe and whether there will be an impact on hospitals. Young people are happy that they can go to camp, but at the same time they want to prevent the camp from being cancelled just before departure. I therefore call on you to be fully committed to testing so that events can continue in full safety this summer, not just by hoping, but by checking. Why didn't the Consultative Committee yesterday choose to secure the events of next summer by focusing more on testing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u4	For months, Prime Minister, most Belgians have given the best of themselves to respect the measures we have had to impose on them. Friends and enemies will recognise that vaccination campaigns in our country are well organised and that the thousands of volunteers are a foundation for this. That makes it possible for us to regain our freedom. It is good that the youth can go to camp in bigger bubbles and finally there is good news for the event sector and the catering industry, not only for the people who work in it and earn their living with it, but also for us who want to drink a glass and go to a festival. How many workers who work at home every day will not be happy with the return days to see their colleagues again and to meet with each other? Those who can or may put on their hats for that do not play a role, but how we will concreteise and fill in that regained freedom in safe and healthy conditions, that does play a role, because that is essential so that we can finally preserve the regained freedom. In addition to the economic, which is so important for our well-being, I would also like to focus on the social, Prime Minister, on the families and associations that are so permanently at our heart. The federal and other governments want to extend the number of allowed contacts to four. You are providing for possible further relaxation for the future, but I would like to call for convergence with the other measures, so that larger family parties in the garden are possible and when it rains, also inside. Communive parties and other family parties should also be possible by summer, not only in commercial venues, but also in meeting centres or parish halls, so that it becomes a real summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are from a hellish year. For more than a year, everyone had to make sacrifices: people who lost someone, people who couldn't work, people whose business was closed. It's been a hell of a time for everyone for over a year. The government, which had to manage the crisis together with the Länder, sometimes faced very difficult times and had to communicate difficult decisions and explain to the people that something that was seen as obvious was no longer allowed the day after. Fortunately, the situation is much better now and this is due to the consistent course that has been followed throughout the winter, and to the successful vaccination campaign, as Mr Verherstraeten has just said. Not only the federal government, but also the state governments, which have taken consistent decisions together in the Consultative Committee and which have led our country through the crisis in a better way than other countries, deserve tribute. With us the schools were open almost all the time, we could see each other outside and there was some freedom, especially compared to our neighbours. In the coming summer we will really be able to take back our freedom thanks to the vaccination campaign, where nearly four million inhabitants will be given a first injection by the end of the next week and thanks to a plan worked out by the summer with what we will all be able to do in that summer of freedom. Mr Prime Minister, that is not obvious, of course. Of course, there are also precautionary measures that you have proposed to the Consultation Committee in the form of thresholds, such as the 500-bed threshold for intensive care. We're definitely on our way. We'll get there in early June. Of course, we must keep following that, but we cannot keep society locked any longer. People need freedom, and that is also justified, given the evolution of the vaccination campaign. Prime Minister, you have a roadmap. At what times will you evaluate these different objectives in order to be able to take the further steps towards freedom?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u6	Prime Minister, on behalf of the Reform Movement, we really wanted to express our satisfaction with yesterday's decisions. With our President Georges-Louis Boucher, we have been advocating for many weeks for this return to the path of freedom. A midway is possible. We borrowed it yesterday. We congratulate you on that. Nevertheless, we regret a number of comments or comments from experts who, from now on in the press, criticise a number of measures which they find somewhat too bold. This creates a little blur and it will be useful to go back to the firmness of the commitments made for the dates of reopening at this topical meeting. It may also be necessary for the measures decided yesterday to be implemented to ensure that there is more consultation with the sector so as not to duplicate the mistakes made in relation to the Horeca. Moreover, with regard to plexiglas, are you going to go back to this measure, which results in the loss of 25% of the capacity of our restaurant owners today? At the MR level, we hope so. In terms of recovery, a number of sectors are being put back to work. Horeca was able to benefit from a 6% VAT reduction. But as head of government, we also expect you to take similar initiatives for other sectors that have been closed for months. These contact trades, those independents of culture, sport and event will return to work. Of course, they have to be backed up. We therefore await your proposals in this regard. However, there is a lot of talk about ventilation. It's back in the press today. Your Minister of Health is blocking future technology that protects self-employed people, citizens and consumers more from the virus. This is UV-C technology. It has been installed in France (in EHPADs), Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, on school buses, in schools... And in Belgium, we're waiting. We're not moving! I am also asking you about this new technology, which is one of the tools that can help us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u7	Prime Minister, communicating remains one of the weaknesses of this government. For weeks the outdoor plan for the catering industry had been announced, and yet you managed to create confusion. The ministerial decision was only completed a few hours before the opening. Meanwhile, in good faith, the catering operators had made the necessary preparations by calling staff or by investing thousands of euros in plexi screens and other security measures. Until a few hours before the ministerial decision was published, it was still clear on the website of the FPS Economy that these plexi screens were possible. So you managed to make something that Saturday after many months had to be a beautiful moment turn into a disappointment. Surprised again by the people in the catering industry. Who can blame them? As a blow to the head, Minister Clarinval admitted earlier this week that he asked you for clarity in April, but that it remained deafeningly silent. You look like a student who has to open his books for the first time the night before the exam. Do you really not understand how important this is? Don't you really understand that you're constantly reattaching your blunder book with new anecdotes? Even the creators of the most popular soap operas in Flanders would not come to mind. Mr Prime Minister, how is it possible for the FPS Economy to publish something other than what was later made in the ministerial decision? Why was that ministerial decision published so late? Will you be on time next time? Who will pay for the investments of the catering industry, which later turned out to be useless?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u8	Prime Minister, the good news is clear: that is the outcome of yesterday's sitting. By the way, we cannot say that people are getting their freedom back, but hopefully the government will take the people away from them a little less freedom in the future. After all, the starting point remains normality, starting point that we actually reversed until now. In any case, vaccination success has of course played a very important role. I think there was a misunderstanding in your communication yesterday, and it would be good if you could get rid of it. It has been said that people will be allowed to receive four people instead of two from 9 June. However, it gave the impression that this number would be maintained after that, and I assume that this is not the intention. That has caused some unrest, so please put it right. I also note that the government too easily assumes that a company can be turned on and off just like a light bulb. All you have to do is push the button to turn the light on or off. However, the people of the catering industry must prepare for the reopening and if two of your ministers think that plexi screens are an excellent opportunity to expand capacity, while two other ministers, Mrs Verlinden and Mr Van Quickenborne, then say that this is an attack on health, then the people of the catering industry get angry. When will you abolish this measure again? I have already asked this through the press earlier this week, and I hope to get an answer to that now. Soon, café visits will also be allowed inside. Perhaps you can make it clear in the remaining time whether the use of plexiscreens offers relief there too or will you ban it again two minutes before the opening? It may be good to make a communication on this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u9	Prime Minister, given the importance of the subject, you will have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first I will outline a few general points and then I will deal with a number of specific questions. It is clear that with the Summer Plan, an important course has been taken in the management of this pandemic. Basically, we are moving from a collective approach to a much more individual approach that focuses on risk management – which is really at the heart of our action. This means that we know very well that a life with zero risk does not exist but that we are doing everything to minimize these risks. You may have noticed that the steps we are taking are not specific, where we would say yes to one sector and not to another. We are now working on a cross-cutting approach, while ensuring that these measures remain safe. This is clearly not a moment of euphoria. However, it is a moment of responsibility, caution and above all trust. At the current stage of the pandemic, we are confident that people understand very well what dangerous behaviour is and what behavior is perfectly defendable for the situation we are in today. In the past few months, some people may have started to think that a government should determine everything in life, even in private life, to determine how people should deal with risk. However, that is not the society in which we live, that is not how society works in our country. We live in a free country, in which we assume that people can make the right choices themselves. I therefore believe that we have reached a stage where we can give responsibility to people. We are convinced that people will deal with this responsibility in a responsible manner. In this pandemic we have had to introduce some very serious restrictions on individual freedom of people. It was never self-evident to me, it has always been very difficult decisions. Parliament has, moreover, been a very important sounding board. It is important that a government has a counterweight, and Parliament has been very often in favour of measures that restrict freedom. I have also always said that we would not keep these measures for a day too long. As soon as the situation improves, as I have always indicated, we would take steps to give people their freedom back. The essence of this Summer Plan is also its progressive character. We do this step by step, with some caution, by keeping an eye on the epidemiological situation and the progress of vaccination. It must be understood that the next stage that we have just decided is scheduled for June 9, 2021, in a month's time. In one month, an additional 2.2 million people will have received the vaccine. So we will clearly be in a much more stable situation than the already greatly improved situation we are now in. This Summer Plan is based on vaccination solidarity and is starting to work. Today, 4.7 million vaccines have been injected into our country. The rate of vaccination in our country is higher today than in the United Kingdom or in the United States. Yesterday, four out of ten adults had already received their first shot. We also see that 90% of those over 65 have already received initial protection in our country today. In the coming weeks, a lot of people will be invited to have the vaccine given. At the beginning of June, the most vulnerable, the 65-plussers and the people with an underlying condition will have received their first protection. At that time, nearly half of the adult population will be protected. Today there is one municipality in our country, Langemark-Poelkapelle, where 99% of the 65-plussers have been vaccinated. I know that a number of other municipalities are also on that path. These are rather encouraging figures, which it is important to put in perspective in relation to the approach decided by the Conciliation Committee. It is clear that we will act gradually, step by step, while wishing to apply a safe and responsible method. It is important that we look forward as well. I know that a number of people have pointed out the uncertainties with which we are still living and the risks that exist. There are risks in terms of new variants and the progress of the vaccination campaign. We are absolutely aware of the need to keep an eye on this. But it is not because there are uncertainties and risks that it should stop us from planning today. We want a more pleasant summer, which is not organized in advance for two weeks, but by explaining today what the possibilities will be at that time. Of course, we will see how the situation evolves further. The Plan was resonated with a call: a call for responsibility for everyone and not just at the level of political decision-makers. This is a very broad responsibility: employers who, from 9 June onwards, will be able to organise days of safe return to work; the Horeca which will soon be able to welcome customers inside; and fitness rooms which will have to ensure the quality of the air in the rooms. Mr. Ducrame, I have to ask myself about the UV-C disinfection that you have asked, because from my point of view it is air quality that is important and not specifically technology. We also call for the responsibility of organizers of events of all sizes, because as you have seen, from June onwards, events will bring together up to 400 people outside. After that, we can gather up to 5000 people outside. These gatherings can take place safely through clear protocols, thus providing the opportunity for hundreds of events to take place. Each organizer, small or large, will have the opportunity to prove that he or she is able to predict his or her event safely. Indeed, we will offer an alternative to allow larger events. I'll come back to it later. The Summer Plan, as indicated, appeals to our responsibility and allows us to rebuild our social and economic life gradually, thoughtfully, safely and responsibly. I am convinced that an approach based on thoughtfulness, security and responsibility is at present a much better approach than an approach to inability and always putting the emphasis on what is not possible. I now turn to a number of questions that have been asked. It is clear that a number of opportunities have been created for June. Thus, Mr Verherstraeten, there is the possibility of receiving four people at home. Opportunities have been created in the field of catering. It has not yet been specified what can happen in July and August. We have not yet done so, because we want to look at evolution. However, let it be absolutely clear that the measures completed before June do not mean that there will be no evolution in the months that follow. That was also a question asked by Mr De Roover. For example, there may be an evolution for the catering industry, as regards the number of people at the table and the protective materials that could be used. I'm still going into a punctual question about the big events and the way the government wants to organize them. It is clear that we want to create an opportunity with the Covid Safe Ticket to make big events possible. Firstly, for the use of that instrument, it must be very clear that it can only be used for the events which the government indicates should take place with such an instrument. Secondly, its use must be very clearly limited in time. In addition, there is the Digital Green Certificate, which is developed specifically at European level for travel. In my view, that should remain limited until travel. Let us be very clear. I wouldn't want our society to evolve into a pass company, where there's a pass to go to the hairdresser or restaurant. Our freedom will not depend on having a pass. Let's get that straight. That is not the kind of society we want. We want a society in which everyone can be safe, in which everyone can be vaccinated and in which we can use our freedom safely, albeit without having to move to a permanent control society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers and for your reassuring speech. We want to believe it! We want to believe that, little by little, our freedoms will take precedence over these restrictions. I hope that the government will ensure this equal treatment between citizens, for those who love Tomorrowland as well as those who love other festivals. I hope that this equality system will be at the heart of this government. Finally, how can we not mention, on this day of nurses, the situation that sometimes remains very tense in hospitals. Vaccination is an essential element, but we must not, under the pretext of this freedom that could be found, slap those women and men who have carried the health of Belgians on their arms since the beginning of the crisis. Let us continue to respect the barrier gestures, intensify vaccination and continue to dismantle the anti-vaccination arguments. If we wish to regain our freedoms, we will have to show responsibility but also solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u12	Prime Minister, I share your enthusiasm for the summer, and I share your concern about the thresholds, but I would like to return to the tests. You yourself say that you want to rely on the responsibility of the people who can judge themselves when a situation is dangerous or not. You say you don't want to enter passes to get a haircut, but that's not the point at all. How can someone who's on a festival in front of a stage with 65,000 men around him, whether he's careful or not, know if the person next to him or himself is infected? In such situations, of course, it is only safe and responsible to do so. The question is then whether it is unreasonable to ask someone to submit a negative test or whether it only makes sense in such a case? I think the second and in that case it is a collective responsibility, not an individual. Everyone's looking forward to the summer. It is important that yesterday the message was given that more will be possible. That is incredibly important for everyone, but let us also organize the summer safely so that no one should be disappointed anytime soon. That is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u13	Prime Minister, your positive Summer Plan rightly appeals to our responsibility. I understand the concerns of some people about the measures, but I also think we should have confidence. Indeed, in countries where vaccination has already been increased, such as the United Kingdom and Israel, there has been a serious relaxation, but the figures are still evolving favourably. That's important. Prime Minister, I have argued for the families and I thank you for these enlargements. You will have time in the coming weeks to expand further, in consultation. Families who come together are not professional organisations, but they will behave very professionally, because they are people who are closest to each other. I would also like to involve the associations, because it is important that social life can be restarted in safe conditions, in local halls.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u14	Prime Minister, I think that we are now in a really important phase in this pandemic. I understand the concerns of some of my colleagues who feel that things are moving a little too fast, but we are coming out of a phase of acute pandemic control where older people and people with illness ended up in hospital. This has always been the commitment of all these freedom-limiting measures: to ensure that the health care system is maintained and that we still have certain activities to carry out. Now we are going into a different stage, that of risk management. One cannot go to zero per cent risk if one has vaccinated all the vulnerable groups who threatened to end up in hospital. Then one must dare to take a calculated risk to give those freedoms back to people who lost them for 12 to 15 months. That's what you're doing with that plan. You place responsibility on the people themselves because basically everyone has access to a vaccine. If you have received a vaccine, the chance that you will end up in a hospital is particularly low. That is the element of personal responsibility. If we do that, vulnerable people won't be able to get back into hospital soon and get back together in a gradual way. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your commitment over the last few months. We know that it has sometimes been absolutely inconvenient to take these measures, but now you can give them back, together with the Consultative Committee and the Prime Ministers, who took good decisions yesterday and give hope to the people to embrace that freedom this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, normally these are things that are not said, but I am particularly pleased with your answer! Indeed, I have found an answer from the Liberal De Croo. As a liberal, it affects me to see a balanced response to respect for freedoms, a response committed in terms of responsibility, a response which indicates, with regard to the covid safe ticket, that Belgians will not be discriminated against among themselves and that it is a matter of reopening our society by relying, of course, on vaccination but also on PCR tests and perhaps also, tomorrow, on self-tests. Thank you for your response to UV-C technology. It would be a matter of not depriving us of a technology that disinfects the air. Perhaps I expected a little too much in relation to my question about the recovery for those sectors that do not benefit as the Horeca from a reduction in VAT today. I think they will need it tomorrow, quickly, on your initiative. We are waiting for him as a Liberal. I understand, of course, that you have not answered my question about the criticisms of a number of experts. I would like to say a few words to them that the collegiality of decisions such as those taken by the Codeco implies measuring the appetite that has sometimes been developed over the months for media expression; in fact, collegiality imposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u16	Prime Minister, you will do whatever else you do, and that is all about the hot stuff, because you have not given any answers to the questions I have asked you here today. However, you also owe text and explanation to the catering industry. The previous speakers have come here to give an anthology and act like a real applause machine. I won't do that myself. After all, it seems quite obvious to me that today you can finally give perspective to the catering and events sector. Over and over again, you sent conflicting messages into the world. Your government comes across to the people as a Mexican army that will launch when the calf has already drowned. You must ensure that you are on time with your ministerial decisions this time, because it is your job to provide legal certainty. Make sure your government doesn't communicate conflictingly this time and that you don't smear people against their hairs this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u17	Prime Minister, I did not get an answer to my questions, but I did, together with Mr Ducarme, discover some amazing liberal undertones in your answer. That was months ago! Welcome back! However, it is only words. For months now we have been saying that you must be careful with patronizing and paternalism towards the population. You cannot ask the people to leave common sense to the government. People don't like to do that, and as far as I'm concerned, they're right. We will follow you as easy sheep, as far as your promises of freedom and trust in the citizen are concerned. However, you do not answer the question of what should happen to the plexiglass. Last summer it was safe and now it isn't. Why the total contradiction in your government? What about when a café visit is soon allowed inside again? You didn't answer that. This means that the people of the hospitality industry may not be informed or helped until 24 hours before the reopening. If plexiglasses do not help, Prime Minister, you must at least close this café urgently, because there are twenty people sitting here behind plexiglass, under the illusion that it is a safe way of working. Be consistent with your government and with the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, last weekend, in barely 24 hours, more than 2,000 illegal migrants set foot ashore on the Italian island of Lampedusa. That's another sad record. The influx of illegal migrants into Italy has tripled compared to the same period last year. At the same time, migrants are also pouring into Spain and the Canary Islands. The figures and images are very clear. Illegal migration to Europe is once again on the rise, and all the evidence suggests that this upward trend will continue in the future. That finally makes a lot of European leaders think about it. Mr Barnier, French former Minister and former European Commissioner, was quite clear yesterday: 'Il faut supendre l'immigration pendant trois ou cinq ans. Schengen needs to be discussed with our European partners." The French were clearly woken up after their soldiers in a courageous open letter warned of a possible civil war as a result of mass migration. The British also say that they will no longer allow migrants if they have already travelled through a safe country. Even the Austrian Government, which consists of a coalition of Christian Democrats and Greens, stated in clear terms the day before yesterday that they will no longer take over migrants. What concrete initiatives, both on preventing illegal migration and on the readmission of illegal migrants, can we expect from you? What initiatives can we expect from Europe? What is the state of play in the negotiations between Spain and Morocco on preventing illegal migration by sea and on the repatriation of at least some of the illegal migrants? The most important question is this: can you clarify? It is reported that the Italian Government is pressing for the readmission of illegal migrants in Lampedusa and Sicily. What is the Belgian Government's position on this? Are you prepared, as the Austrian Government has already done, to rule out participation in these types of distribution plans clearly and clearly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, in recent days hundreds of migrants and refugees have reached Lampedusa. It is not the first time that we have seen people fleeing violence and deprivation trying to reach Europe. Nor is it the first time that we have seen that European solidarity, when it comes to the distribution and resettlement of refugees, remains a dead letter. What is happening at the external borders is the result of a European model of migration that is failing. Europe fails to catch people in a humane way. Europe is failing because there are no safe and legal migration routes for people looking for protection. Europe is failing because it has still not succeeded in achieving solidarity between the Member States. What is happening in Lampedusa and in the Mediterranean is not the fault of the refugee seeking a better life for himself and his or her family. The tragedy that is taking place is caused by European quarrels. The European Member States urgently need to work on an asylum and migration pact that will pass the human rights test. However, our country must not wait for that pact to come. No, Belgium must play a leading role in this. Colleagues, this government is opting for a realistic asylum and migration policy. This means that we must not be guided by fear and xenophobia, but by humanity and justice. Mr Secretary of State, what will you do in the short term? How will you help the people of Lampedusa? European Commissioner for Migration Johansson already made an urgent appeal to show solidarity with Italy on Monday 10 May 2021. This month you will also see your colleagues from the European Council. Will you advocate reforming the Dublin system in order to achieve a system of greater solidarity? What other positions will you take with your European colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u20	Madam President, 150,000 people arrived in Italy by sea in 2015. Europe then showed its heart and promised to work on understanding. Colleagues have rightly pointed it out, the European model of asylum and migration as we know it today is bankrupt. Working on the mind no longer means the unbridled chaos we know, but proper management of migration. This means no longer individually negotiating re-admission with 27 European Member States, but jointly conducting strong negotiations at European level. This means supporting countries of origin and addressing the root causes of migration. There are reasons why people are leaving. Europe has a very important role to play in this too. It also means strengthening legal migration channels that take into account the needs of our labour market and, yes, can also apply visa sanctions at times when it is necessary, when certain countries refuse to cooperate. An intellectual policy also means not letting migrants wander around from one country to another, but organising a screening at the European external borders in order to distinguish immediately between who really flees, who really needs protection, and who does not. It has already been said here, the number of boat migrants is increasing again. In Italy, 12,000 people arrived in 2021 for the time being. In 2015, that was 12,000 people a month. Today we are talking about 12,000 people in total. But the figures are increasing and we must not let it get this far again. The migration pact is not only important for Italy. Italy is not the only country to deal with a large influx of asylum. If you look at the figures, you will find that the number of asylum applications in Italy this year was 12.94 per million inhabitants. In Belgium, this is three times higher. I hear Italy's demand for solidarity and better management very well and very rightly so. Let us be clear: Belgium is and will remain a country of solidarity, but in a controlled framework in which the Member States at the external borders must also assume their responsibilities. An ad hoc relocation of boat migrants towards Belgium is therefore not the right approach. That is not the structural approach that is needed. What we want to do and what we are ready to do is to support Italy, Greece, Spain and all the other countries at the external borders of Europe even more, together with the European agencies. The current situation shows that the countries at the external borders have every interest in going for the migration pact, because today's European migration policy is patchwork that has long proven to be unsustainable. Europe will always protect those who need it. I do not deviate from that, the government does not deviate from that. Europe is not an island that can close itself off from the rest of the world, and Belgium is certainly not an island that can close itself off from the rest of Europe, but we must be aware that asylum and migration policies cannot happen in any way. What is more, it has to be done in our way, more specifically checked, because that is the only way to ensure that we can continue to protect those who really need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u21	Madam President, Secretary of State, with this policy the government has not shown its heart as you claim, with this policy the government has shown its naivety. Now, finally, take your responsibility and do what our citizens ask. Stop handing out Win for Life notes to anyone who migrates illegally to Europe. Stop inciting illegal migration by distributing benefits, by free housing and by non-existent return policies. Recognize the reality at last. Our country is full. Any migrant who comes to our country illegally must be returned immediately. That is the only way to ensure that our thousands of years of European civilisation can continue, and it is also the only way to ensure that no more migrants drown in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u22	Madam President, Minister of State, thank you for your reply and for explaining the figures. I have also heard you say that we need to think about new legal migration channels, such as work visas. Proper management of the asylum procedure is very important to us. I wish you every success in the European consultation. However, our group is concerned about border procedures. We don't think they'll be able to solve everything. In any case, a border procedure must not lead to a violation of the rights of refugees to apply for asylum. I would therefore like to ask you to ensure that asylum seekers' rights are safeguarded and that Europe accepts its responsibility and that we certainly do not outsource our asylum policy to countries such as Turkey and Libya. Unlike the Flemish interest, this Vivaldi government chooses a policy based on human rights and human dignity, which is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u23	Madam President, Minister, young people who graduate, do not have a job and have not worked enough days to qualify for unemployment benefit can benefit from an integration allowance after a certain waiting period. The Di Rupo Government decided in 2011 to limit that benefit in time to a maximum of three years. That restriction entered into force in 2015. Until then, this allowance was unlimited in time, so that some people received such an integration allowance for twenty-five years as a fresh graduate. For twenty-five years, Di Rupo got paid without having worked for one day. But it is also a good thing, because the limitation of this benefit over time proved to be a particularly activating measure very quickly. The figures from the RVA and from the figures I have requested from your predecessor show that more than half of the people whose integration allowance was discontinued have passed through to work and started work, most of them even within six months. When the money tap was turned off in 2015, also for the people who had made their profession during 25 years of drawing a benefit, 15 people went to court. In appeal they got it from the RVA. I was wondering how that was possible. Now it appears that the RVA has withdrawn its appeal in court itself. That is a strange way of doing things, since an institution is simply pulling the law aside, whereas it is precisely its mission to monitor the application and compliance with that law. That's gonna raise a few questions. Minister, under whose authority did the RVA withdraw his appeal? Does the Croo government think it is right that people who can work, but have literally not put a finger on them for 25 years, should continue to receive benefits up to the centuries, amen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u24	Mr Anseeeuw, as you point out, there have been a number of judgments by the courts on the changes to the rules governing the reception benefits in relation to the standstill principle. It should be noted that not all decisions had the same outcome. Some were beneficial to the right holders, others were not. In each case, the judge examined whether the legal provisions had been applied and then gave a ruling. It is not for me to give these judgments a positive or negative comment. Whatever I think, judicial decisions must be respected. Both the Minister and Parliament must respect the principle of separation of powers. This is an essential element of our rule of law and a pillar of our democracy. I have therefore asked the RVA to apply the judgments systematically. I also asked the RVA to stop systematically appealing against decisions, now that the case law has been established following a judgment of the Court of Cassation. I believe that a final decision should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u25	Minister, you are very clear. When the eligibility allowance was limited in time, there was a fear, especially on the left, that this would only cause people to pass on to other benefits. Nothing less true, it was a very activating measure. More than half of those involved went to work, even within six months. You are very clear about the position of the Croo Government. Apparently, it's on your orders that the RVA has withdrawn his appeal. The Croo government's position is in so many words that it is fair to say that people who can work for 25 years literally do not have a finger and should have an endless right to benefits. The Croo government is in fact more left-wing than the Di Rupo government. Mr. Secretary, as far as you're concerned, of course we know who will pay the bill. Instead of making benefits more activating, you're turning history back with this government. We all know who pays the bill, especially the hardworking Fleming. Bien joe, dear Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u26	Minister, how long are we going to leave Israel unpunished? How much longer will we accept the bombing of the Palestinian people? How much longer will we accept Israel's colonization of Palestinian territories? How much longer? How many deaths would it take to dare to impose sanctions against the State of Israel? I am telling you this, Madam Minister, because in recent days the policy of colonization has intensified in East Jerusalem; already that Israel's presence in East Jerusalem is illegal, but in addition, it leads a policy by hunting the Palestinians out of their homes and forcing them to leave their homes. I ask you, minister, how would you react if you were driven out of your house? You, ladies and gentlemen, what would be your reaction if we landed with an army to put you out and say, "This is no longer your home here"? How would you react? Would you stay with your arms crossed, would you say "amen" or would you resist? That's exactly what's happening today. It is an oppressive, colonizing state that faces the resistance of a Palestinian people. It's not from today. It's been 73 years! It is from the Nakba that there is this oppression and resistance under the silence of Europe and Belgium as if nothing happened! This cowardice, Madam Minister, is unacceptable. So will you, yes or no, put in place sanctions against the State of Israel to respond to its aggressive and deadly policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u27	Madam Minister, at least 40 deaths, including at least 13 children, are the provisional balance of the escalating violence in Israel and Palestine. A conflict that is sometimes far away is suddenly visible again. In the West people can sometimes forget the conflict, but for the people on the ground it is daily reality. As the bombing continues, many fear a new war. This time the fuse was lit because of the possible expulsion, illegal under international law, of four Palestinian families in East Jerusalem to make way for Israeli settlers. That's not new. It happens a lot more often. Colonists can claim land on historical grounds. Palestinians can't do that. For example, families with children are expelled and fundamental inequalities persist. It is not a conflict between equals. We are dealing here with an illegal occupying force which is flagrantly violating international law and human rights. Even before the explosion of violence today, that problem had long been known. Madam Secretary, you are calling for a ceasefire. You have unequivocally condemned the violence. We support you in that. The violence must stop now, just like the fundamental inequality that the violence causes. We in Vooruit therefore believe that more needs to be done to put out the fire now. We ask you to take action and take clear steps to stop annexation and illegal settlements. The coalition agreement gives you a clear mandate for this. Find allies, come up with effective measures to stop annexation and work on the recognition of the Palestinian state. What action will the government take to stop the continuing annexation, a clear violation of international law? What will you concretely (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u28	Minister, it has been months since the Israeli political class, Netanyahu's radicalised, fanaticated and consenting hostage of the supremacists and extremists, continued its work of repression and destruction, operating a de facto annexation of the Palestinian territories. In occupied East Jerusalem, the wounded already number hundreds while Gaza is again counting its deaths. The chronology of the facts is known. She's always the same. In Sheikh Jarrah, Israeli occupying forces expel Palestinian families from their homes to settle settlers, calling for Palestinian resistance and Israeli repression. On Monday, fanatic settlers planned to celebrate the settlement of Jerusalem, calling for Palestinian resistance and Israeli repression. Year after year, in violation of international law, the Palestinian people had been deprived of their rights, lands and freedom of movement. Palestinian resistance and Israeli repression. The polite and timid words of Europeans have not changed anything. These words – the language of Oslo – repeated infinitely, sometimes to the absurd, have become inoperative and vain. Minister, in the face of Israeli radicalisation, statements of principle have become derisory. How far will we have to go in the erasure of the prospects for peace before we act? How many injustices will it take? We Socialists are telling you that now is the time to take action. Now is the time to take action. It is now that sanctions must be taken to stop the crazy train that the Israeli government has become. Belgium could take an international initiative under the aegis of the United Nations, under the aegis of the European Union. Will you have that audacity? Will you have that ambition? When do you intend to establish a list of effective countermeasures against annexation policy? When do you intend to deepen the differentiation measures to exclude settlements from relations between Israel, Belgium and the European Union? Is Belgium ready to consider that it is finally time to recognize Palestine as a fully-fledged State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u29	Madam Secretary, once again, the violence between Israel and the Palestinians started in East Jerusalem is escalating. Once again, bombs, grenades and missiles are raining on an innocent population. Again, unfortunately, the international community is on the sidelines and reacts with horror to the violence. We must ensure as soon as possible that the conflict does not escalate into a large-scale open war. It is clear that extremists on both sides, with Hamas on the Palestinian side, are abusing the escalation. It is also clear where the provocation came from. It has been said on several occasions here by colleagues: Israeli occupation policy continues with great determination, especially after the one-sided 'peace agreement' negotiated, in fact an annexation agreement, by Mr Trump. Just before Mr Biden arrived, thousands of settlement houses were announced in South Jerusalem and in the West Bank. The cherry on the cake was the illegal, possible eviction from Palestinian houses in East Jerusalem. As a result, a devastated Palestinian youth has taken up the stones. That's what Hamas has been misusing. Madam Minister, condemning by Belgium or the European Union is no longer enough. Last year, the High Representative announced a list of counter-measures, a kind of option paper. However, the layout of it did not work out. That is why we have stated in the government agreement that Belgium must play a leading role in the European Union in order to draw up a list of counter-measures. That's what the coalition agreement says, and that's what we're asking you about. What will Belgium play a leading role in the European Union and internationally, in order to bring about counter-measures? You are calling for a ceasefire, but we must also take the opportunity to start peace negotiations on the basis of internationally recognised parameters and two-state solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u30	Minister, since April, we have seen once again a resurgence of violence already affecting certain territories in Gaza and several localities in the West Bank, which now seems to be concentrating around the holy places of Jerusalem. Moreover, as many colleagues have pointed out, these clashes have already caused many deaths and hundreds of injuries. Jerusalem and its holy places should not be taken hostage, neither by a land nor by a people, let alone by a religion. The historical status quo of the Mosque Esplanade must be preserved and protected. On the other hand, Jerusalem – like all the occupied territories – must no longer suffer the horrors of Israeli colonization, which you condemn, as all our foreign ministers have done. We are also concerned about the power vacuum in Palestine – where the electoral process has just been postponed – but also in Israel, where four elections took place in just two years, without a clear solution. Minister, how do you intend to react in consultation with your European counterparts? How can we do this effectively? Have you contacted your American, Jordanian and Egyptian counterparts? Are we prepared to invest much more in this region in order to bring peace to it? That is what we wish with all our heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u31	Madam Secretary, we are once again witnessing a blazing violence in the Middle East. It began with the expulsion of the Palestinian families. The issue rightly caused Palestinian and international protests with an appeal from the US President to Israel to refrain from these expulsions. Meanwhile, we see an escalation of violence, which manifests itself in confrontations on the Temple Mount, in rocket attacks from Gaza and in military actions from Israel. Everyone agrees that the situation is impossible. You have already stated in the previous topical debate that the expulsion of Palestinian families, unilateral actions, is a violation of international law. We strongly condemn the increasing violence and the bombings. After all, violence is never justified and, above all, will not resolve the conflict. Violence is the result of the failure of international efforts to find a way out of the conflict. We therefore call for the immediate cessation of violence. We ask that all parties sit down at once again around the table. The solution can only be achieved through negotiation and mutual respect. The European Union, together with the European Commission and its envoys, must play a role in the Middle East peace process in the context of enlargement. What position will you take in the European Union to try to resolve the inflammable conflict? What steps will be taken to bring all parties back to the negotiating table? After all, that is the only way out. Will you also discuss the conflict with the new European Union Special Representative, who was not appointed until 1 May 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u32	Madam Minister, I would like to return to three images of Israel and Palestine in particular. The first is that of these Palestinian families evicted from their homes by Israeli settlers in East Jerusalem, an illegally occupied and annexed territory. The second is that of settlers celebrating in front of the fire that broke out on the Mosque Esplanade after violence that resulted in more than 700 injuries. The third is the exchange of fire, rockets and bombings between Israel and the Gaza Strip, resulting in several deaths, including at least thirteen children from the Gaza Strip and three people from southern Israel. Three images show that provocations and the continuation of Israeli settlement policy can only lead to an escalation of violence. Of course, we condemn all those who use this violence. Last week, my colleague Simon Moutquin asked you about the expulsions from Jerusalem. He had rightly told you that we had been in the screenplay of the movie "One Day Without Ends" for 60 years. As long as we do not change our attitude in our approach to events, we will be condemned to relive them indefinitely. Today, it is time to have a strong voice to condemn non-compliance with international law. Let us remember that the original offences are occupation and colonization. It is also time to take strong action and put in place multilateral and bilateral countermeasures to force the Israeli occupier to cease this policy. Madam Minister, I know that you are working on a policy of differentiation with regard to Israeli settlements. The ban on imports, the labelling of settlement products and sanctions against Israeli decision-makers associated with the occupation policy can create effective pressure. It is time to speed up this work, as well as updating the United Nations list of enterprises active in the occupied territories and thus complicit. Minister, do you condemn all the events that led to this escalation? What are the multilateral and bilateral means for Belgium to compel compliance with international law and to stop provocations? What is the status of this policy of differentiation, whose urgency is felt every day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions on a painful subject of news. I am very concerned, indeed, like you, at the escalation of tensions that leads Israel and the Palestinian territories into a new violent and dangerous spiral. These tensions are jeopardizing the future of a peace process that must be revived. Belgium urgently calls on all parties to defuse tensions, end violence and exercise utmost restraint. Threats of expulsion of Palestinian families have led to violent clashes last week in East Jerusalem as well as in holy places. As you know, Belgium is constantly calling on Israel to stop settlement activities, demolitions, and evictions that are contrary to international humanitarian law, and clearly endanger the viability of the two-State solution. Following these clashes, I also called for respect for the status quo in holy places. Hamas and Islamic Jihad then fired hundreds of rockets at Israeli civilian populations, which is unacceptable and contrary to international humanitarian law. Israel has responded to these attacks by unfortunately also causing civilian casualties, which we can never accept, notwithstanding Israel's right to defend itself by protecting its population. No matter what camp they are in, the death of civilians and especially children is still a tragedy. This escalation may render the situation on the spot completely uncontrollable. Our country therefore strongly and resolutely calls for an immediate ceasefire. What are we doing? I understand the question. The escalation of violence we are witnessing cannot be separated from the impasse in the peace process. Peace and security for Israelis and Palestinians can only be achieved through negotiations, not by weapons and violence. The immediate priority is to support all diplomatic initiatives, both bilaterally and multilaterally, aimed at ending the current escalation. The situation is being discussed in New York in the Security Council and we hope that a strong official statement by Members will follow. As far as the European Union is concerned, the European External Action Service has already expressed its concern and called for de-escalation. We have already had several contacts with our partners. As far as Belgium and its bilateral partners are concerned, the Palestinian and Arab ambassadors were received by my cabinet yesterday at their request. I myself received my Palestinian counterpart at the end of April and a telephone call was scheduled this morning with my Israeli colleague. That was postponed from the Israeli side for obvious reasons in view of the situation, but we will try to reschedule as soon as possible. My services are also in contact with the Israeli ambassador. Some have reiterated the importance of differentiation policy. I confirm that Belgium already applies the principle of differentiation. However, I have confirmed my policy to strengthen its implementation in accordance with the government agreement and in consultation with like-minded European partners. Some have also spoken in the press or via social networks, demanding immediate sanctions. As I have just explained, the moment is at peace, at dialogue, not at escalation. The action lies in the proliferation of diplomatic efforts to achieve an immediate ceasefire and a resumption of dialogue. We must keep our composure and our ability to speak to our interlocutors in this very complex conflict. It also seems essential to me to consider at European level a road map clearly identifying the incentives and/or binding measures that could be taken to support and actively participate in the resumption of peace negotiations. Belgium and its European partners must also show greater coherence in their approach to colonization. Belgium's role must be to support all efforts to promote the resumption of credible negotiations. Our common goal is to achieve a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. This peace must meet the aspirations of both peoples to live in peace and to live in security. Together we must contribute constructively to this common objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u34	Minister, I do not know where to start after hearing your answer. I'll make a correction already. When you speak of "violent spiral", you have to put the words: it is an "aggressive colonization". It is a state that colonizes and a people that resists it! It's not a spiral, it's an assault. However, I take note of your answer. You say that Belgium will not take sanctions today. You say that the Vivaldi (with Ecolo, the PS, the MR) will not be punished today against Israel. That's your message, minister. This is the problem: your double standards. When it comes to punishing China, Russia, etc., who are strategic adversaries, then everyone is in trouble, everyone takes note. On the other hand, in order to punish Israel, which violates international law in dozens of non-respected UN resolutions, you are not acting! Minister, you often put forward the argument of human rights, international law. What I see here is the use of human rights and international law for political and geostrategic interests. This hypocrisy is unacceptable and shameful!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, calling for a ceasefire and condemning violence is a first step, but it is not enough. Israel continues to pursue its illegal settlement policy, even though we continue to condemn it diplomatically. The problem is known to us, we know what to do. The government agreement gives you a clear mandate for more than one diplomatic conviction and specifically asks you to take action against annexation. Let this be the tipping point. Act together with Europe, and if that is not possible, perform together with like-minded states or act like Belgium itself. This is your mission, this is our message, this is what the coalition agreement demands from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u36	You know, Madam Minister, I do not believe that the intellectual comfort of sending back Palestinians and Israelis helps us to understand the truth of this conflict. I heard your call to de-escalation, to hear the legitimate aspirations of each other. This is the speech that we have heard for 20 years and that has never produced anything positive on the ground. Today, we must look at the reality in the face: we are dealing with state violence that terrorizes civilian populations through the action of an army, which makes possible the annexation of Palestinian territories, the theft of Palestinian territories. We are dealing with violence that is reflected in laws. We are dealing with ideological violence, that of fanatical settlers and supremacists, heirs to violent right-wing movements. And so, Madam Minister, we must dare to say that we are dealing with violence that is increasingly transforming Israel into a state of apartheid, as many international organizations say. In conclusion, I will quote Nelson Mandela, the first resistance to apartheid policy in South Africa. He said this, this sentence that everyone knows: "It always seems impossible until we do it". And then he dropped apartheid. Well, let us contribute to the same in Palestine! I am sorry for Mr Boukili's reply, because in addition, on the substance, I agree with him, but I find it a pity to use a conflict like this to stigmatize political parties or movements that otherwise share the same point of view, just to draw the cover for themselves. It doesn't seem consistent to me in the head of the PTB. (...) I am also speaking to you as you have quoted the PS and other parties. It is particularly unfortunate to receive lessons when, on other files, you hide in your mouse hole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u37	The powder keg of Jerusalem is on fire. Gaza has also caught fire. It is clear what you are saying: we must first put out this fire with diplomatic contacts and negotiations. But the fire will continue to smolder as long as Israel perseveres in the anger of the settlement policy. So we have to go beyond that. We must sit around the table together with like-minded states and consider what countermeasures are possible within the European Union. I've heard that clearly from you. For our group, these countermeasures may be far-reaching. It is indeed a policy of differentiation, but why are there no sanctions against the instigators of the settlement policy, against the provocateurs of Hamas? In this respect, you refer to the coalition agreement and we support you in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u38	Minister, thank you very much for your answer on this very difficult issue. We also feel in the weighting of your answers all this necessity and all the usefulness that we must demonstrate as a country to work towards a solution and a continuation of dialogue, while remaining firm on the condemnation of colonization and reciprocal violence. We must also be firm in our request to find a two-State solution. Since the time we have been talking about it, there are a lot of things that we should be putting in place. We must do so with our partners at European Union level and with the international organisations that we can also operate at some point in order to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u39	Madam Secretary, you have our full support for further mediation. This is not an easy task, but dialogue is the only way to find a solution. By making full use of the two-state solution, with respect for international law, one can achieve stability and avoid further deaths in that region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. Balance and justice are not about equalizing the aggressor and the aggressor, the occupier and the occupier. Justice is tantamount to being able to designate all violations of the law, all over the world, to end impunity and to restore the rights of the aggrieved. This is crucial, because there can be no lasting solution without justice or the application of the law. The Israeli ambassador dared to describe the Belgian position as hypocritical and cowardly. Hypocrisy is the double standard; cowardice is the illegitimate exercise of the force and policy of apartheid over an oppressed population. It is therefore time to apply sanctions and countermeasures. We have the means and a majority to do so, as the government agreement provides for it. In addition, we have the support of Parliament, as a resolution to this effect was adopted in June 2020. So let's do it! It is high time to put an end to the endless light.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u41	Madam President, Minister, the people who were temporarily unemployed due to the corona crisis in 2020 already lost a large amount of their gross monthly wages. Because of a bad government decision, there is also a spiced account through their tax bill. The trade unions warned their members in advance, they saw this coming from a long way. We have already pointed it out to you here in the hemisphere. Your answer, Minister, was that we should not blow up the issue, it would not be that bad, the people would not feel it. Excuse me, Minister, with your income perhaps not, but the testimonies are very different from what you said. They are not minus: 1,700 euros of extra taxes, 2,000 euros of extra taxes and, as if it is not enough, there is another 3,000 euros of extra taxes. It just can't go on. These people saw their monthly income cut by 30% to 40% last year! They feel that they are being punished twice, Minister. Once on a monthly basis and then at the end of the ride via the tax bill, a flat sweep right in their face. All this while the big multinationals, which make billions of profits, do not pay euro taxes. I invite you, Minister, to come with me to explain that to the people. Mr. Secretary, don't panic. We at the PVDA have the solution. Stay calm, it's simple. How much do the self-employed pay on the right to bridge? 16.5 %. I can say that the right of bridging is their unemployment benefit. Well, that's a good solution, we admit it. Then continue that line to the workers! Minister, do you recognise that there is an effective problem? Will you also tax the corona unemployment separately, as you have done for the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u42	Thank you, Mr Colebunders, for your question. As you know, the previous government has taken the decision to reduce the farm levy for temporary unemployment and for those who receive temporary unemployment. The decision we made at the time was a decision that everyone in this House supported, because we gave additional purchasing power to the people who needed it at the time, especially the lowest incomes. We did. What you're here to tell us today is a story we told at the time. We made it clear to everyone at the same time. We have said: pay attention, we are indeed going to take less in advance now, the company tax is indeed a pre-payment of the tax due and this could have an impact the following year. My administration's done some simulations on that. You know them, too. They're very clear. Firstly, it has no or very little impact on the people with the lowest incomes. The impact is limited because in many cases people will be reimbursed even more than in a situation without temporary unemployment. The proposal you are making today would have a negative impact on the lowest incomes. A second observation that has been made, Mr Colebunders, is that there are indeed differences. There are indeed people who have to pay extra or who will get a little less back. This is the case in very specific cases, especially when on a monthly basis people were temporarily unemployed half-time. I have never put it under chairs or benches, I have always been open and transparent about it. I also think this is important, just for the reason you mention: it is important that people can tell from their personal story what impact something has on their income and what they have to pay. For this we have made the simulation tool Tax-Calc available in advance. We didn't wait for the opening of Tax-on-web, we made this available in advance, so that people from their own personal story could determine what impact that measure had on them. For those who are really having a hard time and cannot pay the tax at once, there are payment plans, which can easily be requested from the FPS Finance Office. A payoff plan allows the costs to be spread over time and gives the taxpayer some breathing space to pay that extra amount. Just so we're clear, there's not a cent of extra tax. After all, last year we wanted to make sure that people who had a hard time had some extra purchasing power. During this particularly difficult period, they were given a little support so that they could get through the crisis. Behind that choice, to support our families and our companies in the crisis, I am still standing. We made the right decision at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u43	Mr. Secretary, what a nice explanation. You present yourself here as a merciful Samaritan. These are people who had 30 to 40% less income last year, but you act as if they were large assets. Actually, you don't know about these people's assets. I'll take you to the street with PVDA, so you can explain it to those people. You're a stranger to the world. Come out of your ivory tower and explain to those people what's going on. You are also saying that people can enter into a payment plan. Shame on you! Next year, these people will get another tax bill that they fall back on. Do they have to pay their taxes again next year? You should do a little more work on a real load on great abilities rather than taxing the working class! Then you will have my respect again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u44	Minister, I promise that my volume will be slightly lower than that of the previous speaker. Good communication was and is one of the government's stick-horses. Yesterday, the government announced a very relaxing path in the context of this unambiguous communication, but it soon became apparent that there was no direct consensus. From a good source, we were told that you, the man of the realm of freedom, questioned the speed with which the relaxations would be carried out. There's sand in the swimsuit, you said yourself. Do you support the announced relaxations yourself? How much sand is in your swimsuit? The sea sand, while we are discussing it, whether or not in your swimsuit, brings me to the corona passport. On 9 May, if I am not mistaken, you said that this passport must be issued, but there is no real consensus among the government parties on this either. On the French-speaking side, for example, MR-President Bouchez stated that he was downright opposed to this and also CD&V showed itself in that direction through Wouter Beke. So much for the famous communication from one mouth. Since there seems to be no real consensus in the government on the famous corona passport, it might be a good idea, as in France, for Parliament to do its job. Will you therefore stand up in the government to allow Parliament to vote on the introduction of the corona passport or does the government fear the voice of democracy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u45	Madam President, I am learning, because I did not know the expression'sand in the bathing suit'. I've never used that cute expression before. All madness on a stick, we absolutely want to return to normal life together and so we look forward to more freedom in and after the summer. We would like young people in particular to be able to have fun at festivals without much concern. This is only possible if, in our health care, in hospitals too, the worries and stress that are being experienced there are clearly reduced. One will not go without the other. The balance between the careful and step-by-step return to normal life and ensuring that our hospitals can function normally again indeed brings with them a lot of discussions. I am indeed the ally of those who want to guarantee good health care and I will not abandon health care in this. That's what a lot of the discussion is about. As for your question about the corona passport, let me be clear. The European Union is working on a regulation, the Digital Green Certificate, which will contain two or three important data, namely whether one has been vaccinated, whether a negative corona test has been performed and, if necessary, whether one has recently been ill and therefore immune. This certificate will undoubtedly be necessary for passenger traffic. We're working on it. That is a good development and any application of that certificate requires Belgian legislation. So don't worry, there will be legislation. We cannot apply that certificate in any way without Belgian legislation. For example, if a European from another European country wants to visit Tomorrowland, if that can happen, we will ask to show that Digital Green Certificate. We will have to make Belgian legislation for this alone. As far as the Belgians are concerned, we will also work with a corona passport, according to the same principle. A corona passport is an instrument that shows whether one has been vaccinated or tested negatively very recently. If one can show that, one will get access to mass events, big festivals like Pukkelpop and Tomorrowland, if they can take place, or other big events. Without such a corona passport, we will not regain our freedom if we organise such festivals. That's impossible. In politics, it is sometimes necessary, you have pointed out, to use another word for the same thing. We are talking about a Covid Safe Ticket, but that is actually based on the same principle as the European Digital Green Certificate or more generally, a corona passport. I'm not really interested in terminology. That doesn't excite me very much, to be honest. Either way, it's about the same thing. We will indeed develop such an instrument. There will be legislation in this area. Without that instrument, it is not possible to regain our freedom. The agreement in the government is that such a Belgian instrument should be used no later than the end of September for the time being. It is not intended to introduce this permanently, we do not want that, let alone that the idea would be that we would like to use such a thing for a visit to cafes and restaurants, that is not the point, but a corona passport will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u46	Minister, I am not surprised at your answer. You create some confusion of understanding or you dedicate it to the various coalition partners. You are talking about a corona passport or a green certificate. Ecolo's colleagues might like to hear that. I also heard the Prime Minister mention a corona ticket. However, this does not give much clarity. The question is whether I should have expected anything else from a minister with very few votes. In France, Parliament really had the opportunity to express its opinion on the corona passport. I have the impression that the government is afraid of this: Parliament's vote, because it would show that the government parties may not agree on the corona passport. Parliament's voice is feared, because it would appear that the government is moving towards a kind of bickering cabinet, where the sand in the swimming trunks you say you do not know that expression, but you yourself, according to the newspapers, have been replaced by broken glass. Minister, I hope that I can trust you and call on you and the government to really get Parliament to vote on the introduction of a corona passport, not only because I am very curious about the electoral behaviour of the government parties, but also because it shows you respect for democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u47	Madam Chair, Minister, today is May 12. It is International Day of Nurses, except that today the heart is really not at the party. This is at least what the 100 nursing heads who sent you this morning a white card regretting the lack of action on them since you took office. Today, it is a real cry of anger that they send you and a call for help, for themselves but also for their patients. Today, nurses are literally on their knees. They were before the crisis. They are even more so today. They are tired of their working conditions, of administrative tasks, of the psychological and physical burden of work at night and on weekends, of the sacrifices they must make to the detriment of their private and family life, but also of the lack of recognition and consultation of the authorities. Nurses have been submitting constructive solutions to the authorities for years to finally improve their profession and respond to the lack of arms in our hospitals, clinics and home care. These solutions have so far never been heard, thus increasing the shortage of nurses on the ground every day. It is a denial that today pushes the Belgian autonomous union of practitioners of nursing, Union4U, to ask you to no longer see health as a variable of budget economy but really as an investment for our well-being to all. Minister, how are you going to realign the nursing profession with short-, medium- and long-term measures for the duration of their careers? With what means and with what consultation with the sector? Are you finally going to recognize the persistence of this profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u48	"Mr Vandenbroucke, we are revolted and tired of not being heard. We won't let it happen again!" This is the cry of the nurses today, both in this open letter addressed to you by the chief nurses of many hospitals, but also by a call from the National Federation of Nurses of Belgium. Lack of listening on your part, lack of recognition of the profession, overload of work already present before the pandemic. This is what they say: "We ask you about the need for urgent intervention on your part in order to support our fragile teams." This is a real warning that the nurses send you on the 21st of May. Expectations are major and legitimate: strengthening the attractiveness of the profession throughout the career, increasing the standards of supervision, recognition of specializations and valorisation of them, recognition of the tenuousness of the professions a thousand times promised and never realized, real consultation with nurses and caregivers. Minister, this call is clear. Are you or are you not going to finally make these works that are indispensable and long-awaited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u49	I think it's important to understand that the nurses are at a standstill. They've been at the front for sixteen months. That is why I am fighting in a concertation committee to set ambitious targets for improving the situation in hospitals as well. Do we take measures? Of course! There is the €400 million White Blouse Fund to improve funding for health care in hospitals and to improve supervision. It is known that the priority for the year 2021 is to fund the recruitment of a full-time equivalent per unit of care. This will also help to break the normative framework of the Chief Nurses, which is an important demand in today's actions. Secondly, there is the funding of the social agreement to the tune of EUR 600 million, which will enable wages to be raised and working conditions to improve. Wage increases will be effective from July onwards. This will mean an average increase of 6% in the purchasing power of carers. These are important measures. There is something tangible when you mention a billion euros. Is that enough? This is already very important, but we must continue to work on the attractiveness of the trade, which is why we are going to set up a working group on this aspect. There are a lot of other issues that are raised by professional organisations and we are working on them. A billion euros is still a little bit of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u50	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers, even though I have finally learned absolutely nothing since you just repeated the measures you announced, including the sustainability of the White Blouse Fund that we adopted no later than last week. However, alongside this, there is no promise as regards consultation with the sector. This is fundamental, especially when one of your first actions has been to have Parliament pass a law, on a daily basis, delegating nursing acts to unqualified personnel. We also saw today that your Prime Minister refused to meet, even for a minute, the area. Frankly, Minister, I am tired of having to question you about the urgency and seriousness of the situation. Today I dare not imagine the despair in which these nurses and nurses find themselves. We have seen this with the crisis, freeing up places in hospitals and services is not all. Nurses are also required at the patient bedside to oversee these services. You didn't answer on the solution tracks. I'm really calling you to investigate them. There is no doubt that there is now a political will to do so. Mr Minister, let us act now because failing that, it is the health of all our fellow citizens that will be affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u51	Minister, you know, nurses are well aware of the White Blouse Fund and the non-market agreement. I don't have time here to talk to you about IFIC's problems, but I can assure you that on the ground, they also see them a lot. The question is whether these measures will reduce the current high level of absenteeism – especially for burn-out – and the 3% of resignations in hospitals, and compensate for the 6,000 to 10,000 vacancies, even though nursing schools are experiencing a sharp reduction in applicants. Listening to you, we feel like "everything's fine, Madame Marquise." Yet the reality of the ground is quite different. I can only encourage you on their behalf to set up not only a working group, but also a very clear schedule of meetings, with the aim of achieving results quickly. A moment ago, you told Villa Politica that, in the background, you were the only one who hit hard on the table for the healthcare staff. So I'm giving you this appointment, minister, because it's been a lot of moons that we're hitting on the table for the health care staff. Beyond words, we are waiting – they are waiting – for actions!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u52	Mr Minister, I have another question on the same subject, the coronavirus. Minister, there is a wind of freedom for this summer, after yesterday's Codeco decisions, and it is obviously so much better for the citizens who were looking forward to this moment! For this restored freedom to be a full success, it is crucial to be able to anticipate and strengthen the lines of defence in the face of new threats. Among these is the case of variants and especially, the Indian variant, worrying. WHO has recently classified this variant B1.617 as a global concern. The catastrophic situation in India is known, but its pace of development in Belgium, Europe, the United Kingdom and the United States is in question. Indeed, this variant circulates much faster now than the British variant. There are also doubts as to the efficacy of certain types of vaccines in relation to this virus. The development of this variant is therefore clearly not controlled, including in Belgium, on the basis of all the sequencing figures available to me. My message is therefore to tell you that we must not wait and that we must immediately strengthen the defence lines in order to anticipate and control these variants and make deconfinity a complete success. Are you going to strengthen detection and traceability far too weak today to track variants in every corner? Will you check and, above all, enforce quarantines for travellers returning from these countries, where the variants circulate very widely? Will you plead for a European strategy of reinforcement at the level of the entry of variants into the European Union? Should vaccination be adapted, since messenger RNAs appear to be much more effective vaccines against these variants? Shouldn't we vaccinate Belgians in India instead of bringing them back to Belgium with the risk of importing the virus? I will make the same comment, of course, for the other countries. Is it reasonable to bring thousands of festivalgoers from around the world to Tomorrowland? So many questions I'd like to ask you. The aim is to make deconfinity a success and therefore to strictly control contamination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u53	Mrs Fonck, thank you for these important and relevant questions, but quite numerous. Yesterday, it happened that the Concertation Committee (Codeco) approved a text that the Commissioner covid and I had proposed on measures to be taken against worrying variants. The idea is based on the need for a continuous vigilance mechanism. We will therefore first ask the Risk Assessment Group to identify criteria for identifying countries in which worrying variants are present and to update the list of States so identified once a week and then forward it to the competent authorities. In this way, we can simply prohibit persons who have been in the territories concerned during the last forty days from travelling directly or not to ours, provided that they do not have Belgian nationality or do not have their principal residence in Belgium – with a few exceptions, which we have severely limited. So I'm not going to give you all the details. In summary, the principle is to establish a permanent vigilance mechanism, providing for a constant renewal of the list of countries in which worrying variants are found, as well as a much stricter ban on movement from those States to ours. You mentioned other aspects such as quarantine and contact tracing. In this respect, it also seems to me essential to ask the Regions and Communities – which are the main players in this field – to strengthen their arrangements and to try to fill all the gaps in this field. I mean, you mentioned Tomorrowland. In this case, the idea is clear: we will not accept visitors outside the European Union. If the opportunity is offered to non-Belgians, they will be Europeans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u54	Minister, you're talking about measures outside our borders in relation to entry, okay! There are still existential questions within our borders to track down. I hope you've seen the sequencing figures? I saw the numbers of the day. The speed of development of the Indian variant within our borders must challenge us all. Okay for the decision on the extra-Europeans for the Tomorrowland event. I think that would be a risk measure. You have not answered me about the question of vaccination of Belgians who are staying in these countries at risk, where the variants of the virus circulate a great deal. Above all, let us vaccinate them there even if we work at European level, but let us avoid bringing them back, especially because of the risks associated with the importation of these variants! I would like to tell you how much it seems to me that with stricter, more targeted and therefore more effective measures, we will be able to control the situation. To the enthusiasm of the summer must succeed that of the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, you have instructed the Planning Bureau to calculate how much revenue would come if the second pension pillar were taxed under the general tax system. The conclusion of your cabinet was that the supplementary pension costs EUR 2.82 billion to the State Treasury. In the meantime, it is becoming a habit of this purple-green government: every month a new tax is introduced. Who's the biggest victim again? Those are the hardworking Flemings who have worked hard all their lives and saved years for an extra pension. Why are they saving for that extra pension? They do this because they know that with a socialist minister of pensions they should not count on a decent statutory pension after more than 40 years of work. They don't trust you, as studies show. They're right. After all, if money has to be sought to make the low statutory pension affordable, then you look at them, more specifically at their savings. That is absolutely outrageous. You need to raise money by increasing the level of activity, especially in Brussels and Wallonia, and by tackling the periods treated within pensions, not by burdening the people who maintain our social security even more. Enough is enough. The Flemish taxpayer is absolutely not a milk cow. What do we see of the liberals here in the hemisphere and in the government? They stood there and looked at it, like a cow at a tax train passing by. Madam Secretary, I have a number of questions for you. Why did you not also instruct the Planning Bureau to calculate the impact of the generalisation of that second pension pillar, a positive impact on the purchasing power of pensioners? What do you mean when you say that the second pension pillar should be more social and just? Does that mean higher burdens, or rather a generalisation of that second pillar, without increasing the burden? Finally, what exactly do you mean by not touching acquired rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u56	Mr Van der Donkt, I stepped into politics because I saw things that could not be done in our society. This is a philosophy I continue as a minister. We are working hard to achieve a balanced pension reform. That was so agreed in the coalition agreement. This will have an impact on many people and should therefore be good. That's why I ordered this research from the Federal Planning Office to get a look at the exact figures on the cost of the second pension pillar. It's the first time we've had such numbers. This insight complements previous studies. The aim is to achieve a generalised, more accessible and fair second pillar. Any reform of this size must be based on sound figures and insights. This makes it possible to discuss this with the social partners and the majority parties in the government in a serene manner. This can help us to continue the work in order to achieve a good and balanced result. This study teaches us that there are injustices in it. We are not against the second pillar, but we are in favour of it. We will not touch the acquired rights, and you know that. For me, the fight against inequalities and injustices is of prime importance. You know me, don't you, Mr. Van der Donkt? It is my mission to provide certainty to everyone, including the people you mentioned, and to ensure that they have a view of a dignified old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u57	Madam Secretary, I know your cabinet is working hard, but that hard work is not always good. You give wrong signals and you always go looking for possible sources of income. I would like to give you a good advice: put off your red glasses in the planned pension reforms and focus on keeping the first pillar, minimum pensions and IGAs affordable by increasing the level of activity, as I said before, and addressing the periods treated as such. In addition, generalize the second pillar of pensions rather than dismissing him as a cost to our society; what he is not, on the contrary. Finally, don't forget to finally start the social and academic consultation instead of having your union cabinet set up the lines. Not only pay for work, but also retirement to work: that must be the motto of your policy. If you follow that advice, the present and future pensioners will be eternally grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u58	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u59	At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following motion for a resolution to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: - motion for a resolution (Mr André Flahaut, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr M. Malik Ben Achour, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix and Hervé Rigot) to make the VOCID-19 vaccine a global public good, No. 1815/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: - motion for a resolution (Mr André Flahaut, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr Malik Ben Accour, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix and Hervé Rigot) requesting that the COVID-19 vaccine be made available to a global public, No. 1815/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on External Relations. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on External Relations. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u60	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 25 March 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 2 April 2021 for the term of a French-speaking alternate member for the category ′′external members′′′ of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 25 March 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of French-speaking, alternate member for the category ′′external members′′ of the Notarial Appointment Committees was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 2 April 2021. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Ms Catherine Halluent, lawyer at the Walloon Brabant Bar. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Ms Catherine Halluent, lawyer at the Walloon-Brabant desk. Following the introduction of this candidacy, there are sufficient candidates for the various mandates. In view of this candidacy, there are sufficient applications for the various mandates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2021, I propose that you forward all the candidatures to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2021, I propose that all candidates be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u61	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 November 2020, the procedure for appointing a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights can only be continued after receiving the results of the German language test. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 November 2020, the results of the candidates for the German language test had to be awaited before continuing the procedure for the appointment of an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Since the member who resigned was the only effective member with a knowledge of German, the new member must therefore have that knowledge. Since the member who resigned was the only effective member with knowledge of German, the new member must therefore have that knowledge of the language. By e-mail dated February 11, 2021, Mr. David Baele announced that he was withdrawing his application. By e-mail of 11 February 2021, Mr David Baele announced that he would withdraw his candidacy. The following applications can therefore be considered: The following applications can therefore be considered: Judicial world: Mr Björn Bullynck, President of the Appeals Court of Antwerp. Court of Justice: Mr Björn Bullynck, President of the Chamber at the Court of Appeal in Antwerp. Civil society: - Mr. Frank Judo, President of the Association of Flemish Jurists - Mrs. Sarah Scheepers, coordinator of Asbl Ella. Civil society: - Mr Frank Judo, President of the Flemish Lawyers Association - Mrs. Sarah Scheepers, coordinator of VZW Ella. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2021, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups and that the candidates be heard in the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2021, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups and to hear the candidates in the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u62	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the draft programme law, No 1974/1. The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 1974/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u63	Madam Chair, I will thank my group leader. This is indeed the programme law with a series of urgent measures that must be taken in view of the crisis and other budgetary adjustment measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u64	Madam President, I am surprised because the programme law is linked to budgetary adjustment. I have the impression that the government has been making budgetary adjustments and establishing program laws since 1830. I therefore do not understand the sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u65	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u66	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u67	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 3 May 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 3 May 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 122/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Albert Vicar. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 122/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Albert Vicaire. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u68	Madam President, on 24 April 2021, the Constitutional Court destroyed the law on the recording of telephone data, the so-called data retention law that obliges telecom companies to keep data from their customers preventively. In doing so, the Constitutional Court confirmed an earlier ruling by the European Court of Justice, which concluded last year that the data retention law does not guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. However, the data kept are an important tool in the fight against crime and the detection of missing persons. There is something to be said for keeping this data. However, the protection of citizens' privacy is also a very important issue. Fighting crime must not be a free-trade policy to ignore the right to privacy of innocent citizens. There must be a balance between the tools available for judicial investigation and the protection of privacy. It is not possible for everyone, without distinction, to be regarded as a suspect at all times and everywhere and to be permanently monitored. Colleagues, it almost seems to be a custom of the various successive governments of this country to enact laws and decisions contrary to the Constitution and its principles. The Constitution is not a piece of paper that can be ignored or pushed aside. With our motion, Vlaams Belang asks the government to urgently develop a new legal framework that meets the needs of the judicial authorities in the fight against crime and also takes into account the protection of the privacy of innocent citizens, as laid down in the Constitution. Such a framework could at last pass the test of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice. We therefore ask that we vote against the simple motion and in favour of the motion tabled by Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u69	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u70	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u71	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 5 May 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 5 May 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 120/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 120/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gilissen just pointed out that the European Court of Justice made firewood of Belgian data retention legislation on 6 October 2020. As expected, the Constitutional Court has destroyed the Belgian law on this matter. Mr Gilissen was right to call attention to the right to privacy. You have just voted all of this out of hand. You didn't follow up on that. However, I have good news, you will be given a second chance immediately. Maybe I can't convince you, but your own Justice Minister can. He made a promise in this matter. Not only privacy is important, but also the consequences for the judicial investigation cannot be seen. Mrs Bury spoke to the Minister of Justice about this in October. It pointed out at that time that waiting for the now proven negligence in the matter was not a very good option. In ongoing investigations using that data retention law, the Constitutional Court leaves the choice to the judge to determine whether the use of that data was permitted. Mrs Bury also referred to this legal uncertainty at an early stage. What about these new investigations? The investigators are in the hair with their hands in them. They really need that data for their investigations. In an attempt to convince you, I will quote Mr Van Quickenborne's answer to Mrs Bury. At first he said he would not wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling. That is a promise which he is no longer able to keep, but the follow-up to his promise is, I quote: 'Our services are busy studying the Court's ruling and its consequences. It would be premature to give a ruling on the way in which legislation should be adapted and within what time limit. I can already say that it will not be easy to find a solution that meets the Court's view, while remaining a useful and efficient instrument in the fight against crime. I met Mr Van Linthout on this subject and discussed the matter in detail with him. It goes without saying that, as Minister of Justice, I must respect judgments of our higher courts. I want to give the security services the tools to fight crime with results. In that sense, of course, I have an ear for the desires of the investigators." Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting until today for a concrete proposal. That's still not on the table. It has remained with announcement policy. However, time is running out, hence our motion. I suggest that you support this so that the Minister of Justice can deliver on his promise last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u73	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u74	Yes 88 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u75	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 5 May 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 5 May 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 121/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leslie Leoni. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 121/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u76	Colleagues, the importance of card payments in shops has only increased with the covide epidemic, as payment cards have been called for as much as possible. Some Members in Parliament even want to make it compulsory to pay with bank cards. Traders are of good will, but often consider transaction costs as a brake factor. The NSZ indicates that this is clearly a problem of perception, because traders often do not know the real costs of such transactions. Among other things, the NSZ calls for a kind of comparison tool to be developed. From the Minister's reply I received in committee last week, I could only conclude that the government is not prepared to provide a solution to the problem. That is why our motion specifically calls on the government to remove the thresholds for traders to extend the possibility of card payments on a voluntary basis. In particular, we ask that, in cooperation with the FPS Economy, an independent comparison tool be developed for transaction costs in card payments, following the example of what exists today in the telecommunications and energy sectors. For example, traders can easily discover the supply on the market and choose the cheapest solution that suits their specific needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u77	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u78	Yes 91 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u79	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 5 May 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 5 May 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 119/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Steven Mathei. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 119/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Steven Matheï. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to greening the company car park, Minister Van Peteghem speaks highly in the press and in the booklets, but when it comes to answering questions in Parliament, it remains deafeningly silent. There will be no answers, because the Minister says that everything needs to be discussed within the government. Therefore, I have not received a detailed answer to my detailed question. So that actually means that this government has again made announcement policy. This policy of announcement does have certain consequences, because we see that business is on its back feet today. Such announcements also affect the behavior. We are very concerned about this situation and for that reason we have tabled this motion. We ask the government to make a very concrete move towards a less aggressive reduction in tax deductibility for commercial cars with an internal combustion engine, so that it remains feasible and affordable for everyone. We ask that the tax deduction for electric cars should continue to be guaranteed at 100%, as we know from the press that even that may happen. We ask that this government present an open and transparent plan to demonstrate how the lost tax revenue from fuels will be compensated and who will pay that bill. We also call for caution in the communication of policies, as communication also affects the second-hand value of vehicles with an internal combustion engine. If the current communication is maintained, that value will decrease. We are also asking for a proper system of proof of expenses relating to the charging of electric vehicles at the employee or manager's home. Finally, we would also like to see some undesirable side effects of these measures examined, including the extension of the life of existing commercial vehicles after full depreciation, which could have a reverse effect. The purchase of a car with a private name combustion engine ensures that there are no more value advantages or social contributions. I can go on like this for a while. In short, Madam President, we call on colleagues to support our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u81	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u82	Yes 90 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u83	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u84	Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1902/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1902/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u85	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Greet Daems on request 4. (1650/6) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Greet Daems on request 4. (1650/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u86	Yes [[15]] Yes No. 125 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u88	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1650/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1650/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u90	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (780/12) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (780/12) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u92	Yes 135 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1941/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1941/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u93	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (1075/10) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (1075/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u94	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 108 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u96	Yes 98 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1075/11) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1075/11) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-plenair-ip104x.u97	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 May 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 20, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
