ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u1	Welcome to this session dedicated to the topical debate on a fugitive military. I have received two requests for a decision on how we will proceed in the context of hearings and so on. I suggest we look at that after the debate with the Minister. Then this committee can decide how we will organise our work further. Mr Francken, Mr De Vuyst, at the end of this topical debate, I shall return to the requests as you have put them. It is also useful to determine at the beginning of the meeting how the course of events will be dealt with. We are limited in time for technical reasons, we cannot go on far in the afternoon. The services have informed us that at 1.15 p.m. we must definitely stop our work, or at least interrupt it. So I think a little meeting discipline would be appropriate. Everyone must have enough space to be able to ask the questions that need to be asked. The Minister must, of course, also be given the opportunity to give answers. A proposal would be simply to keep the order and give each questioner two minutes. Another possibility is for each group to have a speaking time, as in ordinary debates. Then we offer the other questioners the opportunity to intervene briefly. I would suggest the second option. Since there are a lot of questions to ask, I propose that each group should have five minutes' speaking time. I would ask that the various questions be dealt with during that time. I will be very careful to ensure that that speaking time is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u2	You could also use a combination of the two options and keep the order of questions put but ask each group to stick to those five minutes. That's a little more honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u3	Then we'll have to jump far. There are groups with more than one questioner. Then you happen to be the first speaker to speak. Your request was not personal, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u4	Madam Minister, after last week's debate in plenary and all the press releases, there are still many questions. Before I go on to my questions, I would first like to tell you what has been going on with me and my group over the last few days, especially now that it appears that the information on the military in question has been available for quite some time. Although it is still very early to draw conclusions, one is already clear. I have the impression that we have not taken the problem of threatening extreme right in our defence in our country seriously enough. The urgency did not appear to have penetrated either with our security services or with the Defense Department itself, because the information was known. Nor is society itself aware of the urgency, I see. For me, the fact that 50,000 people like the terrorist suspect instead of reporting him to the police, shows that there is a lack of awareness of the man's potential danger. However, it concerns someone with extreme right-wing thoughts in our armed security services, services that we have given the monopoly to use violence. I wonder what kind of car makes a bomb. I have never read about Sharia4Belgium's terrorist suspects that they are family people, but the man we are talking about here would be supported. I am particularly concerned about this attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, all parties will be taking the floor here today. I think it would be a good thing for everyone to condemn this very clearly, because I do not think that anyone who likes such groups will be impressed by my words. I also ask other parties, such as the Flemish Interest, to send a clear message that we clearly condemn such behaviour, rather than asking for the Minister's resignation. That message is very important. If we do not do so, we will rather encourage such behaviour, and this polarisation can be missed. In order to prevent polarisation, clear and correct information is needed. In recent days, I have read a lot of messages that are not in line with the information I have already received, for example about the licence to kill. Madam Minister, that has been contradicted in the meantime, but it would be a good thing to clarify that here. Another common complaint is that we leave soldiers we send abroad to their fate. This is not in line with information given earlier in the committee. I have the impression that this information is not correct, but it would be a good idea to clarify this, so that that image is pierced. I think that many people in this case need clear and correct information, even though the DOD is trying to put things right through social media. So I would have liked more information about the succession of soldiers who have carried out a foreign mission. Come on, he'll continue to take responsibility. We have asked for our legislative proposal on the prohibition of extremist groups to be discussed as a matter of urgency. We believe that this will make it possible to intervene more quickly. Military members of groups seeking to undermine our society should, first and foremost, no longer be allowed access to weapons and combat training. If we have learned one thing from Muslim extremistism, it is that people who are members of such a group radicalize much faster. I think that's what's going on here. Mr Conings was a member of one of the objectionable groups calling for hatred. I also read that some experts write that extreme right-wing groups are trying to infiltrate our security services. Let us ban these extremist groups, whatever their form, and deny their members access to weapons and combat training. Madam Secretary, how do you think we should proceed with our security services in order to prevent such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u5	Mr President, if I may, I shall speak for two thirty minutes, so that my colleague Wouter De Vriendt will have the same time. Minister, this is an extremely serious matter and, while the whole country is on alert, support groups of several tens of thousands of people and demonstrations that support this person and his ideology are flourishing on social networks. This is where we are today! Of course we have something to be indignant about, but this indignation cannot remain passive. The fight against the extreme right and any ideology of hatred must, more than ever, be carried out actively by all democrats, including at the heart of our institutions, at the risk, if we do not, of seeing our democracy definitively sink. In parallel with this long-term struggle, we must also shed full light on the specific events that have been taking place over the past week. There are really many questions. I am trying to bring them together as much as possible, even if I think we will have the opportunity to come back to this issue at some length in the coming days and weeks in our committee with you and perhaps other interested parties. Madam Minister, a month ago, I asked you about the presence of the far right in the Defence. Your answer was quite reassuring. You were somehow relativizing the threat, but the facts show that the situation was in fact not completely under control. Minister, what has been done to combat radicalized people in Defence since your arrival and especially since my last intervention? Thirty military personnel were currently registered. Did you ask for a list of these people when you arrived? This weekend, security clearances and access to weapons were withdrawn from eleven of them. What about the other eighteen? How can we ensure that they are neutralized before taking action, if they intend to do so? I also discover, this morning in the press – one can regret the break of the closed doors – that, among them, there are MPs assigned to the supervision of the Federal and Walloon Parliaments. It's pretty amazing. How is this possible? During what period did this happen? Is that still the case today? With respect to the more specific case of Conings, yesterday, the Defence and you acknowledged the errors of the SGRS and the Defence. It seems that Jürgen Conings had been under radar for six years, so long before you arrived. He had seen his security clearance withdrawn since last year. How is it possible that he could have had access to weapons? What was the procedure for accessing these weapons? Finally, I would like to look at the many soldiers who openly show their support for Jürgen Conings on social networks. It is obviously unacceptable and a slap again for all members of the Defence and the vast majority of the staff to see some members defile the Institution and glorify a radicalized person on the far right. It is no more, nor less, of the apology of terrorism and I am pleased to read that Facebook has closed the groups concerned. I hope, however, that we have a list of the military members who were members for the sake of security. Minister, what is your reaction to these likes? Are there any sanctions and complaints against these soldiers? If so, which ones? Are these soldiers being followed now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u6	Madam Minister, we must be clear about this: it is a serious crisis in the defence sector and a dangerous situation for society. In this serious crisis within the Defense Department, you did the necessary thing immediately: you announced an investigation, you acted, you announced measures, and there have already been sanctions against a number of military personnel on the ADIV list for their extremist profile. Based on what we know so far, everything points to structural problems within the Defense Department, which can be summarized under two headings. Firstly, there is a clear problem with the flow of information, who is ended and to what level does this important information flow through? Secondly, there is a problem with the control of the people who have access to the weapons warehouses. There are still many questions about this and we are looking at you today to get the necessary answers. I'll take those two points a little further. We read that the Chief of the ADIV was not aware of the signal within ADIV of the military who is now a fugitive. That is a problem, but my question is whether his direct commander, his army unit, was aware of the ADIV signal so that sanctions could be imposed on that radicalised military and at least he could be denied access to the weapons depots. In this context, I would also like to know whether it is an option for you to extend, for example, the current system of security clearances to an authorisation to access certain critical functions and positions in the military, such as arms depots. You could go to a system where military personnel who have access to weapons depots need a security clearance. Then today we would not be faced with the current problems and someone who has been cut off would not have easy access to the weapons depots. I would also like to ask you a question (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u7	Thank you very much, Mr De Vriendt. Your group's time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u8	Mr President, it is only two sentences. Madam Secretary, the extreme right is clearly a problem within the Defense Department. It's our estimate that it's been played down too much in the past. What's your approach to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u9	Madam Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question you in plenary last Thursday, but this debate is far from over. This crisis is deep and the shortcomings we have found in the radicalisation of personnel and the flaws in security clearances are evidence of a serious problem in the transmission of information within Defence. It is necessary to make clarity and it is mandatory for us, who are responsible for the Nation, to be able to propose solutions. Minister, we will be with you to do this work. In the Committee on 20 April, you said, in response to a question from the Socialist and Green colleagues on the possible radicalisation of 30 people, that the investigation had not yet been completed. I read in the press that it was now done and that sanctions were going to be taken. How do we operate these progressive radicalization screenings? That is what this is all about, also in the case of Mr Conings. It is essential that we can tackle the facts of radicalization during our career. There is also a need for full clarity on security clearances. Minister, how is it possible to leave with four rocket launchers without it erupting or alarming anyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u10	Minister, what is the situation on the ground today? What about the threats? I assume you have contacts with your colleague from the Interior and the Crisis Centre. What threats are we exposed to today in Belgium in view of the cavalry of this gentleman who, if I believe the press, would have been classified on 17 February at level 3 of the threat on the OCAM list? We can even read in the press that on 1 February this gentleman was obviously planning attacks on a mosque. Did you have access to this information when you replied here on 20 April to Mr Defosse, who had asked you about the problem of radicalism at the defence level? You will contradict me, but from my point of view, the ministers who are members of the National Security Council have access to the OCAM cards, when they are adapted. I would like you to tell us very precisely if you were informed that Jürgen Conings was listed level 3 on the OCAM list on 17 February and that no decision had been taken. I also agree with what has been said about radicalism. Of course we will have to work on it; all radicalisms! Let them be from the far left, from the far right, from Islamism, from the defence in general or from the civil service! But honestly, given the result of the current malfunction, we will probably have to echo Mr Dallemagne's proposal for follow-up on recommendations, which we have made at the level of the Attentats Committee. Did we not learn anything about the attacks of 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u11	Madam Secretary, I would like to make a clear condemnation of the use and threat of violence. Violence is never a solution, not even for any frustrations and sighs of civilians, and certainly not military. Let's get that straight. It only casts a negative shadow on all our military and security forces, who have given the best of themselves in the last few days in particularly difficult circumstances. That is why, on behalf of my group, I express all support and respect to our military and security staff, because we need them today more than ever. Madam Minister, I have a lot of reservations and questions about this dossier. A first thought that arises from what has happened in recent days, a thought that perhaps everyone made when the Jürgen Conings case came into the media, is how this is possible in the name of God. I am referring, of course, to the lack of security procedures at the Department of Defense. How is it possible that someone on the OCAD list was followed by the military intelligence agency ADIV and threatens to be a problem for our security, could be in possession of heavy military weapons? How is it possible that neither you nor the CHOD knew anything about the only military on that list? I have great difficulty believing this, Madam Secretary. Today, De Tijd reports that this list of names is part of the evaluations that regularly make the OCAD of the terrorist threat. That list is contained in it and is delivered to all ministers in the National Security Council, including the Minister of Defence. So allow me to ask some serious questions. The whole incident thus bears witness, in the first place, to a completely reprehensible security culture in the Defense Department. Of course, this is caused by the structural under-financing of this department, by political parties such as yours, Madam Secretary. Secondly, it bears witness to an enormous political responsibility on your part. You're Secretary of Defense. You have final responsibility for military security and compliance with procedures. Can you explain these security procedures, which seem to be limp, here and give them to us? Very pertinent with regard to our military, is the guidance of the defense personnel who are facing PTSD, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. After all, reports have come to light that Jürgen Conings would suffer from this syndrome. According to a testimony, he also brought that up with the Defense Department, but was never followed up on it. Can you explain that policy here? Can you explain why you have considered that sufficient in the past? Where would you like to adjust this if necessary? Madam Secretary, then there's your response to the whole thing. Instead of drawing your political conclusions and assuming your responsibilities, you seem to be using this whole issue to implement a underlying political agenda. I would ask you to stop doing that, and I would also like to warn you. At the moment, our soldiers absolutely do not need what you say in the media. You have responded with the prompt denial of access to weapons, sensitive locations and information for the 11 military followed by the ADIV and you are going to be particularly selective in the screening and sanctioning of the so-called extremist threat to Defense, especially in your communication. That may well be said. Why is it that in your communication there is only talk of banning right-wing extremistism and not Islam fundamentalism and extreme left-wing fundamentalism? Why not investigate all forms of extremism instead of selectively calling your favourite right-wing and Flemish scapegoat to account? Stop this cheap political recovery and look into your own bosom. Madam Secretary, in view of all this, I have the following questions. What sanctions were involved in the military in question? What directives have they broken? Is it about statements, memberships or association with people in the past and in the present? Could you give us a more specific explanation? Last week, you announced that you would apply that screening to recruits. Could you give us a little more concrete explanation of that plan? How is this screening going to happen? What personnel will perform that screening? After all, we know the state of the defence workforce. What criteria will you use? How will this be communicated to the new recruits? You have made all the announcements in connection with the cessation of the open source intelligence system that should enable our security services to detect signs of radicalisation. You canceled that contract, and now we see what that's gotten us. Guilty omission, I can't put it any other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u12	The five minutes will be used by Mr Francken for the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I quote you, where we left the thread last week: 'I have inherited chaos, chaos from which you are at the root by disinvesting in this department, by closing our eyes and accepting the unacceptable, by awakening populism and hatred for many years'. Your words, last week, to our, as we know, kind President, Mr Buysrogge, who questioned you in plenary last week. Those are very heavy words, which made me shocked and struck. I found it shocking to throw oil on the fire and to accuse us of being hatedoers at a very difficult time for this country, for your department, for every military and undoubtedly for yourself. The man's still unsavory, he's state-dangerous, and there's been some serious blunders. I find it a strange way to deal with Parliament, to take such a heavy toll on the N-VA, the country's largest party, and to throw us into one pile with all possible, far-right, hate-songists who do exist, but who do not belong to us. I would like to make four points. First of all, what exactly did your cabinet know? In Het Belang van Limburg you say: "I first heard his name this week. That can't be!" You say that and you keep it up. Last week it was our fault, yesterday it was the DOD's fault. It's still not your fault, it's always someone else's fault. I think that's odd. We'll see what comes out of it. I find it strange that this never got to you. The OCAD list is shared with ADIV, with the seven support services. OCAD also supervises this. You're in the National Security Council. In De Tijd, I read that you will be given an insight into this and supervise it, so you will be sent the list. Why is there no structural consultation between you or your head of your cabinet and the boss of ADIV, General Boucké? Is that what's going on? Why doesn't it seem to be there? I cannot imagine that he would never have reported it if there was a structural consultation. During the period of the attacks in this country we were at the wheel of the security departments and there was a weekly structural consultation. Apparently, that's not the case anymore. That's what worries me very much. Secondly, extremism. You'll find us hatedoers, and that's what worries me. I understand yesterday from Mr De Vriendt that he does not agree with that and I am very pleased with that, but not Mr De Vriendt is the Minister of Defence, that is you. What instructions did you or your head of the cabinet give to General Boucké regarding the extra screening of military personnel? How many security clearances have been withdrawn in the last ten days? How many security clearances did a warning come with? How many people were put on hold or denied access to weapons depots? You're talking about 11 people, but I think there are more of them. Allow me to read from the many reactions I received from the grounds a message from a military man. "It's really a witch hunt. People who have just liked the wrong page, are in a wrong Facebook group or have posted a right-wing comment may come on call one by one. Some of them are even being turned off. The presentation of an opinion that is not in line with the opinion of the mainstream is strongly not recommended. Thus, the army is gradually turning into a place where identity and opinion become taboo." Let's never go there, Madam Secretary. It must of course be monitored, but you should not exaggerate. I don't know if that story is in your right hands. I doubt it, but I want more clarity about it before I make my final judgment on it. In a third point, I would also like to express my absolute support for our soldiers from my position. These are very difficult moments. We absolutely need to implement Wales's commitment to spend 2% of gross domestic product on Defence, need additional budgets, additional investments for Defence. There's a structural problem, it's a general malaise. We can't look away from that. We must have that debate on the ground. This opportunity may be an opportunity. Every crisis has its opportunities. Let us seize this opportunity. Finally, with our group, we will put forward a proposal to work on decompression and on the mental well-being of the military, including for soldiers returning from an operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u14	Madam Minister, we are now a week ahead and a heavily armed professional military man who has made several threats is still unheard of. The situation is serious. We must also admit that we have often been saved by chance so far. In fact, chance has meant that a terrorist act has so far been avoided. When Jürgen Conings disappeared last Monday, he had enough weapons to commit a terrorist attack. In this context, I would like to refer to the recent past, namely the facts in Christchurch in New Zealand, or Anders Behring Breivik on the island of Utøya in Norway. It remains unacceptable for a man with such a profile and who was not even under the radar of the OCAD and the ADIV to have easy access to heavy weapons. If we make a synthesis of all the explanations that have been made, we see the causes for the situation we are now in, and that is first and foremost the laxity and indifference to the extreme right-wing philosophy in the army. In this context, you have recently withdrawn the authorisation and access to arms for 11 other military personnel. Even a member of Blood, Soil, Honor and Faith, by the way, an acquaintance of Jürgen Conings, worked in an arms store after he was convicted of stealing and trafficking weapons. At first instance, that person was also convicted for his membership of Blood, Soil, Honor and Faith. This morning we were told that two members of the military police responsible for the security of MPs in this Parliament were also on the intelligence service list. It is hallucinating that there is such a lax approach to information that is available and that there is no better screening or monitoring of the radicalisation of the individuals on those lists. Furthermore, there is a lack of flow of information from the OCAD and the ADIV to the military summit. The commander of Conings was aware of no evil, even after the disciplinary sanctions that Conings received for spreading hatred and death threats on the social media, which led to his transfer to the barracks in Leopoldsburg. In the meantime, everyone washes their hands in innocence, but the most important question we have to ask is how did you not know? Reference is made to the savings in the Defense Department. In a way, that's true. Many investments are being made. We think it's the wrong thing to do. I'm thinking of the expensive fighter planes we don't need. However, we see that the infrastructure is very bad. There is a lack of staff, and even the camera does not work with which one had to monitor a sensitive place like that ammunition depot. How is it possible, Madam Secretary, that control is being so lax? How is it possible that the information from the OCAD and the ADIV did not reach the barracks of Leopoldsburg? How come that information didn't even get to the head of intelligence? That's even more striking. Of course, the threat of right-wing extremism has been on the elevator for some time. It is truly alarming and alarming. I am also thinking of the support groups for Jürgen Conings on the social media. Madam Secretary, what will you do to effectively counter the extreme right-wing threat within Defense? At present, there is no basis in the current legislation to remove people who have links with extreme right-wing groups from Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u15	Madam Secretary, I hope, first and foremost, that this matter will be concluded quickly and safely. The investigation is ongoing, and then there will be room for conclusions. I think it is important to say that as an introduction. The facts that have become known in recent days are that the man was on the OCAD list. There was one soldier on that list. And it's going to take action, isn't it? One thing is positive, ladies and gentlemen, the detection system has worked well at that level. Of course, we are left with other questions. Then where did it go wrong? How can a man with such backgrounds and with such a file become the manager of the arms stock? How is that possible? Yesterday there were two important moments. First of all, there was your press conference, Madam Secretary, along with the CHOD. I thought that was a good idea. We have therefore received a number of answers to the questions we had asked in advance. I thought it was a good idea that you really gave the state of things there, shoulder to shoulder with the CHOD. Turns out you weren't aware that the OCAD had put the man on the list. The CHOD was not aware of this either. That's a first element. A second element is that unconfirmed clues, unfortunately based on leaks, indicate that the ADIV's top man was also apparently unaware of the situation. So the question is, who did know? Who was aware of the ADIV? How come the information didn't flow up, since the top man wasn't aware, but he wasn't down? Last week, I replicated the fact that the insufficient flow of information to the bottom should prompt us to think. Privacy is a very important asset. But is the privacy of persons being followed not subordinate to the public interest and should security officers, corps commanders and superiors have no knowledge of what exactly is going on with a particular staff member? In any case, it seems more and more that this is not a case of a military man carrying weapons of war and apparently very dangerous, but of major system errors. I am therefore very concerned that we should not only look at the case of Mr Conings, but that we should draw general conclusions and lessons for the future. Madam Secretary, I have asked a whole series of questions about the search and foreign partners. We need important answers and we need to identify important action points, firstly, on the follow-up of extremism in the defence sector. I consciously use the term extremism, because I think there is too much focus on racial extremism. All forms of extremism cannot be allowed. We must not make the mistake that may have been made in recent years, namely that we have looked too much at Muslim terrorism and that we have forgotten other forms of terrorism. Secondly, there is also the problem of the flow of information between the security services. For example, does a red lamp start to light at ADIV, when someone is placed on the OCAD list or isn't that the case? We must look at this problem without taboos and perhaps even examine better integration and cooperation between the different security services. Thirdly, who should know at ADIV what time? Fourthly, is there enough staff? After all, the lack of personnel in the Defense Department is well known. Fifthly, is there a statutory and legal framework for dealing with such cases? I'm afraid, frankly, of that. Here too, we must work with the National Defence Committee. Sixthly, Madam Minister, there is work to be done on arms management and security clearance on the ground. Apparently, a military man doesn't need security clearance to manage a weapons depot in Defense. Is it true that a military doesn't need security clearance to manage heavy weapons? On the other hand, in DOD, weapons are normal. We must therefore also ensure that we do not overshot and do not make it any more difficult for us and our military. Madam Minister, I would like to repeat what I said in plenary. We'll recruit 10,000 new recruits in the next few years, and we need to guide and screen them. We must therefore ensure that our procedures are on track to enable them to do their job. Finally, mental well-being is very important. I have heard that colleagues are announcing initiatives in this area, and I can tell you that our motion for a resolution on the substance of the matter is also about to be ready. I am sure that we will find a broad majority for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u16	Minister, this crisis is extremely serious. So it has been more than a week since an armed and nation-trained soldier was in the wild, with the clear intention of using violence to propagate his own hate ideas, despite the fact that the authorized intelligence services knew his profile and even reported it to the Defence. You had the honesty to acknowledge in plenary last week that mistakes had been made in the Defence regarding the preventive measures taken against Mr. Conings. But every day that passes brings with it all the revelations, shortcomings and - ostensibly, ladies and gentlemen, this infamous word, inherited from the 1990s - the dysfunctions existing between the intelligence services and the Defence. I will point out the three most disturbing facts in my opinion. 1. The fact that the SGRS was not aware of any police and judicial events involving Mr. Conings. There are still talk of white weapons and threats between 2015 and 2017. 2. The fact that, on 31 August 2020, the SGRS withdrew the security clearance from the person concerned but that the latter was notified only two months later. 3. Since February 17, 2021, the fact that the OCAM considered that this gentleman was worth an increase in the level of security at Level 3, but without the SGRS and the Defence obviously doing anything about this information. The question of your knowledge of this fact also arises, Madam Minister, as your colleague from the majority, Mr.Ducarme, has already pointed out. I have a few more questions. What will happen individually to the eleven members who have been dismissed? Will they be reintegrated into the army, transferred to other posts, or permanently removed? What strategy are you going to adopt with regard to extremist military personnel who may pose a threat? Are you considering strengthening preventive measures for them and involving them earlier? You mentioned last week the possible introduction of bans on access to certain neighbourhoods and suspensions and even dismissals. How do you envisage these measures in practice? You also felt last week that recruitment controls had become insufficient and that you were looking at the possibility of linking access to weapons and hazardous materials to checks carried out throughout the career. That's good, but don't you think that from the moment that potentially dangerous individuals are identified in Defence - whether they are civilian or military, whatever - they should be removed immediately, instead of restricting their accreditation? If there is an examination of compliance with military standards and values and strict psychological tests at entry, would it not be time for these requirements to also apply during the career? This has already been said, Major-General Philippe Boucké revealed on March 27th that 30 soldiers were suspected of acquiescence with the far right and were followed by the SGRS. Among these, it appears that there were two MPs responsible for parliamentary security. How were these individuals identified? Have you taken steps to strengthen the detection of potentially dangerous individuals in Defence in general? I think that's what we expect of you. Can you provide an update on the relationship between Defence and the OCAM, the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'État? Finally, how do you intend to react to military personnel who, on Facebook pages and other social networks, clearly show their support for Mr.Conings despite the extremely clear nature of his intentions? This has been mentioned by Mr Defossé. I believe, Madam Minister, that this crisis is very serious and calls for transparent and comprehensive responses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u17	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express the Socialist Group's solidarity with the 25,000 women and men in our defence, who serve our democracy and our country day after day and who have nothing to do with the far right. I would also like to express our solidarity with scientists, virologists and their families who are threatened today by extremism and who are threatened by an armed extreme right-wing terrorist. Madam Minister, you have always been very clear in your speech by firmly stating that the existence of extremism has no place in the army. In this Parliament, some parties, some Members of this Parliament have a lot of complacency with regard to the far right, and they normalise it. Some even campaign on the far right and make sure that today we have reached that point. The robustness of our National Defence is being flattened, as the Chief of Staff recalled. More than ever, and as a matter of urgency, we must stop the banality of the far right and the hatred of the other. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but recontextualize by recalling a series of events resulting from the murderous ideology of the extreme right: the burning of an asylum centre in Bilzen in November 2019; the gathering of the Vlaams Belang in Grimbergen in January with neo-Nazis of the Flemish Legion; the activities of Schild & Vrienden; the indictment and lifting of parliamentary immunity of Dries Van Langenhove; these paramilitary trainings in Hungary. In short, this is where the sowers of hatred are, this is where the responsibility for today's event lies, which we see. Minister, could an inventory of weapons stolen by the far-right terrorist be made? How could he get them out of the camp without anyone finding out? How could he find himself in possession of a key to access the weapons and ammunition depot? Do you have any information on the serious security deficiencies found, particularly regarding the camera device, which has been out of service for years, yet supposed to monitor access to the repository? What's the status of the internal investigation? What sanctions will be imposed? What are the current capabilities dedicated to the screening of members of the Defence and their evolution in recent years? How will you strengthen the safety nets to fight more than your predecessors against racism in Defence? What about the new screenings, re-evaluation procedures and ways to remedy the deficiencies? What will happen to potentially violent military personnel registered by OCAM? Finally, I come to the support groups of some soldiers for this far-right terrorist. What about these soldiers? How does Defence respond to these unworthy supporters? Does the SMS follow-up? Are sanctions provided for? Madam Minister, these are the questions and the position of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, what we first feel is a huge anger – I must admit – and a very great disappointment about everything we had, we thought, learned after the attacks in 2016. We had already pointed out at that time exactly the same malfunctions as today. The impression is, we didn't learn anything. Information is not sought when it is available on social networks. Information is not shared. This information is not processed. It is 2021 and the recommendations of our Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry are still not being implemented. Our military intelligence service is seriously failing. I think that's the diagnosis that needs to be made today. We have information that exists and that is not processed, but, more importantly, we have the impression of a form of complacency on the part of some who have this information at their disposal and who prefer not to see it, not to process it. An extremely shocking and disturbing element is that the OCAM puts this individual at level 3 of the threat and that nothing happens. How many individuals are placed at level 3 of the threat in Belgium? How much does the army count? What's going on? In general, is there a procedure? As it stands, it is felt that it is a purely bureaucratic, purely administrative act that is not followed by any measure of isolation, surveillance or control of an individual who is considered to be a serious, level 3 threat. It is also a central issue for the future. Minister, you have made human resources management the cornerstone of your policy. You said that was where you were going to invest, that we had invested in the equipment, but that you wanted to invest in human resources. It's eight months later. What have you done during these eight months to better combat and identify these problems of extremism and radicalism? What have you done in practice? When were you informed of the planned attack on this mosque, which I am told was detected in early February? What happened? Who knew? What were the consequences of this very clear threat to a place of worship? This question seems to me to be extremely important. I also hear and read in the press the presence of great distress among the military, because some are tempted by extremist and radical ideas. What have you actually done in eight months to address and deal with this distress, so as to prevent military personnel from slipping into extremism? In my view, beyond the question of complacency towards the far right, we see a fringe of society supporting real and tangible threats against virologists, doctors and institutions. Some individuals – of course, minorities – consider that the move to action and violence would now be legitimate against certain institutions. It's intolerable! We must manage this phenomenon as closely as possible. This is an extremely serious challenge, which threatens not only the security of each of our fellow citizens, but also the security of our institutions and, therefore, our democracy. In conclusion, I would echo Mr. Ducrame's remarks. For months, and even years, I have been asking – while our committee to follow up on terrorist attacks has not met in two years – for a mechanism to incorporate recommendations that have not yet been implemented. We know, however, that they are cumbersome, as the data banks remain fragmented, while the information continues not to be shared. I do not know how the policy – in other words, the members of the government competent in these areas – processes the information it receives from the OCAM. For all these reasons, we have the impression of forming the same diagnosis as a few years ago. It is therefore time to develop rigorous monitoring of these serious problems, which continue to threaten our security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Defence has the monopoly of the sword and must be neutral in order to defend human rights with honour at all times. Extremism of any kind is therefore not acceptable. I am referring to real extremism. After all, every soldier has the right to his political belief, which can deviate to the right or to the left, which happens in the best families. There is no need for purification in that area within the Defense Department. However, if we are talking about extreme extreme right, extreme left or extreme jihadism, then action must be taken. Our troops are just abroad to fight extremism, and it is therefore impossible for them to have that type of extremist in their own ranks. We heard today that even here in Parliament, the temple of democracy, some of the people of the military police would be involved. Maybe the Minister can explain that. Is that right? While we are fighting extremism abroad, we are at our doorstep with these other extreme beliefs. That is absolutely avoidable. For us, this is not about a word struggle between PS and N-VA, in which one in turn accuses one another of hatred. We need to achieve a moderate society, a society in which we understand each other better. If we are fighting extremism, we may also need to adjust the language here and there. It is not appropriate, for example, to accuse a good soul like Mr Buysrogge, a person who, in a manner of speaking, has just missed his priestly vocation, of creating hatred in society. If it was someone from downtown on the left, I'd say the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u20	Mr Bogaert, I am going to ask for the floor later because of a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u21	I wanted to compliment you, Mr. Chairman. A good man like our moderated, meek chairman to accuse of responsibility for the hatred in society, I find absolutely inappropriate. After all, we are having a debate here on combating extremism and are trying to bring some calm. When such words are used, they are extremely polarizing. We have to avoid that. In concrete terms, we have a serious organisational problem here. The OCAD reports that and rightly puts that person on the list. However, the ADIV does not know, or at least the top man does not know, whether it is known at a lower level. The real question then is how many people are doing that. If extremism goes up to the gates of Parliament, how many of those 25,000 people are being used to combat extremism or at least map it properly? I've been informed, please keep a close eye on one person working within ADIV to keep an eye on the extreme left, one person watching the far right and one person watching Islamism. Moreover, those three persons are not present full-time. With one and a half men and a horse's head, if I may say disrespectfully, an attempt is being made to tackle a problem that comes today to the gates of our democracy. Apart from the question of whether Defence has too little resources, yes, Defence clearly has far too little resources, I think that there are possible shifts within the quota of 25,000 units. Madam Secretary, my question is almost rhetorical. How many people in the Defense Department are looking for extremism? Is it true that it's one person for left, one for right and one for radical Islam, or do you have other numbers? How many security clearances have been withdrawn in the last 12 months? What did you do before 18 May 2021 to combat the problem of extremism within the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u22	Minister, let us remember that we are talking about a case that has been going on for a week and that the fugitive is still not found! The threat is particularly serious and real. As my colleague Ducarme recalled, we learn that, as early as 17 February, Jürgen Conings had been placed at level 3 out of 4 by the State Security, after information about a planned attack on a mosque. In this context, it is totally incomprehensible to me that he has been able to continue to work in Defence and, in addition, to have access to weapons and ammunition. It is urgent, Madam Minister, that a complete screening of all Defence personnel be carried out, but throughout the military career, as is done for employees in the private sector, with an annual assessment and, above all, with appropriate and immediate action, which clearly has not been done. On the other hand, with regard to other military personnel registered by the intelligence services, we are learning - and I ask you to confirm - that some of them were assigned to the security of this Parliament and other parliaments. Minister, do you confirm this? How was their monitoring adapted to the outcome of this case? I would remind you that Parliament is the heart of democracy. Is it certain today that no radicalized member of the military police is assigned to it? Here again, I invite you to make a quick screening. I recall the dramatic invasion of the Capitol in Washington, once again fomented by extreme right-wing groups. It ended in blood. We should not be able to know such a scenario in our own country. Finally, from a more structural point of view, if the legislative framework is to be changed, for a better screening of the army, we must have the staff who follow the sufficient number. Legislating would be of no use if there were not enough staff. Even the Chief of Defense says so. So what are your intentions in this regard? Are you committed to recruiting? Do you have the means of your policy? In conclusion, how many military personnel have been identified to support Mr. Conings on social networks? Can sanctions be imposed against them? If so, what order are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions are numerous and I will try to answer them as fully as possible on the basis of the information at my disposal to date. As you know, investigative duties are under way and will allow me in the near future to have more complete reports on the findings relating to the management of the personal case of Jürgen Conings. As always when asked by Parliament, I wanted to make myself available to take stock with you and explain to you the measures and initiatives taken quickly after being informed of the member's disappearance last week. Indeed, since Monday, May 17, a member of National Defence has broken the oath and vows he has made to protect our country, our institutions and our fellow citizens. As a follow-up to his extremist and violent ideas, he has acquired weapons in our arsenals and has promised to attack all those who might be in the way of his objectives. In an attempt to arrest him, all the necessary resources were mobilized at the request of the federal prosecutor and in support of the judicial police conducting the investigation, the priority being to be able to find the soldier without any casualties. Without wishing to anticipate the findings of the investigations that I have requested, I believe that awareness at all levels of our army is necessary. It is difficult for our fellow citizens to understand that weapons can be removed from our barracks to be used to sow terror. The army, as a guarantor of the protection of institutions, has a duty of exemplaryness. It is my duty to look after this and believe that I am determined to shed light on the course of events that have brought us to the situation we are experiencing today. On the basis of the current information, there are 28 soldiers who are followed by military intelligence. Jürgen Conings is one of those 28. Follow-up means that the ADIV had at a certain point information linking these persons to the extreme right-wing concept, a phenomenon which the ADIV should legally follow. From the moment the ADIV has such information, it is its task to confirm or not to exclude any risk in this way. The service collects information in various ways: through social media, through open sources, through informants or through so-called special intelligence methods. This follow-up also means that, if necessary, action is taken if a military person raises a problem. As far as the reasons for succession are concerned, it is not possible to give details about individual files, not only because that information is classified and privacy sensitive, but also because those investigations are ongoing and can communicate about them. In general, however, there are indications or indications for these persons that justify a succession as described above, indications or indications that are and were necessary for further examination. I would also like to point out that it is never a question of expressing a political opinion. On 18 and 21 May, when the facts were brought to light, on the basis of a new assessment which I had asked the military intelligence service, I called for preventive internal measures against 11 persons so that, in accordance with the procedures, they would no longer have access to weapons and ammunition, would be redirected to functions where they no longer exercise authority over colleagues and would be closely followed by the ADIV and/or their direct hierarchy. You can be sure that all the measures that have already been taken and will continue to be taken will respect the rule of law. This is exactly what separates our democratic system from the system advocated by the extremists. Once the precautionary measures have been fully implemented, appropriate measures may be followed on a case-by-case basis. In fact, the staff will - in accordance with the procedures - be able to adopt or propose measures with respect to the listed members. The appropriate type of reaction and the level at which it is taken naturally depend on each individual case. Such arrangements may be made in the interest of the service, such as restrictions on access to arms or suspension, or may be of a disciplinary nature, up to an ex officio resignation for proven criminal offences, for example. What is currently happening on the social media is very worrying. From the moment the Facebook group was removed by Facebook, I asked ADIV, in collaboration with the other security partners, to follow closely what was posted. For the employees of Defense, the applicable rules for behaviour on social media continue to apply. Yesterday, I addressed the defence staff to say that supporting violent extremist acts, in whatever form, is unacceptable to the employees of our organisation. It is contrary to the values of defence and the principles of our democratic society. It must be clear that the vast majority of defence workers do not support such acts and that they are committed to the security of the population day after day. I also addressed the defence staff to show them my commitment to deal with the crisis with them. Over the past few days, I have personally wanted to make sure that this message is clearly understood and understood by all the women and men who make up our army. Yesterday, I brought together the Defence Staff as a whole and informed them of their expectations and of the precautionary measures already in place to prevent other such situations in the future. They assured me of their full support. I have also expressed the need for the support of all Defence personnel who do not recognize themselves in the image tainted in recent days. However, it is important for the Defence Department to look at the causes for such a spiral. Defence personnel are of course a reflection of our society, but it must above all reflect the foundations of our democratic society, open, inclusive and based on equality. We must not compromise in this respect. In the recent past, I have already acted by filing a complaint with the staff against the individual who was in uniform at Boum 2 or against sexist harassers, and I will continue to act firmly if similar situations are to happen again. The question of the follow-up of extremists in defence has been a regular issue for Defence Ministers for many years. This has been the case at least 14 times between 2012 and 2020. Last week, I asked to receive as complete a picture as possible of this phenomenon within the department. This work is therefore under way and I am obviously taking all these threats seriously. In this regard, the personnel recruitment plan will help restore air to Defence and the SMS and will allow for a strengthening of the service. I want to make it clear to you: there is no room for extremist and violent ideologies in the Defence. With the staff at my side, we will repeat as long as extremism, sexism and racism do not belong in our army. As Minister of National Defence, I have a responsibility to ensure the public interest and respect for democratic values, and I intend to remain so. Let us turn now to your questions about the individual. As I told you a few minutes ago, I can confirm that he is one of the soldiers followed by the 11 SGRS. On 17 February 2021, it was placed in the common OCAM database at level 3. I have not been informed of this inscription. According to the information provided to me, he is the first and only military member to be on this list. It is constituted on the basis of information provided by the intelligence and security services. I have already reviewed his background and service record at last Thursday's plenary session. However, I will go back to the highlights of his follow-up and, of course, to the events that take us until May 17. As a reminder, a complaint of racism filed against him, among others by the Defence, was dismissed by the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2020. These events resulted in a disciplinary sentence of four days' simple arrest in April 2020. In June 2020, he moved from the military police to the increased Pre-deployment training cell following a disagreement on training. Then, during the same month of June 2020, he anonymously threatened a personality, in this case virologist Marc Van Ranst, on Facebook. An investigation is under way, but I do not have any information on the follow-up given to it by the judicial authorities. At that time, the SMSR was conducting a periodic assessment of the member's security clearance. It is in this context that this authorization will be withdrawn in August 2020, in particular as a result of threats on Facebook. In November 2020, upon notification of the withdrawal of the authorization, the SGRS met with the head of the unit on the grounds for the withdrawal of the authorization. Jürgen Conings is subsequently registered in the common OCAM database on 17 February 2021. On the basis of the initial information provided to me, it appears that at this level the information has been dealt with only at the level of the SGRS, without fully going back to the hierarchy of the service. The Chief of the SGRS said he was not informed. Concomitantly, it turns out that, a few days before the report of its registration in the OCAM database reaches the SGRS, Jürgen Conings is still the subject of an in-depth investigation and follow-up by the SGRS. The reason why this level 3 threat listing information from the OCAM is not relayed is precisely the subject of the investigations that I requested, both from the SGRS and the Committee A. I will come back to that later in my presentation. On the other hand, I can confirm that the list is not communicated to the minister, but only to the intelligence and security services. In fact, the OCAM has planned a correction to the newspaper DeTijd.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u24	As for the information on the mosque, it was processed at the SGRS and did not rise to my level either. At the beginning of May 2021, the SGRS therefore continues to follow up on different methods of gathering information and a planned operation aimed at launching the specific research methods concerning it, but suspended in order to be redirected to another operation, judged at that time and on the basis of the information available by the service, as a priority, according to the human and material resources available. On the basis of these initial findings, it appears that the exploitation of the information according to which Jürgen Conings was included in the OCAM data bank was incomplete. Similarly, the flow of this information has been weak and has remained limited to services. This information, even if isolated, should, by its nature, have been subject to a reassessment of the degree of follow-up, and possibly an adjustment of the measures taken. Therefore, and in order to answer clearly the question asked to me, I had not been informed of this situation. This situation is not normal and should not happen again in the future. With regard to the theft of weapons on 17 May, I have the following information since last night, on the basis of an initial interim report which was communicated to me by the Chief of Defence. The staff member served as a logistics assistant in the Pre-Deployment Training Individual Increasees unit and was therefore responsible for the logistical preparation of the shooting sessions. To that end, he had access to both the ammunition depot and the armory. To access the ammunition depot, he held an access card issued by the security officer. To access the armory, he was on the list of authorized persons who can remove the key. On 17 May, Jürgen Conings accessed the ammunition depot and the armory. He recovered the ammunition with a military vehicle before transferring it to his personal vehicle. He then removed both firearms by abusing access and probably the confidence of a present staff member. The following day it was found that weapons and ammunition had been stolen. It consisted of a Five-SevenN handgun, a P-90 machine gun and four light anti-shield weapons and ammunition. These facts were brought to the attention of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It should be noted that, under normal security circumstances, private vehicles of personnel are rarely checked when entering or leaving military quarters. Last week, I asked to check the monitoring systems in the neighbourhoods and to take action in case problems were identified. In this case, the armory is not equipped with surveillance cameras. Here are the first elements of the investigation that I requested from the Inspectorate General on May 19. The final report is due on 15 June. In addition, the judicial investigation should also clarify the circumstances of this theft. Finally, the R Committee also decided to open a monitoring investigation into the management of this case by the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'État, as well as their mutual cooperation and with the Defence. At my express request, it will also examine the procedure for verifying the reliability of information relating to persons suspected of radicalisation and violent extremism and will work with the Inspector General in his audit on human resources management aspects in this context. The results of this R Committee investigation are expected on June 30th. I will, of course, keep you informed. Defense can't report any information about PTSD to the fugitive Conings because it comes under the personal sphere of life or the medical secret. The military in operation, both nationally and abroad, enjoy multidisciplinary support, both psychosocially and medically, both preventively and curatively, before, during and after the shipment. The operatives in place are based on risk analyses, in accordance with the Welfare Act of 4 August 1996. Several services within the Defense Department have the task of tracking the military during the career, including operations, in order to ensure their health. Work is under way on an even more dynamic and personalised risk management system. Another project concerns the development of new instruments for measurement and follow-up after an operational deployment. A report on the test case related to a decompression period or a adaptation axis was prepared. The conclusions were presented to the military command, as well as to a hearing in the Chamber on 12 December 2018. It pointed out the positive impact of an adaptation axis on the prevention of developments in military personnel, since such an approach enrolls in multidisciplinary support, both psychosocial and medical, preventive and curative. A second sas was prepared for the detachment of the battalion ISTAR after the explosion in Mali in January 2020, but was eventually not rolled out due to covid. According to DG Health & Well-being, given the type of mission and the level of danger to which our military are generally exposed, a decompression axis for return or psychotherapeutic intervention is not necessary in a systematic way. The General Directorate of Health & Well-being will therefore further develop the experience gained and employ them on an ad hoc basis. With regard to the ongoing investigation, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is in charge and communicates. Defence is fully involved in the investigation by supporting the police. There's never been a license to kill. This is a fake news. Every effort is made to find the fugitive without causing any casualties or injuries. With regard to threat assessment, the OCAM constantly evaluates the threat on the basis of information provided by the support services. The current level for Belgium is 2. Other interests are at a higher level, but you will easily understand that I will not give further details on this. As Defence support for the investigation is still ongoing, it is premature to calculate the cost of Defence intervention. In any event, I do not think it appropriate to comment on the potential cost of an investigation and its proportionality if it can save lives. The resources made available by the Defense Department to the Federal Office now consist of a rapid intervention squad, a drone and some technical specialists. Among the other measures that are currently the subject of in-depth analysis, I have been studying for several weeks the possibility of increasing the number of verifications throughout the career of the military and also of civilians. I am also studying the possibility of linking these screens to access to dangerous weapons and materials. The impact of such a measure is significant and requires significant reflection. A proposed revision of the Discipline Regulations is also being developed at the Defence Staff. It will need to better integrate this type of problem. The range of measures available to the staff must allow for firm action when a red line has been crossed and for accompanying staff members on whom there are fears in order to give them the opportunity to recover. In conclusion, the first lessons learned from the internal survey are that there have been gaps in the use and dissemination of information and some missing reflexes in reporting. For my part, I quickly took the following steps: immediate risk reduction for members at risk according to the SMS; verification of neighbourhood surveillance measures; internal investigation by the Inspector General; external investigation by the R Committee; and proposal to improve rules on military clearances and screening. Please be aware that I am determined to make this matter clear and that I will of course consider further measures on the basis of the final report of the internal audit of 15 June and the report of the R Committee of 30 June. Finally, I would like to conclude with these words: when I arrived at Defence on 1 October 2020, I knew that I was taking charge of a department full of challenges, and I decided to meet them. Today, almost eight months later, I remain committed and determined to continue the transformation work started with the staff. It was not by chance that I attacked, from the moment I was appointed, the strengthening of the women and men who make up the Defence with the recruitment of nearly 10,000 people by 2024 and the launch of the POP Plan, People Our Priority, in favour of the staff. As I indicated, this project remains my priority. Every day, almost 25,000 women and men – military or civilian – work for a safer Belgium, both in operation and on national territory, particularly in the fight against covid-19. I am aware of the efforts, sacrifices and difficulties that this profession requires. They know they have my unwavering support. These men and women have taken an oath and they come to their promise day in, day out, after. I'm grateful to them. You can be sure that my determination has not been tarnished in any way and that in my position I am most useful to the Ministry of Defence, alongside our women and men.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for the information so far. I understand that we have little information on individual cases and investigations, but I suggest that once the investigations are completed, we look at the gaps. It is clear that mistakes have been made. You also state that in your reply. It is also clear that the person concerned had a whole track record and had been on the radar for a long time. So something must have gone wrong with the ADIV, because I cannot imagine that a security officer would have an authorisation as well as he would have the information you are giving us here. I really wonder what sense it makes in having the security services track down extremists when nothing happens to that information. When the investigation is completed, we really want to clarify these gaps. Well, it's a good thing you're helping out some fake news today about the license to kill or leaving people on foreign missions entirely to their own devices. I feel like this fake news is mostly being abused for supporting that man. Someone who turns his car into a bomb doesn't deserve support. I will conclude with two brief comments on colleagues. Mrs Ponthier clearly condemns Conings' behaviour, but states that only right-wing extremism would be detected. Let us be clear: we do not discriminate, not even when it comes to discrimination. Left-wing extremists, right-wing extremists or Muslim extremists, they just don't belong with the Defense Department. Let that be clear and let the security services do their job. Finally, there is Mr Francken and his witch hunt. I have heard clearly here that people are not being followed for the sake of expressing a political opinion. I suggest everyone stay calm. There is no point in MEPs organising an ombudsmen's service now. However, I agree with his statement that attention should be paid to mental well-being. You know, Mr President, that I have often proposed in this committee to work on mental well-being, because a good employer also looks at the mental well-being of his employees. Defence comes from this case lousy and does not deserve it at all, which is why this case deserves all the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u26	In your answer, you have in fact focused on the solution of the structural problems. That's the right approach. Especially for those Members who have not been here for so long, I would like to point out that these are long-standing structural problems longer than they are today. The problems with the ADIV military intelligence service came to light when Mr Vandeput was Minister of Defence. We have always had the impression that they have never been fully resolved. Madam Minister, you say that ADIV had spoken with Mr Conings' army unit and that, according to chronology, he subsequently held a certain position in which he could do logistical preparation and thus have access to the weapons depots. Therefore, there has been prior contact between ADIV and its military unit. How is it possible, then, that Mr Conings still had such a position with access to weapons depots? No doubt that's part of the investigation. I also welcome your statement that it will never be possible to talk about the expression of a political opinion if there is to be a fight against extremism in the defence sector. That could be about right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism or jihadism. Here we are talking about radicalisation, death threats and inciting hatred. The right approach is to take sanctions on a case-by-case basis. So it's not a witch hunt against Flemings or Flemish nationalists. Colleagues who continue to spread that rumor in order to be able to score likes in a particular public opinion, I would ask you to stop doing so. It's ruining our society. We should be united in the fight against right-wing extremism, all forms of extremism. Don't weaken our struggle. Do not weaken our society by polarizing between Flemings and others. Unlike previous governments, the government has underlined the priority given to personnel problems in the defence sector and to additional EUR 500 million. That is absolutely necessary. We'll do what's necessary. It is clear that there is a problem with human resources and recruitment. So you have our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u27	Mr President, I shall fraternally share my reply minute thirty with Mr Ducrame. I will therefore be extremely brief. Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for your answer. My first reaction is misunderstanding. How, in the face of such a malfunction, can the head of defence not be warned that a member of his department is listed level 3 by the OCAM? That doesn't seem normal to me! Nor do I find it tolerable that the hierarchy does not complete its work and that the information does not circulate. It must be noted that this did not work. If the internal hierarchy does not circulate the information correctly, we may wonder whether external controls should not be foreseen. I hear the prosecution is carrying out its task of investigating theft of weapons. On the other hand, you indicated that the collaboration between the SGRS, the Sûreté de l'Etat and the Defence clearly did not work. I therefore look forward to the report of the R Committee which is promised to us by 30 June next.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u28	Minister, first of all, I would like to join in your testimony of solidarity with our military. Defence, it's not this case. You are right to stress the demands of rigour and accountability within the SMS. When we leave for four months someone listed level 3 to have access to weapons, I can assure you that, from my point of view, simple remonstrations will not suffice. In conclusion, I would also like to say that we must apply to ourselves this requirement of responsibility and rigour, in this case politically. After hearing your answer here on 20 April about the radicalised soldiers, I don't understand how you're not taking the initiative to ask your services what they're accusing them of and to have them verify that these suspected soldiers don't have access to weapons. It is also a matter of demand and responsibility - because governing is predicting - that we will have to apply more politically in the Department of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. The investigation is, of course, ongoing. That is what we must wait for to paint a complete picture. But despite your detailed explanation, questions remain open that deserve an answer. You leave us no choice but to come back later, which we will undoubtedly do. A soldier who walks into a weapons depot at his own convenience where he was an instructor, while he was followed by the security forces, and leaves there quietly again with among others four rocket launchers, which gives the population a picture of a slapstick. If it is not all so tragic, it could possibly be thought that it was a joke, but unfortunately it is not. Madam Secretary, under the guise of the fight against extremism, you are shifting attention. We absolutely agree with the fight against extremism within the Defense Department. In your communication at least you have given the impression that you want to blame everything that is right and Flemish. In doing so, you have used a well-known tactic, which is used by someone who is in tight shoes, by looking for a scapegoat outside of himself. By overcompensating, you thought you were powerful, but you did not achieve your purpose. When it comes to polarisation, I would ask you once again not to use that tactic. The fundamental research must be conducted into why such soldiers radicalise. You say that the lists of the names of the succeeded extremists or those with a tendency to extremism were not delivered to you. I would point out that you have not understood the need to be informed. That's your responsibility. That's why you can't bounce the ball back to those responsible. That is once again a guilty omission. I would ask you to accept your political responsibility, because you simply cannot deny that it is crushing in this case. Your statement last night, that you're right where you are, doesn't grace you at all, Madam Secretary. Please don't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u30	Madam Minister, your detailed answer was enlightening on a number of points. Let me begin by finding it remarkable that it is called upon to stop the insinuation that there would be a witch hunt going on and that a certain group would be endorsed. Of course, I didn't start it. I simply heard what you said in plenary. I already knew what time it was when you called the N-VA hate songs. I would like to go on with this, because I have not received any answers in this respect. I have asked very explicitly about the number of withdrawn security clearances since the last ten days, the number of notes and warnings that have been recorded, the number of calls, the number of military in non-active, the number of bans on entry into arms depots and weapons and ammunition. I'd like to get that data. You say that you have instructed the ADIV to fully screen the Facebook page As 1 behind Jürgen and that you cannot tolerate military activity on that page, because that is contrary to the rules governing social media behaviour. What are the sanctions for that and how many soldiers are we talking about? Is that 20, 30 or 300 of the 50,000 members of the military page who have expressed their support for Jürgen Conings? I would like to know some figures, because that is what this is about, of course. You say you don't want to ban political opinions, but that would still be wrong. That must therefore be clarified further, because I am very hungry there. Finally, I have the impression that the guerre des spies that have been working for years within the ADIV between citizens on the one hand and the military on the other hand have almost cost you your head or will cost you your head, because we still have to see how everything ends. It is clear that the information has not been passed on to the higher echelons. It's hallucinating that the information that that man is on the OCAD list with Level Three is not passed through a state-dangerous man within the ADIV to Maj. Gen. Boucké. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to hear Major General Boucké on the committee as soon as possible, preferably this week, so that we can ask him how the hell that was possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u31	Madam Minister, in your reply you mentioned a number of issues that should contribute to a statement, but on several aspects you have remained on the level and you have not answered some of the questions either. However, I also note that the investigation is continuing and you have ordered two more investigations, by the Treasury Inspectorate and by the Committee I, which will also carry out a review of the military intelligence service. That's what we're waiting for with you. We hope that Parliament will be able to take note of this and that the results will be shared in all transparency. That is why we have asked for a hearing. It is of prime importance for Parliament to have a look at the structure of the ADIV and the flow of information to see where it has gone wrong. It is said that all forms of extremism must be combated, and that is true. However, by constantly repeating that the threat is coming from all sides, we ignore what has been happening on the ground in recent years. We are seeing more and more hate crimes, for example the fire that was set in Bilzen's asylum centre. We see paramilitary groups such as Shield & Friends who will train in Eastern Europe and prepare for the ultimate race struggle. We now also have the case of Jürgen Conings. So we cannot continue to say that the danger comes from all sides, there is a clear threat from the far right. We also need to take military infiltration seriously. It is therefore a question of extending security clearances and screening of military personnel, even after recruitment. Hopefully that will change and the alarm bell has now been heard once and for all. This needs to be addressed not only because there is a certain political opinion, but because people who intend to encourage hatred must be followed and screened so that this does not lead to situations like those we have ended up in today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for the very detailed answer. The investigation is ongoing and you just confirmed here that in this individual case there was no flow up, which is a first problem. Secondly, there was no flow down to the people on the premises, the direct superiors and the security officers. That is a point that we absolutely must address in the future. You have also said that you have imposed protective measures. From your political responsibility, that is normal, so you have done so boldly and directly. Of course, the basic rights are respected, which is quite weedy. Actually, that doesn't have to be mentioned. It is not about political opinions either. Several politicians and observers take a huge responsibility for the way they have poured oil on the fire in recent days. Some, including in this Chamber, were quicker to condemn and ridicule the search by all means possible in the forests than to condemn the actions of the person concerned. This places enormous political responsibility on these colleagues and observers. Madam Secretary, we must follow the matter closely. By majority and opposition together, we will do so. There have been clear system errors, which you also indicated yesterday and repeated today. I have just listed my eight points which need to be taken into account. It is important to work widely and not just focus on the case-Conings, by structuralally examining the functioning of ADIV and by structuralally looking at how this can be avoided. Madam Secretary, you told the story about the way the person was walked out. That is almost slapstick, as one member just said. Such matters should be avoided. We owe this to the 26,000 soldiers, who do their best every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have clarified many points, but there are two disturbing elements. How can we understand that this man has had access to weapons, as a person responsible for preparing shooting sessions and despite the knowledge of his profile by the intelligence services? This is indeed the cause of the threat that many people are now agitating. If we have to think about the members of our army who do not deserve to be referred to this sinister image given to them by Mr Conings today, I am also thinking of the forces of law and order who are pursuing him and the potential victims who are living in anguish. You assured us that you were not informed of the classification of the person concerned at OCAM level 3 and we have no reason not to believe you. But it is still amazing that the Minister of Defence is not informed that one of his men is ranked level 3! It's not just abnormal, it's totally unacceptable! I, too, believe that this deserves more than a reprimand for those responsible. In view of today's elements, there has been a lack of rigour on the part of the SGRS – it's obvious! – and a lack of vigilance and proactivity on the part of your department. I hope that all the conclusions will be drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u34	Mr. Chairman, I will present two or three points of reflection following the very clear, comprehensive and transparent responses of the Minister of Defence. First, the minister responded promptly as soon as she was made aware of the facts. Clarity is now being made on this issue. It has not only acted quickly to put an end to it, but has put in place structural measures to ensure that these elements do not happen again. It is difficult for her because we are talking about a robust defence that is no longer present. A series of security flaws are due in particular to staff ill-being, human resources deficiencies that, if savings had not been realized in the past, would probably not have occurred. This is not one of the explanations, I agree, but it is one of the explanations that causes the monitoring mechanism to stop. We'll probably have to go back to that. Second, of the 28 persons identified as dangerous, the Minister made it clear that she had asked the SMS to actively monitor them. Eleven of them have already been the subject of measures for the removal of homes and the withdrawal of weapons. These 28 people, including Jürgen Conings, the far-right terrorist in nature, were now closely monitored. As a follow-up, I believe that Defence's transformation work is on its way and that we have this chance to have sufficient determination than to make up for the absences that are now being targeted. The investigations will be ongoing and we will follow them closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u35	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. First of all, on political responsibility, I think there is always a political responsibility! It is the quality, the dignity of a democracy. Citizens' confidence in representatives and government is at stake. We can mention the legacy, we can invoke the context, but it is important to recall this political responsibility. I wanted to stress that. Secondly, the fact that this individual has not been reported or that there has been no reaction to this man at level 3 of the threat is indeed a serious mistake, because we learn that there was only one individual, only one in the army. That should have made all the alarms sound. All people, including you, should have been immediately informed in order to be able to react. Indeed, the OCAM had seen it right: 100% of the people who had been detected by the OCAM proved to be extremely dangerous. It is therefore even less understandable how this information did not circulate. We will, of course, be attentive to the clarifications in this regard. On the other hand, the SGRS has been in a situation of serious failure for years. We're talking about internal conflicts, lack of resources. We hear a whole series of things. There have been attempts to try to improve the situation but it does not work. At some point, we have to take stock. I had, with Mrs. Onkelinx, been in favour of a merger of the two intelligence services. I think this is an option that needs to be put back on the table. Definitely, it doesn't work and it's time to draw conclusions! Of course, I will again ask for a monitoring committee to be set up. One last word, I agree with Mr. De Vriendt: We must not oppose the north and south of the country in this history. We're all in the same boat. We are all committed to defending democracy, defending our freedoms and effectively defending the security of our citizens. I will therefore indeed be people who will not try to make it a Community issue but a question of democracy, security and freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. You've come out of the corner, whatever it takes. You can still do that. You're quite new as a minister, less than a year. Now is the time to move on. I would recommend a very firm approach. If you wait another two or three years, the problem will stick to you. You can say that a great cleaning is needed now that you have arrived at the department, but do so and act decisively. Put all the men around you well in place. I would once again recommend that you proceed. Crisises are often also challenges. I wouldn't only be firm, but also moderated. The definition of a democracy is that there are various opinions, which go from extremes on the left to extremes on the right and in the middle the curve is a little thicker. This is not always reflected in the polls, but it is only a matter of time. Anyway, it's important to keep the Gauss curve in mind when you look at society. Extreme opinions exist in society and therefore also in the Defense Department. You have to take that into account. In the most extreme opinions, it is clear what we must do, but I am somewhat afraid that any extreme opinions will no longer be able to be expressed. I read today that someone who hangs a banner with "stop Islamization" will be in jail for several months. That's weird. I'll put it on our party. Suppose someone promotes "stop Catholicism" or "the pope must go outside" and goes to jail for that, that is a very strange trend for me as a democrat. I'd look at things a little looser. I would cut off the very extreme points of the Gauss curve and evict soldiers who are affected by it from the army. However, all other opinions will have to be taken into account. What else is the definition of democracy? That is that there are all kinds of bizarre opinions, which are given structure, so that decisions are taken in one way or another, without breaking each other's heads. That must be the goal of democracy. I would therefore urge you not only to act decisively, no matter what you do and for which you have every support, but also to take into account the diversity of opinions. That is the definition of democracy in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u37	Madam Minister, to be honest, I am stunned by the first result of the internal investigation that you are issuing to us. The placement of Jürgen Conings, on 17 February 2021, at level 3 out of 4 of the OCAM threat did not go up to you, not even to the head of the SGRS, the chief of military intelligence. What is it for then? We can ask ourselves. It's absolutely incomprehensible! On the theft of weapons of 17 May 2021, in addition to the fact that he always had access to the depot, which in itself is already unthinkable, we learn that he has benefited from internal complicity in the army – as you told us – and that the depot is not equipped with surveillance cameras. It is simply hallucinating and it shows that, in the present state of affairs, without urgent measures that, I imagine, you have taken, other threats may arise. This brings me to the third point you did not answer. Are there radicalized military police officers who are assigned to the oversight of the federal Parliament and other Parliaments? I must admit that having no answer to this seems as unthinkable to me. Parliament is the heart of democracy. I remind you of what happened in Washington, D.C., Capitol: an invasion that ended in blood with five dead. I am concerned about this unanswered question. In addition to the structural measures you are right to announce, Minister, urgent action is needed and must be taken very quickly. I will end with an anecdote, Mr President. A week ago, I warned the military police of the Federal Parliament of the presence of a suspicious vehicle parked on seats reserved for parliamentarians. This morning, a week later, this vehicle did not move. He's still here! This gives an impression of laxism and, Madam Minister, in terms of security, laxism is always guilty!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u38	I just want to correct something inexact in what you said. You talked about complicity in the army. I didn't say that at all. I didn't say there was complicity in the army. I said that Jürgen Conings certainly abused the trust of a present person. But I didn't mention that. It's better to say things anyway. I am relying on the information that I have today. I don't know if I can answer Mr. De Maegd compared to his other question. Compared to the military police, they're on the list. The SGRS has information that there are potential sympathies of these people for the far right, but that are not sufficient at this stage, for them, to consider them a danger to the defence or to society. What I have said in general from the beginning in relation to these people is that I ask them to make an urgent assessment, but also a constant assessment of these people. Nor can we, and this has been said by some, incriminate everyone on the basis of an opinion, a sympathy. And on the other hand, we must also pay attention to what such events no longer happen. At this point, it is judged by the SMS to be a sympathy to watch, and not necessarily a danger at the moment I speak to you. This will be re-evaluated, as I asked them, constantly. It is the information I have today, which can obviously still vary from hour to hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. But sympathy for the far right with military police officers who monitor access to the Federal Parliament seems to me to be a real problem. I invite you, of course, to ensure that these people are at least put out of order to harm if they intend to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u40	Potential sympathies!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u41	Mr President, we have discussed the communication on a note from the OCAD on increasing the threat level and the lack of flow of information within ADIV. The boss of ADIV will come to account for this, but I wonder why such important information from the OCAD is not transmitted directly to the head of ADIV or even to the political level. It is important that we also hear the boss of the OCAD about this. It is not only about the flow of information within ADIV, it is also about information exchanged between OCAD and ADIV. I find it very strange that such an important evaluation, namely raising to level 3, which is not very much done by our own security services, would have been communicated to a lower echelon within the Defence hierarchy. It would therefore be interesting to be able to hear the director of the OCAD about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic490x.u42	This brings us seamlessly to the next item on the agenda, the order of business. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
