ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u1	Mr Minister, I had initially put this question to Minister Lalieux. The question is then referred to you. You will remember that I asked the same question on 10 March. You couldn't answer in full at the time. At that time, I had taken you a little more quickly with my question about the scope of a judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 February last in the context of the reimbursement after the tax retirement period. You'll remember the case. This is a retired man from Liège who, years ago, had a small extra earnings of €62.5 of ocharm and thus lost a tax advantage of about €500. That man had brought the case before the Constitutional Court and was right. On 10 March you could not yet reflect the correct impact or scope of that judgment, for which all understanding. I promised you that I would remind you of the question in April. Today is March 31st. This time you have speeded me up, because the efficiency of your cabinet to answer questions in Parliament is very great. Mr. Secretary, have your services been able to read the judgment? Is the judgment effectively interpreted as a valid precedent for all pension falls, for several years, up to five years ago? I refer to Article 376 (1) of the WIB 92. If it does not apply to all cases, what cases will the tax authority make automatic corrections for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u2	Mr Van der Donkt, of course the judgment has already been read, but of course it must also be assessed. That investigation has still not been completed. I am therefore unable at present to inform you of the results of the investigation, nor of the consequences of the judgment. We are, of course, doing everything we can to get an insight into this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'll come back in May. Hopefully we'll be able to do it by then. The judgment is not so difficult to read, but it is not that it burns anywhere. So I'll come back to you in May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u4	Minister, I had already been able to ask your predecessor about the dangers of virtual currencies in terms of money laundering. I would like to return to this matter with you, particularly in the light of what has been said on this issue at the hearings held in this committee on 23 February. During these hearings, the speakers were indeed unanimous in saying that virtual currencies today represent a very important potential in terms of money laundering, not to mention its corollary, namely the financing of terrorism. My previous speech to your predecessor also pointed out that, while virtual currency exchange platforms are subject to the European anti-money laundering framework (the AML Directives), this does not concern the exchange of cryptocurrency between them. According to CTIF, this legislative gap would entail significant risks of feeding money laundering circuits. Moreover, these virtual assets, valued at 1% of world GDP, are still not subject to regulation or control. If this lack of regulation does the business of its issuers, it also allows dirty money to be reinjected into the legal economic circuit or, worse still, that terrorist activities be financed. We cannot allow the mere absence of a legislative framework to have such consequences. Minister, do you have an estimate of the involvement of virtual currencies in money laundering channels in Belgium? Given the global nature of the problem, have you maintained contact with your European counterparts on this issue? What about the European discussions on creating an EU-wide legislative framework to regulate these virtual currencies? Could we not, on the Belgian side, go a step further than the AML5 directive and include cryptocurrency exchanges between them in the anti-money laundering device?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u5	Mr President, Minister, bitcoins have a great turnout, also as a means of payment, with now also payment terminals. Of course, the danger of money laundering will be peeping around the corner. The money laundering bill was amended last year anyway. For the providers of services in the exchange of virtual and fiduciary currencies and the providers of storage wallets, a number of items are included in the amended Money Laundering Act. It's gonna take a KB to work that out. Can you give me the status of that KB? Is there a need for additional regulation to start the fight against money laundering, including the crypto coins and the bitcoins?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u6	Mr President, Minister, as my colleagues have pointed out, there are some pertinent questions about the use of crypto coins. The press recently reported on the installation of a number of bitcoin machines in Belgium. In the Netherlands, the mayor of Rotterdam has pointed out that the installation has a link with the underworld that uses such systems. Also in the Sky file, the conversations show that the criminal world is actively using it. It is good that new technologies are being created, that new forms of money payment and coins are being considered. At a time when there may already be some overregulation in the classical circuits, the banking world, isn't it high time to think about regulating the use of crypto coins better? I'm thinking about the bitcoin machines. So much for my questions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of cryptocurrency has moved to a higher speed. In the meantime, discussions are under way at European level to create a regulatory framework for the functioning of the cryptocurrency market. In the meantime, within my administration, a working group will gather all the information on cryptocurrency in order to organise an effective tax surveillance of Belgian revenues in cryptocurrency. At present, Belgian legislation does not have a specific tax system for the income from crypto coin transactions, so that the general provisions apply. The question focuses on the fact that an ever wider audience invests in crypto coins and that even the house-garden and kitchen belligerer is now willing to do so. My administration will check whether the intended operations are carried out within the framework of normal management of private property. Given the lack of safeguards, the decentralisation, the variety of cryptoassets, the uncertain qualification and the lack of regulation, further tax scrutiny is required here. In principle, such income may be taxed at a separate tax rate of 33%, unless globalization is no longer beneficial. On the VAT side, the administration took the view that the taxable amount for the underlying supply of goods or services paid with bitcoins should be determined by analogy with the provisions of Article 26 of the VAT Code on the basis of the usual market value in regular trade, expressed in legal tender, i.e. the euro. My administration has already published its position through the VAT Comment in Section 30, transactions concerning currency, banknotes and coins which are legal tender, of Chapter 9. You can consult them via the tax database Fisconetplus. So far, CTIF has struggled to assess the involvement of virtual currencies in money laundering channels. Since August 2020, virtual currency exchange platforms have been subject to the Law of 18 September 2017 on preventing money laundering and terrorist financing and limiting the use of cash. The Royal Decree laying down the rules for their registration is in the final stage. However, the CFI has already reported some files relating to virtual currency to the judicial authorities. Bitcoin machines are considered as providers of virtual and fiduciary currency exchange services in both Belgian and European law. Therefore, the persons who install and manage bitcoin machines, if they have a fixed location in Belgium, are considered as subject entities within the meaning of the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and limiting the use of cash, also known as the AML Act. Services providers will also have to register with the FSMA, which has been appointed as a supervisor and as such will have to ensure that they comply with the above-mentioned law. Where appropriate, the supervisor may also act as a sanction. The modalities of the registration procedure with the FSMA and the exact conditions for registration will be clarified in a Royal Decree, which is currently in the final stage of the decision-making process. As mentioned above, the European Commission took the initiative at the end of 2020 to better frame and regulate virtual currency exchange platforms and other players dealing with virtual currencies. Belgium is actively participating in the discussions to define which intermediaries should be regulated. CTIF believes that it is very useful to also include cryptocurrency swap operations in the anti-money laundering device.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u8	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I am reassured that our tax administration, in particular, is going to control this phenomenon a little more and carry out an analysis of the potential dangers. Similarly, the advancement at European level of a more uniform legal framework is a good thing because it is a very important issue on which we must work to achieve fair taxation, like everyone else, but also and above all to combat possible terrorist financing. I suggest that you wait for a little bit of evidence from our tax administration to come back to you with a change in the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u9	Minister, thank you in turn for your very specific answer, it was very informative. I, too, decide that our administration rightly focuses on this and that there is still a way to go. I am pleased that the information is passed on to the judicial authorities in the event of problems. I suppose we'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Bitcoins and crypto coins are a new feature. It is a good thing that there are two areas of clarity: firstly, tax treatment, both in terms of income tax and in terms of VAT, to which you referred. Secondly, there is clarity about control and avoiding bitcoins and crypto coins being used to launder money. In doing so, we welcome the European initiative, but also your mandate to the administration to examine with an internal working group how targeted and effective tax controls can be carried out in this area. We'll follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u11	I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I can only call for the necessary measures to be taken with a KB as soon as possible, to close the current back door and to ensure that bitcoin machine providers are registered and that effective checks are carried out to prevent money laundering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u12	Madam President, Minister, in 2014 a number of information known as LuxLeaks was revealed by an international consortium of journalists (ICIJ). This new fiscal and financial scandal brought to light the practices of our Luxembourg neighbour with regard to tax rules: a system characterized by a lack of transparency, complacent decisions and ultimately harmful tax dumping for other states. The content of several hundred very advantageous tax agreements concluded by audit firms with the Luxembourg tax administration on behalf of many international clients has thus been revealed. These clients include the world's largest multinational companies. This information showed that, thanks to this system, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, whose ability to adapt to European developments in tax and banking transparency is known, was seeking to continue to attract certain types of financial flows and capital from multinational groups. This system allowed multinationals and other actors to benefit from a very low corporate tax rate or to reserve a privileged tax regime for the income of certain tangible or intangible assets housed in subsidiaries located in Luxembourg. My questions are about following up on this information, but also about – and above all I want to draw attention to this – whether our country remains under the threat of an organised Luxembourg system of industrial tax avoidance, that or another. Mr Minister, what concrete consequences has this Luxembourg fiscal rule had for our public finances? Has your administration made any tax adjustments in the head of Belgian companies? According to your information, has the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg abandoned this practice? Has the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted any other system allowing it to continue to give tax opinions that are complacent or another mechanism that could once again constitute a harmful tax practice for other States? Do your services remain vigilant in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u13	Mr Laaouej, I can inform you that my administration is always attentive when examining cross-border transactions involving countries whose legal provisions or practices may have inadequate and potentially destructive tax advantages of the taxable base in Belgium. However, it is not possible for me to give you details of the various tax adjustments that would have followed harmful practices. In general, however, it can be said that on the basis of the information made public since the LuxLeaks' disclosure, the general administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes has made adjustments at the rate of 22.9 million euros of recruitment. No harmful alternative practice has so far been identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u14	Mr Minister, it goes without saying that I am asking the question because I am very afraid that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg – a friendly country, a neighbouring country – will, however, remain faithful to its tradition of adapting to the new European and international legal context. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg was seen to evolve, especially when the automatic exchange of information system was introduced. They have been reconverted by offering new assets. In particular, these famous Luxembourg rilings, which are particularly complacent, have emerged and have attracted to them a series of financial flows of multinationals. It is also known that they are once again pinned into a new system – which already existed but which visibly persists – of mailboxes, allowing also to offer international and aggressive tax planning solutions to a series of operators, to the detriment of their neighbours, including Belgium. Since the LuxLeaks have precisely highlighted this ruling system more than advantageous, I am very afraid that they have adapted to continue to offer a service of the same nature to certain multinational groups – again, to the detriment of the other European states and in particular their neighbours. That is why I really urge you to draw the attention of your administrations, your services, in particular the Special Tax Inspectorate, once again to ensure that it does not let anything go and that it is pro-active in detecting any new arrangements put in place by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to the detriment of its neighbouring countries, including Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u15	Mr Minister, after the Footbelgate, it seems unfortunately that a new financial scandal broke out in the world of Belgian football. Indeed, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office suspects numerous suspicious financial transactions involving several Belgian football clubs and personalities. Several players' agents would also be the basis of these transactions. More specifically, commissions relating to the transfers and salaries of coaches and players were reportedly hidden from the authorities. In addition, acts of money laundering, private corruption and match rigging are cited. Dozens of searches have recently been carried out in Belgium and abroad concerning these acts. Of course, I am not going to ask you to comment on an ongoing judicial inquiry. However, in view of the repetition of this type of malfeasance in the world of football, I would like to ask you the following questions. Minister, what information does your administration have at this stage? Do we already have an idea of the amounts involved? How do your services cooperate with the FPS Justice on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u16	Mr. Bayet, my administration has only very partial access to the file, so the details requested cannot be provided. We understand that the investigation is still ongoing and, as you know, the taxpayer's charter prohibits the tax authorities from cooperating with the FPS Justice and the police. However, as provided by the law in force, and once full access to the file has been obtained, an una via consultation will be organised. That said, since the "Clean Hands" operation at the end of 2018, I am just as outraged by the revelations about players' agents in the world of football, especially since these new revelations seem to show that the promised transparency and other measures of the Pro League have not been sufficiently implemented. The government agreement states that the role of these agents will be monitored, which has been implemented in the meantime. Given the specialized nature of the subject matter, this is done within the ISI administration. These ongoing actions of my administration and the Public Prosecutor's Office support my policy note, which provides for the necessary measures to increase the transparency and compliance of the individuals and clubs mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that you have little detail since the investigation is under way. I will allow myself to return to you as soon as your administration has a little more information. In Belgium, as in other parts of the world, football is a flagship sport that conveys fair play, solidarity and example values for our youth. We've already had horrible stories with Operation Clean Hands and I hope we can work with the players of good will in the football sector to try to improve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u18	Minister, as part of an investigation opened in 2016 by the French national financial prosecutor's office, several senior officials of the McDonald's France group have recently been questioned for suspicions of money laundering and tax fraud within the company. These suspicions are based in particular on a complaint by elected trade union members against the fast food giant. In particular, the survey focuses on a system to avoid corporate tax and the payment of participation premiums for employees. This system, which is quite classic, is based on a mechanism of financial flow between the restaurants which are mostly franchisees and the parent company, with the aim of drastically reducing the profits appearing on the balance sheets of the establishments and thus limiting the tax bill of all. No one will be surprised to see, again, a large multinational group involved in a tax crime case, motivated by the lure of irrepressible gain. What interests me here, Minister, is whether these facts may have had repercussions in Belgium or whether your services have had similar practices in Belgian brands. Minister, do you have more information about this matter? Have your services detected similar facts about Belgian restaurants? Moreover, what about the monitoring of the Belgian CTIF on this file? In view of the opening up of the European single market and the potential contagion of such practices in Belgium, has your administration exchanged information with the French tax authorities on this matter? Finally, can you give me an account of Franco-Belgian cooperation when this kind of scandal occurs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u19	Mr Bayet, according to your question, it can be concluded that this is a criminal case. The fight against money laundering is, in principle, not the task of the tax administrations, but rather that of the public prosecutor's offices and the federal police. My administration therefore does not have this information. Where appropriate, professional secrecy prohibits me from providing information on specific taxpayers. Nevertheless, I can point out that my administration is very aware of the risks of fraud associated with aggressive tax planning. If Franco-Belgian cooperation were to prove necessary, useful means – including a legal framework, direct contacts – would be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. Again, this is aggressive tax planning. What can be achieved in France is certainly done in Belgium. So I think we have to take the lead, just as we did in our government agreement. I think we really need to work on just taxation of GAFAs. As we discussed earlier with cryptocurrency, there is a real problem with GAFA. In my view, there is a need to achieve better taxation, a more appropriate taxation of the new electronic economy. I'm counting on you to move on with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u21	Madam President, Minister, the practice of making individual prior decisions public was recently adopted in this House. The central services - Operational Expertise and Support Service, VAT Service - often make decisions in files that also have a general purpose. These decisions shall not be published, so other taxable persons are not aware of them. It is not entirely clear to me whether all the inspectors are aware of these decisions so that they can apply VAT legislation equally. At the beginning of your presidency, you announced that you were strongly in favour of transparency. Are VAT decisions which have a general effect notified to all tax inspectors? If the prior decisions of the ruling service had to be published on anonymised, would it not be logical that the general VAT decisions should also be published, for example in Fisconetplus? Can you take care of that? The taxpayers will be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u22	Madam President, Mr Donné, the administration publishes its general views to the public and to staff by means of circulars, fax messages and the VAT-Comment. A collection of the current doctrine is included in the very extensive VAT comments updated annually, which, like the circulars, can be found in the Fisconetplus database. In addition, topical messages and FAQs are also published via the FPS Finance website. These documents contain not only comments on new legislation, but also changed views of the administration, for example as a result of the evolution of case law. Until 31 December 2016, part of the VAT decisions were also published. By the way, they are still accessible via Fisconetplus. For reasons of uniformity with other taxes, VAT decisions have since also been brought to the attention of the public and employees as circulars. The employees working in the Management, Control and Expertise department within an SME or GO centre are also supported internally, including through the periodic organisation of expert networks dedicated to knowledge sharing and in which the central services actively participate. In this way, all necessary information will be communicated to both the public and the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u23	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u24	Minister, this too is a question of transparency. It has already been mentioned in the discussion of the programme law of December last year. Then I asked for those monthly statistics to be posted on the FPS Finance website. You replied that you wanted to make those statistics available effectively and that transparency is very important to you. Hence my questions. When can we expect the publication of these monthly statistics on the various excise goods on consumption? Is it possible to publish these statistics from 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u25	Last year, the FPS Finance decided to take a different approach to the publication of the annual report. Indeed, the table you are referring to is no longer included in the 2019 annual report. However, monthly statistics on the various excise goods in consumption can be found on the FPS Finance site. In concrete terms, this means the following. On the page of the Belgian federal revenue collected, under the heading "Total receipts" by nature and by administration: realisations, tabs B.4.2 and B.4.2.1 contain the statistics requested. For the last 24 months, the figures are available even per month. They're updated every time. Those figures are currently online until January 2021. The information can therefore be found on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your very technical answer. I was given the information that the table 5.3.2 on which it relates would not have been updated until 2021 and that it did not contain a breakdown in the different categories, but I will look at whether this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u27	Madam President, Minister, with our money laundering law and the corresponding European directives, a true relay system was developed to tackle money laundering. This starts with the subject entities that are required to report any suspicious act to the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI), which then forwards it, if necessary, to the public prosecutor for further investigation. The CFI in Belgium is an important hub in that relay and is not alone, certainly not in money laundering, for which international components often exist. They are in turn linked to other foreign CFIs, the so-called financial intelligence units (FIE). There is also cooperation in a sort of platform called FIU.net, under Europol. However, it appears that a new initiative on cooperation between all those national intelligence units would be launched in the first quarter of 2021. When can we expect this new form of cooperation? In what way does it differ from the current form of cooperation? Will the Belgian CFI be able to participate without difficulty in this new form of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u28	Madam President, Mr Matheï, the European Commission has indeed proposed a new structure which would allow better cooperation between the FIUs at European level. This structure will complement the existing mechanisms within FIU.net. The discussions are still ongoing and there is therefore no decision yet. This new structure should allow Member States' FIUs to cooperate more closely and to identify more quickly common trends and mechanisms in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing, in particular by making common, typological and strategic analyses available to the different Member States. In addition, the proposal also contains technical elements, such as setting up an organisation that allows videoconferencing or which has the means to designate experts if necessary. The proposal will further develop operational cooperation between FIUs in addition to bilateral exchanges. Discussions at European level are advanced and it is expected that this project could be finalised in the course of 2021. For Belgium, the law of 18 September 2017 should be fulfilled as a basis for creating a new cooperation structure. The CFI already has the legal capacity to exchange information with one or more counterparts if confidentiality and data protection conditions are respected. Also technically, the CFI is already connected to FIU.net from the start. As the aim is to integrate FIU.net into the coordination and support mechanisms, no insurmountable adjustments are expected in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u29	Minister, money laundering is taking place internationally, and that is why it needs to be tackled internationally and in a coordinated manner. We believe that this new form of cooperation, as it is now being developed at European level, can be an important means of achieving this. We also hope that Belgium will be able to take a leading role in the further discussions and approaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u30	Mr Minister, on 4 March the OECD took stock of the international reform of corporation tax for multinationals. Those negotiations should be concluded in July. It is an important issue for our country, because the coalition agreement refers several times to these negotiations. For example, the introduction of a Belgian digitak depends on an international outcome, whether satisfactory or not, of these OECD negotiations. Minister, how do you estimate the chances of success for an ambitious and meaningful reform by July? Will this reform actually result in digital multinationals in Belgium paying a fair contribution to their economic activities? One of the main elements of the reform is the global minimum effective tax on multinationals, the GloBE proposal. The OECD indicated on 5 March that it was one of the most important political points of disagreement. What is the Belgian negotiating position in this respect? What minimum rate are we arguing for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u31	Mr Minister, as you know, the European Commission intends to address the issue of a tax on web giants, commonly known as the GAFAM tax, by June. Now that the Biden administration is based in the United States, the discussion has resumed in order to flatten everything in order to adapt international taxation to the new digital realities and allow countries where the market is located to touch a share of the cake. As Le Soir reported a few days ago, the idea is obviously to tax net businesses where they have users and not where they live their intellectual property. This negotiation obviously suffers from a timing factor, because some Member States are afraid of moving too fast at European level, which could abruptly hit the US by giving the signal that the negotiations have failed or that the European Union wants to move forward alone. While some countries advocate sticking to taking action only if negotiations at OECD level fail, others prefer to give priority to international consensus. In the same article, Le Soir explained that the Commission would consider that its forthcoming June proposal would be separate from the OECD negotiations and would be the subject of separate proposals. Acting temporarily at the level of smaller companies without making the web giants solidarity in tax matters could of course be very problematic politically, since they had obviously benefited from the crisis. Here are my questions, to see more clearly. What is Belgium's position in the discussions at the OECD? What are the Belgian policies and priorities regarding the taxation of digital giants, the famous GAFAM tax? What position will Belgium take in the European discussions by June?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u32	Belgium, of course, remains optimistic about reaching an agreement on the principles of reform by early July. That is also what I told you last week in the feedback on the activities of the Eurogroup and Ecofin. Negotiations at OECD level were restarted at the beginning of this year. In January, the results of last year's public consultation on the two pillars, based on the so-called blueprints, were discussed. Shortly thereafter, technical discussions in the various working groups also resumed. The change in the position of the United States with regard to the optional nature of Pillar 1 is very encouraging in this respect. Several technical issues remain to be decided. It is important to be careful not to draw premature conclusions on the outcome of these discussions. In the event of an agreement, the objective of the reform is indeed to ensure that multinationals pay a fair amount of tax according to their activity, on the basis of new non-physical presence-based profit allocation rules contained in Pillar 1. The setting of a minimum rate will, of course, be one of the most delicate elements of the negotiation process, which will include both political and technical considerations. It is expected that the tariff will only be discussed at the end of the discussion after all the other elements of the proposal have stabilised. Only then can a clear and clear position be taken on the minimum rate. It is therefore too early to take up any position on this at the present stage of work. At European level, the European Council recently reaffirmed the need for urgent adoption of new rules to ensure that all economic operators pay their fair share of taxes. He also reiterated his preference for a comprehensive solution in the context of the work of the OECD. However, the European Union stands ready to resume this work on its own in the event of a lack of a comprehensive agreement by mid-2021. In addition to the announced reform of national tax rules, the Commission is invited to present a proposal for a separate digital tax known as digital levy in the first half of 2021. The details of that charge are not yet known. The tax would be part of the European Union's budget and would therefore aim to grant the European Union a new own source of revenue from 2022. It was made clear from a European perspective that the introduction of a new tax would not interfere with the ongoing OECD negotiations. The timing issues to which you refer in your question should also be taken into account in that perspective. Moreover, our position on the digitalization of the economy remains unchanged. Our country is fundamentally in favour of a multilateral response to this phenomenon, whether at the OECD level or at the European level. Belgium will therefore continue to cooperate constructively in the work carried out at both levels, in accordance with the priorities set out in the Government Agreement of 30 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u33	Minister, this time your feedback was more thorough than last week. I note your optimism and the fact that you are seeing encouraging signals. I also agree with you that we must avoid premature conclusions. Apparently it is too early to take a position and you cannot yet say anything about our attitude towards setting a minimum rate. It is important, however, that we do not lose sight of the objective of ensuring that everyone pays a fair contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. In connection with what my colleague Mr Joris Vandenbroucke has just said, I do believe that this is fundamental. And you reminded him: it is a matter of justice. Every business, every business, especially here, digital giants, must contribute fairly, like all other businesses, to the financing of the community. We will continue to be extremely attentive to this issue. We know your ambitions. We know the ambitions of the government agreement. We really hope that this issue will land as quickly as possible at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u35	In view of the fact that the crisis of the coronavirus persists and still has a negative impact on the economic situation, I have instructed my administration to extend at least until 30 June 2021 the tacit moratorium in force since the beginning of February. In addition, I would like to object to the percentage of citations in bankruptcy from institutional creditors. Of the total number of bankruptcies opened for 2019, 24% were opened after a citation in bankruptcy by my administration. For the year 2020, this percentage has fallen to 8%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is important to set an example in a situation where companies are in difficulty. I am delighted that you are careful not to rush their fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. The tacit moratorium of public administrations is now ending. It's very good news to extend it until June 30th. We welcome this decision, which we fully support. I hope we don't need it later, but the future will tell us. It is important that public administrations lead by example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u38	Mr Minister, yesterday the Committee on Finance and the Budget had a very extensive meeting on a further few hundred million euros of support measures, such as social security payments, investment in public transport and holiday money. Your reply indicated that these expenditures would have to be approved by now in order to be paid in June or July. This could not wait until after the Easter holiday, but had to be discussed and approved in committee yesterday and must also be discussed and approved with urgency in plenary tomorrow. We have also supported urgency. However, this urgency is becoming more and more acutely contrasted with the hospitality file. The catering sector will be reopening soon. The sector is having a particularly difficult time, because it has been closed for months. It is important for the catering industry to be able to open again, but also to know under what conditions that will happen so that one can prepare oneself by, among other things, adjusting the cash register system. I therefore ask again where the aid package for the catering industry is. Why isn't there any clarity? If this is possible for holiday allowances to be paid in June and rushed by Parliament, why can't this be done for the catering sector? I can't follow anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u39	Mr Minister, my question is in line with that of my colleague Loones. The horeca sector is looking forward to the reopening which it hopes will be quick, while also hoping to be able to benefit from measures, including the application of the 6% VAT on meals and non-alcoholic beverages. I know you and the government are working on it. I am also aware of the budgetary situation, but I think in particular that the extension of a measure such as this over a less fixed period of time could in any case give a great deal of air to this sector which is experiencing the worst of this health crisis. [[Minister, can you say a few words about this?]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u40	Mrs Jadin, Mr Loones, you have raised this question several times. A number of measures are already on the table, including the present measure. In the past, the government has already taken a very wide range of aid measures, which the catering sector can also, of course, make use of. As you know, a package of recovery and re-launch measures will continue to be taken in the near future. Of course, this will also benefit the catering sector. The federal government is currently discussing the recovery and relay package, which includes the reduction of the VAT rate to 6% for restaurant and catering services and the extension of 100% deductibility of representation costs. With regard to these support measures for the Horeca in the area of income tax and VAT, I am aware that the reduction of VAT, but also the deductibility to 100% of hospitality expenses, are important support measures for the Horeca sector. You also know that we have already taken a whole package of aid measures. I am thinking here of the proposal to tax incentives for landlords to cancel the rent on the part of a property used for the business activity. This commercial rental is a very important cost for the traders and the catering operators. After all, there is no revenue in relation to the structural cost. With this measure we have given the catering operators extra support and breathing space. The draft bill on temporary support measures for the covid-19 pandemic, which includes this rent waiver measure, was tabled in the House of Representatives on March 16 and has been approved in the meantime in the House's Finance Committee. I think it will also be voted on tomorrow at the plenary session. Mr Loones, the RSZ contributions are of course not within my competence. It is, of course, the responsibility of the government, and in particular of the Minister for Social Affairs. There is a proposal on the table within the broader package of recovery and rescue measures. We have already taken a number of important measures for the sector. An important measure for rental will be put to the vote in plenary tomorrow. There is still a package of recovery and re-launch measures on the table, which we will decide very quickly. I have committed myself to this and you can trust that we will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u41	The problem isn't trust. I sincerely believe that you are concerned about the sector and that you are working on measures. I just don't understand why we've been talking about this for months now in inter-kabinets meetings, when everyone knows what to decide. We read it in all the newspaper articles, but not here in Parliament, where it is to be voted on. Yesterday there was a vote and tomorrow we absolutely must vote very quickly on holiday allowances for workers that will have to be paid in July. We must support a €6 million project by Mrs De Sutter on the digital divide. The Minister replied that Mrs De Sutter does not even know how she will spend that money. Several types of aid must be approved quickly, even if they only have to be paid within a few months, whereas the catering industry actually needs that security to be able to prepare itself for it in practice. It doesn't take much work. Lowering the VAT can be done via a KB. You can take that yourself and you can do it perfectly now. The measure may start to run from the moment the hospitality sector opens. You can decide that this will not apply until summer, but longer than summer, as far as we are concerned, until after the end of the year. You can give that safety and guarantees to the sector. I call once again on you to do so as soon as possible, so actually now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u42	Minister, thank you for these answers, but they leave me a little on my hunger. I can only reiterate this need for a strong sign that should arrive quickly, as to the measures you are working on. These are good, they have proven their worth and the Horeca sector calls for their wishes. This sector, I would remind you, is in dire need of it. I do not understand what does not allow today to make these announcements already. But I can only reiterate to you the support of my political group for the continuation of these measures, including for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u43	Mr Piedboeuf, I have not yet had the opportunity to consider the recommendation of 19 March 2021 on improving the situation of frontier workers. The commitment made in 2019 between former Prime Minister Charles Michel and his Luxembourg counterpart Xavier Bettel to start negotiations to revise the 24-day rule has never been realized due to a number of technical and budgetary issues. This does not mean, however, that the file has been thrown into oblivion. The issue of telework is part of a global renegotiation of the current Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation. This treaty dates back to 1970. It is important that it be adapted to current standards. In this context, a balanced solution, encompassing the problem of teleworking, must be sought by the negotiators. In addition, this also offers the advantage of possibly being able to take into account discussions on the impact of telework that will soon be conducted at OECD level. I recently instructed my administration to resume negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with a view to finding a long-term solution that takes account of societal developments in telework. As for the proposal to extend the 24-day rule to other professions, such as entrepreneurs, liberal professions or business leaders, I am not in favour of it a priori. The rule should be limited to dependent professions, as is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u44	Minister, thank you very much. You will see that the Benelux Recommendation seeks to adjust the practices in the Netherlands, Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in particular with regard to the exchange of workers. I hear your reticence with regard to 24/48 for the other professions. If we can already agree on the 24/48 on employees, this will already be a very good step forward. The agreement that had been reached was obviously a gentleman's agreement. But the tax authorities had been charged with preparing for the revision of the convention. As I said in committee last week to one speaker, the Belgian tax administration is reluctant. But the tax administration is wrong! There is no budgetary impact here, since people are already engaged. They're just going to work remotely with the same employer. So there's nothing changed. On the other hand, we improve the way we live, the way we travel. We're improving relationships with the neighbor. I feel like you're willing to move forward. Thank you. I can sometimes give you support over a whole series of details that I know well and which Mr Arens knows well as well. You know him, he's the mayor of Attert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u45	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a particular question for my Communist and Marxist colleagues in our assembly. In the General Administration Patrimonium Documentation of the FPS Finance, the Administration provides information collection and exchange for the heritage information, both movable and immovable, of natural and legal persons, as well as for the dissemination of that information to public institutions, private institutions and citizens, with, of course, respect for the provisions on the protection of privacy. I refer to Article 236a of the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights. A Flemish interest association of private owners of forests, nature reserves, historical properties and agricultural plots has initiated interim proceedings before the Antwerp court in order to stop publishing private data of the owners of the plots concerned. The reason for this is the publication by a research site of a ranking of Flemish landowners, after a large amount of land register data has apparently been leaked. Moreover, that association of interests calls for an urgent internal investigation of the Federal Department of Patrimonium Documentation, which manages the data and should prevent data leaks. Mr. Minister, are you aware of the possible involvement of administrations in the General Administration Patrimonium Documentation of the FPS Finance in those data leaks? Apart from the specific dossier, which, of course, you cannot go into, what is the substantive legal response to the publication of such data and data? Is there an internal investigation of this in the administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u46	Mr Ravyts, I have been informed that the General Administration of Patrimonium has received a complaint from a law firm about data leaks. I can assure you that the cadastral data will be delivered in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data and on the delivery of heritage data. Officials of the administration shall also be bound by professional secrecy. Personal data, such as owner data, are only made available to third parties for a limited number of purposes. The supply or use of cadastral information for commercial, political or electoral purposes is of course prohibited. In my administration, there is a procedure for processing data leaks. As soon as an incident is reported, an internal investigation will be initiated. Of course, this has also happened in the case of the alleged complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u47	Thank you, Minister. You have mentioned the procedure for data leaks, and you have said that an internal investigation will be carried out automatically. I therefore assume that there is a suspicion that cadastral information has been leaked here, otherwise the news site could not have touched that data. I think it is very important that we monitor professional secrecy very closely, otherwise Pandora's box will open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u48	Madam President, Minister, recently I was contacted by an entrepreneur who controls domestic water installations, with a somewhat curious story. In Belgium, household appliances connected to the drinking water circuit must be pre-checked. These controls can be carried out by private auditors or by the drinking water companies. It now appears that the services provided by the private auditors are subject to a standard VAT rate of 21%. However, if the same action is carried out by a drinking water company, a benefit regime of 6% applies. The entrepreneur in question considers that unfair competition, which I can understand somewhere. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, how do you explain the difference in VAT rates? Secondly, do you agree that an equalisation of VAT rates in this case would be fairer? Thirdly, if you agree, what steps should we take to ensure that tariffs are effectively aligned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u49	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that the supply of drinking water via water distribution is subject to the VAT rate of 6%. If a company responsible for the supply of drinking water approves the drinking water installation, the fee for the inspection charged to a subscriber shall be an element of the price of the supply of drinking water. Thus, the VAT rate of 6% also applies. The inspection is not a separate performance or service, but a cost associated with the supply of drinking water. If such an inspection is carried out by an independent inspector, the inspection cannot be regarded as an element of the price of the supply of drinking water, since the inspector does not, of course, supply the drinking water itself. As a result, the standard VAT rate of 21% applies. The VAT legislation thus involves two identical activities, but also two different types of transactions, each subject to its own VAT rate. The position is also in line with the European VAT Directive and the case law of the European Court of Justice. As you know, Member States can only apply a reduced VAT rate to the categories of goods and services listed in the exhaustive list in Annex 3 to the said Directive. Moreover, only the European Commission can take an initiative to adapt the provisions on VAT rates. However, a number of years ago, the European Commission drew up a proposal to thoroughly reform the existing provisions of reduced VAT rates. I have been asked a number of times about this in this House and have always answered it in the same way. So there is indeed a proposal on the table. In this way, the basic principle of current European regulation, with a restrictive list, would be reversed. The possibility of a reduced VAT rate is now being proposed for all supplies of goods and services, with the exception of those included in a very limited list. For example, it could also be possible in the future to apply these tests by independent inspectors at the rate of 6%. That is, of course, a political choice at the time. Negotiations for the European Commission's new proposal have been going on for a long time. They are very difficult because there are still very large differences of opinion. This proposal must be adopted unanimously by the Member States. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the time limit within which this will happen. Nor is it certain that the final compromise will allow a reduced VAT rate for the control of water installations by independent inspectors. In short, the application of the VAT rates is correct today. Could this be reduced to 6% in the long term? This possibility exists, but the VAT Directive must first be considered at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u50	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. Of course, this is technically correct. That's how it is today, but that's the problem. The inspection is considered to be part of the same operation as connecting drinking water, whereas this is not the case with a private inspector. I also did not suggest that VAT should be set at 6% for both. It can also go to 21 %. I deliberately didn't make a statement on that. It's just about getting even. Over the years, a number of anomalies have crept into VAT legislation. That must have happened for good reasons someday. I think we should try to detect, inventory and, if possible, remedy these anomalies. Hopefully this will be possible with the reform of VAT legislation at European level, even if you yourself indicate that this can drag on for a while. That is why we may need to consider whether we can do something about it ourselves. In this case, for example, can we make two separate actions in connection with the drinking water companies? Can we call on citizens to report similar anomalies to remedy them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u51	Question No 55015223C by Mr Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u52	It's a subject I come back to on a regular basis. Don't blame me! The crisis and the ban on non-essential travel abroad are at least good: the distribution of wines and spirits in Belgium benefits. That was not the case at all, and it will of course no longer be the case once we have left behind this unfortunate health crisis – I hope it will be so quickly. I would like to tell you that these excise duties on certain alcoholic products do not work. The Belgian consumer then acquires what he wants and needs, what he consumes in moderation, abroad. It is a request that I also relay many representatives of the Horeca or of wine and spirits producers in Belgium. It is true that it is obvious how much the price difference can vary on the same product from one country to another, if compared with Belgium. Minister, are you aware of this? Did you understand how these excise duties on alcoholic products did not have the desired effect? This is certainly not the case in terms of money for the State, if not in this period of crisis perhaps. Can we hope that you will put this issue on the table of the government under this legislature again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Jadin. Of course, I'm aware of that. When we look at the figures, total excise revenues for alcohol and alcoholic beverages decreased in 2020 compared to 2019. A slight increase is observed only for quiet wines and spirit drinks. We can assume that different factors in relation to the corona measures have weighed excise revenues. One element of this development will be the decline in cross-border purchases, but we cannot determine the exact impact. We will continue to monitor excise revenues and the tax burden on alcoholic and non-alcoholic needs in our country and neighbouring countries when we take further action in this sector. We will take into account the competitive position of our companies, but at present there is no question of reducing excise duties on alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u54	Thank you, Minister. That's too bad. I consider that this measure does not have the desired effect, that is to say, to increase the State's money. I'll stay in my position. Madam Chair, I turn my questions Nos. 55015492C and 55015493C into written questions. Because I'm gonna have to connect to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u55	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my written question, thanking you for taking this fund very seriously, which has not been achieved by some of your predecessors. I want you to know that I'm counting on you to work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u56	Several times I've asked you about it. The border communes, their representatives, managers, agents and mayors want the current compensation mechanism to be maintained. Your last answer meets these wishes, and I am delighted. However, even if your wish is the status quo, your answers do not reveal anything about the position of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on this subject. Yet they will have the last word! Mr Minister, according to our information, the Grand Duchy of Luemburg has asked for the renegotiation of the Belgian-Luxembourg agreement on financial compensation to the border communes. What exactly is this "renegotiation", how is it organized, planned? When is a result expected? What does the Grand Duchy expect from this renegotiation? What do you think the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg intends to do about this? Consolidate the current mechanism or transform it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u57	Madam President, Mr Arens, you know that negotiations are currently under way between the competent administrations of the two countries. In view of the health crisis, the talks are organized by video conferencing. I hope that they can be completed as soon as possible. Since, during the negotiations, the positions of the parties are subject to compromise, no explanation can be given at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I am not surprised about. Indeed, before I decided to continue to ask you questions on a regular basis, I contacted the administration, which informed me that it was impossible for him to answer me. As the secretary of the Grande Région has told me recently, we fear a development such as that proposed with certain French regions which would put our communes financially in great difficulty. I therefore once again insist that the present system should be maintained. Remember that I invited you to visit our region, an invitation that I reiterate here. Be aware that some of your predecessors came to see us at the time of the fund's creation. Indeed, I was speaking every Thursday in plenary when Messrs. Philippe Maystadt and Jean-Jacques Viseur were ministers. In any case, it is worth listening to people and seeing how we work together in this region of South Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u59	I would like to add an element to that. The concern you have with regard to income is, of course, something that we also take into account in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u60	I refer to the written version of my question, since I have to be in another committee meeting by noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u61	The law on the reconstruction reserve was adopted in the committee on 10 July 2020 with a majority with the Flemish interest, thanks to our support, when there was no government at all. We therefore attach great importance to that law. It is an important recovery measure in the context of the corona crisis. The purpose of the measure is to strengthen the solvency and balance sheets of our companies through own capital building. For the Flemish Interest, it was not the author, but the content and the intended result. That is why we have explicitly approved the text on the reconstruction reserve in committee and in Parliament's plenary. The support of our companies is absolutely necessary. Graydon predicts an economic graveyard after corona. According to the company information office, no fewer than 50,000 previously healthy companies risk going bankrupt in Belgium over the next two to three years. That dramatic figure may be another understatement. In the long term, the toll can be much higher. Healthy companies can end up in trouble if a large part of their customers go bankrupt. This has a damaging impact on family incomes, employment and ultimately the lamentable finances of this structurally unhealthy country. Also for companies that survive and survive the crisis, a weakened solvency has serious consequences. It makes them vulnerable to hostile takeovers, possibly from abroad. This, too, could have a negative impact on employment in our country. Companies wishing to make use of the reconstruction reserve must meet a whole range of conditions. One of these important conditions is the maintenance of sufficient jobs. The Act provides that wage costs must be at least 85% of the corresponding figure in 2019. The maintenance of employment as a condition is in itself a legitimate condition, but there are still some concrete problems. Due to the long-term lockdown, both in 2020 and 2021, many companies have had to rely on the temporary unemployment scheme. For example, the catering industry closed last year from March to June and from October to 1 May of this year, when hopefully the sector may reopen. For 2020, it will be 160 days of mandatory closure due to the corona measures. That amounts to 44% of the year. For 2021, it is 120 days so far or 33% of the year. This means that companies operating in the most affected sectors such as the catering and event sectors, which are most in need of this measure today, will not be able to make use of it. That can't be the intention. Another problem is that because of the long-term temporary unemployment caused by the corona measures, many workers have now taken another job. Their former employers, often active in heavily affected sectors, may face a shortage of staff at the start-up. This shortage must be addressed at least temporarily by recourse to temporary agency work. However, those benefits do not count in the assessment of the employment condition. Mr Minister, are you prepared to delete the employment condition for the financial years with closing dates in 2020 and 2021? If no, are you prepared to accept employment rates on a pro rata basis for the financial years ending in 2020 and 2021, taking into account the mandatory closure as a result of the corona measures? When determining the employment condition, are you prepared to replace the labour cost criterion based on the profit and loss account with the criterion of full-time equivalents whereby employees and temporary workers are combined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u62	I note that the attack year 2022 is the first year for which the measures of the reconstruction reserve apply. It is therefore not the annual accounts closed in 2020, which will be taken into account in the assessment of the employment condition, but that closed at the earliest in 2021. The abolition of the employment condition for the tax year 2022 is not foreseen. Maintaining employment was just one of the objectives of the measure. It would therefore be counterproductive in relation to employment policies and economic interests in general to allow companies to create tax-free reserves if this were at the expense of jobs. Therefore, there is no proratation foreseen for the tax year 2022. Indeed, it is unlikely that a company that has to discharge a lot of staff due to the difficulties in 2021 would already be in the position of generating profits in the same year, which would then be able to tax exempt them through the reconstruction reserve. If a company were to generate profits in 2021, which are transferred to the reconstruction reserve and in the same year see its wage costs fall below the threshold of 85 %, I can clarify that, in the event of a decrease to, for example, 80% of the cost of labour, fixed at the balance sheet date of the financial year closed in 2019, the taxable take-back of the reconstruction reserve in 2021 of an amount equal to 5% of labour costs in 2019, the subsequent years that a reconstruction reserve can be built or built, cannot be repeated. A decrease in labour costs in the years thereafter to, for example, 70% of labour costs, fixed at the balance sheet date of the financial year closed in 2019, will give rise to a taxable reduction of the reconstruction reserve of an amount equal to 10% of labour costs in 2019, i.e. the difference between the wage costs in that year and the previously lowest threshold, which is 80% in that case. An adjustment to full-time equivalents is not desirable, as this would unnecessarily complicate the calculations and increase the control tasks of the administration. In addition, this would go against the spirit of the provision, which is just designed not to allow the reduction in wages expressed in monetary values to be eligible for the creation or maintenance of a tax-free reconstruction reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u63	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u64	Minister, I do not agree with your reasoning. A tree is indeed expected in the catering and events sector, once the measures are relaxed. Your other argument was that such a regulation would make the case unnecessarily complex, but that is also not true. It is simply a question of replacing a criterion from the profit and loss account with another criterion, also from the profit and loss account. I do not see any increased complexity when using full-time equivalents instead of the figure in the account 640 of the profit and loss account. The essence, as Prime Minister De Croo recently said in De Tijd, is that there is now a need for fiscal rest. He is right, because our companies now need a stable, but above all very clear financial framework. The law on the reconstruction reserve is currently not sufficiently clear. After all, you have just had to make a number of clarifications in your reply. The fact that questions are being asked today in Parliament also means that there is still uncertainty about the legislation. Many companies in the most affected sectors, in order not to mention the catering and event sectors, cannot meet the employment condition. After all, they will have to resort to temporary employment as a result of the departure of staff. However, this is not included in the reconstruction reserve. Today we are tabling a motion to improve the law on the reconstruction reserve. This is absolutely necessary in order to clarify the fiscal framework. First, we ask the government to remove the employment condition, for the sake of clarity for the financial years with closing dates in 2020 and 2021. Secondly, we ask that the criterion of wage costs based on the profit and loss account be replaced by the criterion of full-time equivalents, so that employees and temporary workers are combined. That will be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u65	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Vermeersch and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Wouter Vermeersch and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, - having regard to the Law of 19 November 2020 establishing a company reconstruction reserve (Belgian Official Journal of 1 December 2020) which adds a new Article 194quater/1 to the WIB 92; - having regard to the conditions of employment (Art. 194quater/1, § 5, 4°) which provides that the salary cost included under heading 620 "Remunerations and direct social benefits' shall be at least 85% of the salary cost at the closing date of financial year 2019; - whereas many firms in the most affected sectors are unable to meet this employment condition; - whereas a large number of undertakings, due to the departure of staff, will have to apply for temporary employment which is not booked under item 620 and therefore does not fulfil the employment condition; calls on the Government - delete the employment condition provided for in Article 194quater/1, § 5, 4° for the financial years ending in 2020 and 2021; - replace the criterion of wage cost under heading 620 "Remunerations and direct social benefits" by the criterion of "FTE" (the number of employees in total full-time equivalents). For the purpose of calculating the "FTE" the working days of its own staff and temporary workers shall be aggregated." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Vermeersch and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Wouter Vermeersch and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, - having regard to the Act of 19 November 2020 introducing a Replenishment Reserve for Companies (Moniteurbelge of 1 December 2020), which introduces a new Article 194quater/1 into IARC 92; - having regard to the condition of employment (art. 194quater/1, § 5, 4°) which provides that the wage cost referred to under item 620 "Direct earnings and benefits" must be at least equal to 85% of the wage cost at the end of the 2019 financial year; Whereas it is impossible for many firms in the affected sectors to meet this condition of employment; - Whereas, owing to staff departures, many firms will have to resort to temporary employment which is not accounted for under item 620 and therefore does not satisfy the condition of employment; asks the government - to abolish the condition of employment provided for in Article 194quater/1, § 5, 4° for financial years with closing dates in 2020 and 2021; - replace the wage cost criterion on the basis of item 620 "Direct earnings and benefits" with the "FTE" criterion (the number of full-time equivalents). For the calculation of the FTE, the working days of the employees belonging to the enterprise itself and those of the temporary staff shall be added together." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Steven Matheï. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Steven Mathei. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u66	Madam President, here again I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u67	The law of 11 April 1994 provides, I quote: 'any correspondence based on a federal administrative authority shall state the name, capacity, address and telephone number of the person who can provide more information on the file'. All letters must therefore state the contact details of an official who is able to provide information on the file, but not necessarily that of the file manager. At the FPS Finance Office, officials of the Contact Centre are responsible for providing information to the citizen. However, the operation of a call centre means that the FPS Finance cannot determine in advance which official will answer which call. It is therefore not possible to provide the exact contact details of an official. For the services of the General Administrations, files are no longer assigned by name to a person, but according to the logic that is based on a task package. Of course, this new way of distributing the work has a number of important advantages. For example, a file can be processed by the staff of a service so that the work does not stop if the investigating official happens to be absent. This approach was designed precisely to increase telephone availability, to provide quality telephone services, i.e. a service between 8.30 and 17 hours, and to provide an answer during the first contact with, if necessary, a referral to an expert. The Federal Ministry of Finance complies with the Law of 11 April 1994 on Public Administration, since the citizen can reach an official who is able to provide him or her with more information on a file whenever the citizen considers it necessary. Taking into account the answers to the previous questions, I therefore believe that no action is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u68	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u69	Madam Chair, one of the two questions – which are, in fact, identical – was first asked of Minister Wilmès, who referred me to the Minister of Finance. Mr Minister, at the beginning of February, talks between the Luxembourg, Dutch and Belgian parliamentarians in the Benelux Parliament were aimed at raising the threshold for teleworking days for frontier workers. The goal was to double the number of days, from 24 to 48. In this way, these workers could pursue their professional activity outside the country where the company is based, while ensuring that they remain under the tax system of the same State. Such an idea has many beneficial aspects, since it would help to better reconcile private and professional life and to reduce congestion in the road network. In fact, the measure could reduce the carbon footprint by reducing the production of greenhouse gases and promote consumption close to home, co-working spaces, etc. However, this increase in the threshold does not go without asking the question of the gain for the Belgian tax authorities. Indeed, it would seem fair that it is accompanied by a compensation measure. That is why the idea of creating a bilateral fund between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which would reserve part of the tax levied on the telework of Belgian workers working in the Grand Duchy, seems to be a justified solution, since it would make it possible to find a real win-win logic. These would be bilateral funds fed and managed jointly, aimed at making our country's cross-border territory more attractive. Such a proposal is part of a logic of cross-border co-development, which may promote more mobility projects, of course, but also go much further in the areas of training, health, spatial planning, through communal facilities or areas of shared economic activity. Minister, what do you think of the establishment of a co-development fund between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? In the light of the facts mentioned above, do you consider such an arrangement to be relevant? Given that the number of days of telework may increase, what does a proposal for levying part of the tax on such a co-development fund, which could develop projects beneficial to both countries, inspire?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u70	Mrs Hanus, I recently instructed my administration to resume negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with a view to finding a long-term solution for telework. Unfortunately, given the confidential nature of the negotiations, I cannot provide you with any further details on this subject. But the creation of a bilateral fund between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg can of course be discussed on this occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u71	Minister, thank you. I must say that in my personal capacity, for the very innovative nature of this idea of co-development funds, I did not necessarily expect a more positive or more concrete response today. But that you can hear this type of project in negotiations with the Grand Duchy seems to me quite appropriate. I will not hesitate to forward to your office the political notes we have already written on this subject in order to feed into the discussions with our Grand-Ducal counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Buyst's 55015645C is hereby repealed. Debates of the European Parliament 55015808C by Mrs Pas is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u73	Madam President, the government is currently working on implementing this point in the government agreement, namely to achieve zero carbon emissions for new commercial vehicles from 2026. After discussion at government level, the intention is to submit a draft law. In the meantime, I cannot go into the details of the measures. The reform is, of course, not a pre-down on the broad fiscal reform, including a more guiding policy to achieve climate objectives within the framework of the climate plan. Just as other government members are involved in the drafting of tax legislation, my cabinet and myself are currently involved in the design of the climate plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u74	Madam President, Minister, I would also have liked to have a specific timing because there is also a timing in the government agreement for 2021. I'm just gonna sit there a little bit hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u75	Your question relates to rental agreements that are optionally subject to VAT. In that case, a taxable landlord would normally have to make a revision of the deduction received if, during the review period, he used the building partially or entirely for transactions that do not confer a right to deduct. The free provision of buildings is, in principle, regarded as an act which does not confer the right to deduct. In the case of a rental contract, the tenant is periodically held to pay rental fees. Where the parties to the performance of the rental contract agree that the tenant has been temporarily relieved of the payment of rental fees, the administration generally assumes that there is a price reduction or a discount on the rental price and that this is not a free posting. In the event of a price reduction or a discount, the landlord will therefore not be obliged to make a review of the deduction of input tax received. The above principles apply not only to the measures taken under the COOVID-19 pandemic, but also to cases of reduction or remission of rent, provided that it appears that the contract is concluded for consideration. The temporary free provision of a building or part of a building in connection with the execution of a rental contract is therefore generally regarded by the administration as a reduction in prices or a reduction in the rental price and not as a free posting. The landlord should not revise the deducted VAT for the benefit of the Treasury if, in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, he cancels the rent for a few months in order to support the tenant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u76	I thank the Minister for his clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u77	Minister, in Flanders, three zones have been recognised as dislocated areas: Limburg, the Kempen and the region around Zaventem and Vilvoorde. These areas are subject to a specific regime which you know and which I will not go into in detail. Unfortunately, the deadline for aid to Limburg and Kempen expires on 30 April. That's very soon. During the Committee on 10 March, you indicated that you would have a meeting with the Flemish Region on 18 March. What is the outcome of this consultation? Since the aid measure is due to expire, a rapid decision is desirable. Do you think it would be a good idea to extend the current measure by 18 months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u78	I would like to join my colleague's question on the destabilized zones. Limburg was recognised as a dislocated zone in 2015, but that period is now coming to an end. This subject has been raised several times in this committee. In October last year it would be considered whether an extension was possible. Two months ago, it was pointed out that this problem could not be considered separately from a major revival, nor without consultation with the Länder. Now we hear that the Flemish Government has asked for the scheme to be extended for 18 months, including as regards Limburg. Can you clarify whether Flanders has effectively asked that question and whether it is possible to extend the dislocated zones by 18 months after April 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u79	Indeed, there has been a consultation with the Regions on the extension or adjustment of the aid measure for disturbed zones. Taking into account the new economic reality created by the COVID-19 pandemic and Brexit, a Region expressed its wish to extend the duration of the existing assisted areas by 18 months. The representatives of the other regions have also expressed their agreement. In view of the particular circumstances since March 2020 which represent a form of economic stagnation, the extensive possibilities for technical unemployment and the explicit question of the Region, supported by the other Regions, I will refer the request for an exceptional extension of the existing aid zones to my colleagues from the Federal Government in the very short term. It has to be assumed that since the beginning of last year the companies have not been able to realise the investment in question, which was calculated on the basis of the aid granted by the measure. Consideration should be given to providing them with sufficient time to carry out their investments with the same parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u80	Minister, I understand that there is a broad consensus in the discussions with the other regions on the extension of the current measure for 18 months. I also understand that you will consult with your colleagues from the federal government in the near future. However, I would urge you to put your full weight into pulling your colleagues over the bridge. So you can come to Parliament very quickly with a concrete draft. As I said, 30 April 2021 is no longer this far. At least your answer was hopeful. I hope you can do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u81	Mr Minister, the economic situation in the disturbed zones has not improved with Corona and Brexit. It would be very welcome to extend the support measures for the destabilized areas. Since the Flemish Region, as well as the other Regions, are asking for the measures to be extended, you can expect all the support from our group. We hope that you will also be able to convince colleagues in the government to continue this much-needed measure for the economy. Thank you for your reply and your efforts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u82	Mr Minister, I have a question about the bank guarantee, the so-called bazooka, which apparently has not been launched. I refer to my written question and look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u83	Mr Minister, in order for the other Members to know what this is about and out of solidarity with you, who must read out every answer, I will ask the question orally. The second State guarantee entered into force in July 2020. The cost of the borrower to the State is 50 basis points for loans up to three years and 100 basis points for loans between three and five years. The maximum nominal interest rate that creditors can charge for guaranteed loans is therefore 2% and 2.5 % respectively. Now it has been reported to me that someone has concluded a EUR 250 000 loan under state guarantee with a maturity of five years. The borrower claims that the entire remuneration due to the State was withdrawn from the current account at once and was paid to the State. In addition, higher file costs would also be charged, i.e. EUR 500 instead of the usual EUR 250. The legislation governing the State guarantee does not impose a ceiling on the costs of the file. If the notification would reflect the usual practice, it would appear that some creditors are at least partly trying to circumvent the maximum interest rate through higher file costs. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, do you know of higher file costs for loans under state guarantee? Is the increase justified by higher costs in practice? Secondly, do you think it can be fair to charge the file costs, so that they correspond in any case to the costs incurred and the maximum interest rate is not bypassed? Thirdly, today, banks can offset the remuneration due for the State guarantee as an additional interest on the principal amount or as part of the loan amount. In the latter case, the creditor shall also levy interest on the remuneration due. Do you think that the borrower should always have the right to pay the remuneration in the form of an increased interest rate, which is in total cheaper and more predictable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u84	Mrs Matz, you have the floor and, fortunately, you do not drive. So it's perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u85	No, Madam President! I am glad that you saw him because I had a comment from one of my Ecolo colleagues at a previous meeting that highlighted the fact that I was driving. I didn't see how to drive and ask questions at the same time. All right! Still, I never drive. I refer to my question written out of solidarity, given the number of questions on the agenda this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u86	It's very elegant of you. Thank you, Mrs. Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u87	Colleagues, when calculating the premium to be charged for obtaining a State guarantee, the federal government should follow the guidelines set out by the European Commission in the Temporary Framework for State aid to support the economy due to the current COOVID-19 outbreak. The framework lays down, inter alia, the minimum guarantee premiums to be charged for a guaranteed loan. This results in a premium of 1% or 100 basis points per year for an SME with a maturity of five years. The modalities for the payment of that premium are further developed in the Law of 20 July 2020, which introduced State guarantee 2. The State guarantee premium shall be paid in accordance with the law in its entirety. Therefore, it is common for banks to make the premium pay upfront and not spread its payment over the duration of the credit. This corresponds to the usual method of paying the fee for guarantee schemes. In accordance with the Royal Decree of 24 December 2020, the global premium shall be calculated on 30 March 2021 by the Treasury for the loan portfolio as constituted on 31 December 2020. Since the extension of the guaranteed appropriations after 31 December 2020, the premium for the following credits shall be calculated three months after the end of the additional period. So that's September 30, 2021. The bank is at risk if the premium is not collected immediately from the customer, since the fee is due to the State by the bank anyway, even if it would later prove that the borrower is unable to pay it. The undertaking applying for the loan may itself take into account the amount of the premium in the cash flow plan it submits to its bank in order to justify the amount of the loan with the State guarantee, i.e. the bank may itself co-finance the amount of the premium. The SME Financing Act also provides for an information document to be provided at the time of a credit offer to an undertaking when providing the credit agreement. That information document should include all costs, including the premium to be charged for the State guarantee and the file costs. The level of file costs is part of each individual bank's policy. According to Febelfin, however, an investigation carried out with the largest banks shows that they do not charge file charges which differ according to whether a credit with or without a State guarantee is involved. Moreover, it appears that these banks have not substantially increased their file costs recently. The Law of 20 June 2020 ensures that the State guarantee does not cover losses incurred on the guaranteed loans for which the creditor charges the borrower for the granting or execution of the loan costs that would not have been due on the basis of the creditor's general terms and conditions on 29 February 2020. The State guarantee scheme therefore provides that the banks are under no circumstances justified in treating the borrowers covered by the guarantee in a separate and more expensive manner. Finally, I am not aware of the particular circumstances in which the banks executed the mortgage warrants issued by the companies mentioned. In general, banks must be sufficiently cautious and secure guarantees for their loans, including mortgages. These reduce not only the financial risk incurred by the lending bank, but also the risks incurred by the Belgian State as guarantor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which was very clear on a number of points. We'll take the information and keep following up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that interest rates and the number of basis points have been set at European level. I take note of that and we will take that into account. However, you also say that Febelfin has no knowledge of the fact that banks substantially increase their file costs. That contradicts the testimonies that reached us. We shall therefore look into this very carefully. I know that the government is making a great deal of effort to make good deals with the banking sector. That applies to you in particular. Moreover, it is impossible to track and monitor all individual transactions. That is why it is important that citizens continue to send their testimonies. Evaluations can take place and feedback can be given. Ecolo-Green will continue to monitor the case and report irregularities. If there is a trend, you will probably have to sit around the table with the sector again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u90	Minister, thank you. As far as the state of affairs is concerned, I do confirm that it is not quite the echoes we have in relation to the increase in a number of charges. We will investigate a little more about what you have just said and the situations that have been submitted to us. However, we have to see the banks' chilliness to intervene and now their tendency to generate additional costs; this is really getting very heavy, if I may say so. Perhaps you will at some point be led to put yourself back around the table to make the big finger on those banks that objectively abuse their power at times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u91	It's an expression, minister, to tell the banks that it's not right. We can also make big eyes! Let's move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u92	Madam President, Mr Segers, according to the figures from the annual report of the port of Antwerp, there was an increase of 27% between 2015 and 2020 for container traffic with South America. How many of the containers from South America were scanned, I cannot tell you, as there are no separate scans per continent. Indeed, the lower control figures for 2020 are mainly due to the corona measures that the staff had to respect. The decrease in the number of controlled containers in 2019 compared to 2015 is mainly linked to the development of our risk management system. All customs declarations are subject to risk analysis, which means that much more targeted checks and scans can be carried out. As far as the outlook is concerned, it remains the intention for 2021 to fully focus on a strong risk analysis. On top of that, the aim is to systematically increase the number of scanned risk containers. In 2018, 174 files were started because the container was selected for scanning, with a collection of 395,250 euros. In 2019 these were 99 files, with a collection of 385,250 euros and in 2020 they were 106 files, with a collection of 535,000 euros. Whether a fine for that kind of fact is enough as a deterrent, my services are looking at it. In any case, as much as possible is used to prevent containers from disappearing. A scanning rate of 100 % of the risk containers should be possible in the long term if we systematically build up our control capacities. The customs administration, together with external partners, investigates how many container scanners are effectively needed for this purpose. There is currently a public contract pending the delivery of two additional backscatters in September of this year. Furthermore, customs already have five mobile container can systems in place in all Belgian ports as required. The project 100 % scanning consists of several subprojects. In addition to scanning equipment, there is investment in technologies such as spectroscopy and spectrometry-based analysis and detection equipment and technical means for carrying out electronic monitoring. As part of the Sky operation, customs will, of course, also fully deploy to check all suspicious containers. If there are additional staff requirements, this will be reviewed. Finally, you also asked a question about access to databases. As far as applications and data are concerned, accesses are granted on the basis of the functions and functional needs of the persons in their service. Subsequently, the application's audit logs allow to investigate anomalies. Those audit logs shall store, when, in which file, which data has consulted, modified, created or deleted. A specific internal procedure is provided to consult these logs. I believe I have answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u93	Mr Minister, the written question I referred to was tabled for Operation Sky, but the answer has, of course, become all the more topical as a result of that operation. I found it disturbing that the share of the controlled containers seemed to decrease, especially in the light of the target of scanning 100 %. What are the risk containers? If I have heard it correctly, there are actually no separate figures for South America, for example. That was not entirely clear to me and I will therefore put forward an additional question. I would also like to thank you for the comprehensive answer and for your commitment to scanning 100 % of the risk containers. The databases also need to be properly screened and the searches monitored, especially in view of the large sums of money paid to get information in drug investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u94	Mr. Chair, Minister, it has recently come back to me that the General Administration of Customs and Excise (AGDA) was planning to relocate some of its services, currently located in the Charleroi region, to merge them with the services of the Mons region. These include the Customs Research Department in Charleroi. For my part, I wonder whether this relocation is justified and opportune. The Research Department deals with essential matters both for the Carolo region and for Belgium as a whole, in particular in the case of large-scale fraud cases involving goods such as alcohol or tobacco, drug trafficking and illegal manufacture of counterfeit cigarettes. These illegal activities obviously have a negative impact on the region – whether in terms of impact on local traders or in terms of public health, since we are obviously talking about drug trafficking – not to mention the loss of profits for public finances in respect of customs duties, excise duties or VAT evaded through these frauds. Moreover, this decision seems not understandable to Walloon customs officers who fear that it will complicate their work on the ground. There are currently four research departments in Wallonia: one in Mons, one in Charleroi, one in Liège and one in Bierset. In addition to the merger of the services of Mons and Charleroi, AGDA also intends to merge those of Liège and Bierset, which would further reduce the number of these services to two for the whole of Wallonia. By comparison, there are five in Flanders and one in the Brussels Region. Worse still, we are told that this new Charleroi-Mons cell would be further reduced in terms of numbers and thus could not carry out all its missions. Mr Minister, in view of the potential negative consequences of this relocation on the Charleroi region and on the Belgian State and the doubts expressed as to its effectiveness, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the reasons for AGDA's merger? What comparison can be made with respect to Flanders? Why is it felt that this will work better than in Flanders? Knowing that Charleroi counts the country's second airport on its territory, do you not think it is important for the region to include a customs search service within it? Finally, is this merger still reversible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u95	Madam President, Mr Bayet, the decision to merge the currently 5-member Charleroi Research Inspectorate with the currently 16-member Mons Research Inspectorate has already been taken. By doing so, it creates a larger Research Inspection to cover the entire region. Gosselies Airport, unlike Bierset Airport, is not an airport dedicated to freight traffic. In view of the significant economic development at the Bierset airport and the significant increase in the number of customs declarations lodged, mainly linked to the associated e-commerce, the Research Administration plans to considerably increase its staff in the Liège region. Taking into account, on the one hand, the fact that the Research Administration finds itself obliged to concentrate its efforts in the Liège region and, on the other hand, that it is necessary for a Research Service to bring together a minimum of 15 colleagues in order to be fully operational, it therefore becomes essential in order to achieve this objective to abolish the Charleroi Research Services and to concentrate all forces in the same place, namely Mons. It should also be noted that the Liège Research Inspectorate, currently composed of 19 people, and the Bierset Research Inspectorate, currently composed of 15 people, will be merged into a large Liège Research Inspectorate with a single head of department, while retaining the two geographical places.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which unfortunately does not satisfy me completely, even if I understand that in Liège there are more goods passing through. Still, there are ten million passengers in Charleroi at cruising speed. The various analyses at our disposal show that a whole series of drug problems and trafficking of all kinds exist. Secondly, if the merger of our research services is really effective, it means that the same thing should be done on the Flemish side and that it should be done from five to two. I will therefore come back with a series of questions aimed at making comparisons, to see what is best in the interests of our customs officers and the efficiency of services. In fact, centralization does not always have the desired results. Allow me, Madam President, as my colleagues have done and to save time, I propose that my question no 55016008C be turned into a written question if the minister agrees and close by asking my last question with colleague Joris Vandenbroucke, in order to save everyone time, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u97	Minister, for the past few weeks, my group has been asking you about the issue of the temporary unemployment benefit. This affects thousands of people. In view of the contradictory information in the press, you understand how essential it is to tell our fellow citizens the truth. Small retroact: At the beginning of the covid crisis, it was decided, particularly under the impetus of the Socialist Party, to reduce the pre-payment linked to temporary unemployment to 15%, with the aim of immediately giving oxygen to the hundreds of thousands of households affected by the crisis. It was decided at the time that this discount would not be released. When asked last week in plenary, you said that the social secretariats had made their own evaluations and that the impact, mainly on low wages, was not negative. This is fundamental since the measure was not taken in order to be an advance which would be compensated by a recovery for the State at the time of the warning-extract. Minister, I would like you to clarify your statement when you say that the measure does not negatively affect low wages. Does the tax administration, like the social secretariats, have refined figures? What will be the real impact of this measure on low and medium wages in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u98	Madam President, Mr Bayet has outlined the problem very well. I shall therefore confine myself to a reference to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u99	We are of course aware of the interest in this problem. The occupational discount rate was reduced from 26.75 % in May 2020 to 15 % in the case of temporary unemployment benefits. As I have already mentioned in plenary and in the Finance Committee, between May and December 2020, 1.16 million taxpayers received temporary unemployment benefits. I would like to point out that not all the taxpayers concerned pay any additional taxes on the income of natural persons following the application of the measures taken at the level of professional discount. In other words, the reduction in the discount is totally neutral in terms of overall taxation. As I have said before, the withholding tax is a prepayment of the tax ultimately due and is therefore also deducted from it. I have therefore clearly reiterated in plenary that the measure is broadly neutral in terms of taxation. In that sense, therefore, there are no additional taxes due, but I have already indicated that, as a result of the reduction in the withholding tax, it is possible for the taxable persons concerned to pay a higher amount or to recover a lower amount when collecting the personal income tax. However, we cannot say this with certainty now, since it will only be clear to the taxable persons concerned at the time of the collection of their tax returns. In any case, I can be clear about the FGTB's assertion that all the taxpayers concerned will be faced with a tax supplement of around EUR 1,000 to 1,500. That statement is not correct and must also be thoroughly nuanced. That is also what I said in plenary last week and it is supported by the calculation of the social secretariats that have already been communicated in response to the FGTB message. I refer, among other things, to an interview in De Oordend on Radio 1 with a social secretariat. In any case, I intend to communicate with my administration proactively with the necessary data shortly. After all, I intend to inform the taxable persons concerned correctly about this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u100	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer because 1.16 million people are involved. This subject is therefore very important to them. You confirm that this reform is fiscally totally neutral, that no additional taxes will be applied for low and medium wages. For our fellow citizens, this information is important. I urge you to communicate and continue along this path as well as to make useful contacts with trade unions and social secretariats that do not have the same information. It is really important for our fellow citizens to know that we are at their side and that there is no tax hidden behind this new measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. It is very important that people are reassured and that they are not simply saddled with additional financial concerns in times of crisis. However, I fear that the soothing words are not enough. It's necessary to convince people with hard grades. I am very pleased that you will soon be proactively communicating with the figures in hand. In my question I also asked for the figures. With Vooruit, because we have had so many questions about this, we have calculated a lot of scenarios ourselves. In addition, we found that almost no one will have to pay any additional payments and that the additional payments made by people on higher wages are very limited. If possible, I'd be happy to provide you with those calculations to have them confirmed by your records.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u102	Courage! We still have a few questions! Some defer or transform their oral questions into written questions, as does Mr Bacquelaine for his question No 55016105C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u103	Madam President, I would like to answer Mr Matheï's three questions, but I would like to stop the sitting because I have other obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u104	No problem. I fully understand your question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 55016085C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u105	Minister, in January we adopted a draft law on the dematerialisation of relations between the FPS and citizens and non-profit organisations and businesses. Pursuant to that law, the time limit for the declaration shall be fixed, without any doubt, not later than 7 months after the end of the financial year. This is very transparent and very clear and corresponds to a number of other obligations that non-profit organisations and companies have, for example, the submission of annual accounts. That is a very clear line. Of course, it presupposes that the tax return for non-profit organisations, for example, can also be effective through the Biztax platform. So that platform has to be ready to file a report. On 18 March, a notice was published from the FPS Finance Administration that a delay would be granted to, for example, non-profit organisations that are required to file the legal persons tax, the financial year ending at the end of the year. That would therefore not be at the latest seven months after the end of July, but at the end of October. Why was it granted a reprieve? Is it still possible to make the report within the time limit? In other words, is the platform Biztax ready to report? Is it intended to allow each extension or to comply with the seven months after the end of the financial year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u106	As indicated in my policy paper, I invest in sustainable cooperation between my administration and the Institute of Tax Administrators and Accountants, the ITAA. In the light of the particular circumstances of the COVID-19 crisis, it was extended until 28 October 2021, in consultation with the IAA. The delay has no impact on the start of Biztax. The start date of Biztax is scheduled for early June 2021, so that the declaration of the legal person tax can take place from then on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. I have no problem with delay until the start is left and the non-profit organisations and companies that want to report within the time limit have that possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u108	Minister, the patrimony tax is a tax on the possessions of non-profit organisations, the deadline of which is 31 March. The submission is usually made after a letter from the administration to the non-profit organisations to make a declaration. I have two very specific questions about this. Should the declaration of the patrimony tax in which the assets of the non-profit association are listed also mention the insurance policies on the assets? The invitation letter to submit the patrimony tax now contains an obligation for non-profit organisations that have assets with a value of less than 25,000 euros and therefore do not actually have to pay a fee to send the inventory of their assets as an annex. Is there a legal basis for that? Is that really mandatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u109	Mr Matheï, only if the physical movable property of the non-profit association is insured against fire, theft or any other risk must be reported in the declaration of all policies in force on 1 January at 0 o'clock, the name or firm and the address of the insurer, the date of the policy and his number as well as the insured goods and the insured value. Furthermore, the providers must expressly confirm that the goods are not the subject of other policies as they know. If the goods in question were not insured for that purpose at the time mentioned above, the exporters must expressly confirm this in the declaration. The addition of the state of assets from the annual accounts of the non-profit organisation is not required. It was the legislator's intention to tax only those goods of the association which are of a lasting and lasting nature. The cash and operating capital normally intended to be consumed during the financial year for the activities of the association shall indeed be excluded from the taxable mass pursuant to Article 150, second paragraph, third paragraph of the Code of inheritance tax. In fact, this is the cash supply necessary to meet the daily and immediate needs or at least those of the near future within the financial year, for example, balances on a current account arising from net income arising from an event organised by the non-profit organisation, member funds or a grant which the non-profit organisation acquires and which it uses each time within the financial year to finance activities organised within its social purpose. It is true that this requires a factual assessment. I also refer to the answer to a question from Senator Bock of 19 November 1982. I can give you a reference to that question. The FPS Finance is working on the digitisation of this declaration within a modernisation project launched at the beginning of this year. The declaration will be submitted via a digital declaration form, available in the MyMinfin electronic portal, presumably from the 2023 declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed and clear answer, especially with regard to insurance policy. The state of capital is therefore not required. The steps taken to further digitisation can also be welcomed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u111	Mr Minister, if non-profit organisations, non-profit organisations and foundations with directors of foreign nationality wish to open an account with a bank or financial institution, they are obliged to take into account a number of matters, in any case the obligations relating to money laundering and the UBO register, but also the FATCA or the rules governing the transmission and exchange of information of American citizens. In practice, it is found that many foundations, non-profit organisations and non-profit organisations, where American citizens are directors, do not have an account or are no longer held by the financial institutions. Are you aware of that? Are there certain legal provisions around the UBO register and the FATCA on which one can rely to actually refuse accounts when US citizens are drivers in one of the legal entities I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u112	Mr Matheï, the problem to which you refer in your question is, of course, well known to my administration, but you can understand that most dossiers are complex and cannot be judged on one element. The decision to refuse the opening of a bank account is a commercial decision of the financial institution. However, such a decision must be made in accordance with the legal rules in force. In this context, I would like to emphasise that consumers have the right to open a bank account with basic functions at a financial institution. That basic right arises from the European Directive 2014/92 which guarantees access to bank accounts with basic functions. Until now, the law applies only to natural persons under certain conditions. Very soon, legal entities will also be able to enjoy a similar right to basic banking services. I refer to the law of 8 November 2020 introducing basic banking services for businesses. That law shall enter into force normally from 1 May 2021. In concrete terms, financial institutions are required to respond to a request to open a bank account with basic functions, unless a ground for refusal applies. However, the mere application of the FATCA rules is no reason to refuse the opening of a bank account or to close or block an account. Therefore, that same law provides for an obligation to state reasons when refusing an application for the opening of payment services, as well as an obligation to provide information on complaints and out-of-court review procedures open to the undertaking to challenge that decision. In this way, the parties concerned and the supervisors will be able to determine whether or not the grounds for refusal constitute discrimination on the basis of nationality, residence or any other element.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u113	Thank you for your clear answer. Then we can leave it at that as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u114	Mr Van Hees, as I have already had the opportunity to say, the Minister of Finance has obligations and must leave us. We therefore turn to item 36 of the agenda. I would point out that Mrs Nathalie Muylle turned her question No 55016085C into a written question. Other colleagues have done the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u115	I heard that the minister still wanted to answer Mr Mathei's questions and then leave. I find this a pity because there are only a few ten questions left. He could have answered it. I would remind you that rule 127 provides that at least once a week, the Minister will respond to oral questions. The last time he came was March 10, 2021, if I'm not mistaken. After two weeks of vacation. I hope that he will respond quickly to the remaining questions as well as to the news. May he increase his response rate if he cannot stay for more than two and a half hours! I really find it a shame that he's leaving now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u116	I have offered to be present this afternoon, but that was not possible as a result of a decision by the Conference of Presidents. In the afternoon I usually have more time, but now I have an appointment at 12:30. You will understand that I would like to keep to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic433x.u117	There you are, Mr. Van Hees, you have received your explanation. We were as fast as possible. That will be the case.
