ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very sad story that the one who for several days deprived of liberty a young Congolese man who had come to study and had the right papers. Last June, he was accepted as a Bachelor of Economics at UCL. He had a student visa. Secretary of State, we both know that these are documents that are not distributed as candies by our country, in the same way that UCL is a serious university that does not accept any file. However, this young man was detained at the Caricole Closed Centre for several days on the basis of an evaluation of an airport police officer who asked him questions of general culture related to the diploma he was to obtain and which visibly resembled questions from Trivial Pursuit. I interviewed your services. I wrote to you. You responded fairly quickly that the elements of the file, according to the officers who had chosen them, justified these decisions. I find that this case, even though this young man was released for reasons that you may explain to us because they still seem mysterious, raises a number of questions. Do you confirm that Mr. Masudi Wasso was arrested and detained because he was unable to answer basic questions related to the bachelor's degree in which he was enrolled? If so, what defines a basic question? Is this practice commonly used by border police? Were there any precedents of this kind in other cases? Do you find it normal that a general culture questionnaire and the final opinion of an airport agent are sufficient to destroy documents as serious as a student visa, even if we know that it is only an authorization to report at the border, and only a pre-registration at the university? Do you find it normal that the person concerned was subjected to two attempts to expel him before the Office for Foreigners had had all the information available to verify the reality of his registration, which would have come from UCL and proof of payment from the Congo? Are there any precedents of students who have been refused a visa but have been granted a visa? In general, do you learn a particular lesson from this episode in changing future practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am not going to refer to my written question because I had the pleasure - or the astonishment - of hearing you this morning on the radio. The framework is known, so I'm not going to repeat the story. However, the first element that strikes is, on the one hand, the deprivation of liberty and, on the other hand, two or even three attempts to expel a student candidate on whom it seems that the conditions of Article 58 of the Aliens Act - which refers to Directive (EU) 2016/801 - were respected. We have been told over the last few days that the police have considered, however, that Junior Masudi Wasso does not have academic abilities or, as you explained this morning, that 200 euros are missing to give a positive outcome to this young student's file. The least we can say is that there are a lot of things that raise questions about the situation of this young person. Is it up to the police to determine the academic capacity, when a serious university such as UCLouvain validates its registration, a fortiori in the context of positive exchanges between two countries, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Belgium? Is it logical for the administration to interpret specifically the conditions set out in section 58? On the other hand, I would also like to go back to the attempts to expel this young person. You will remember all our debates last June, since we had tabled amendments against the will of the entire government majority to remove the suspensive effect of removal measures. That would not have happened in that context. Finally, are other student candidates now being held in a closed centre? Are there similar reasons and is there not an obligation on your part to verify the review of all these files?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, in our country a young man is illegally imprisoned. There has been tremendous pressure on him to leave the country, while he met all the requirements to study here. What did that young man do? What was his crime? Was that perhaps from the fact that he was from Congo? Yesterday, 20-year-old Junior Masudi Wasso enforced his rights. After being locked up illegally for two weeks and having fought three times against expulsion attempts with all the psychological pressure involved, he was finally admitted to Belgian territory yesterday. It is a victory for him, his family, the movement against racism, thousands of students, rectors, lawyers and journalists. Because of their resistance and mobilization, they forced Junior's release. The petition that has been signed more than 15,000 times also deserves to be mentioned here. At the same time, the treatment of the young man shows an embarrassing reality for our country, in particular that Belgium does not guarantee the fundamental rights of people and that a civil movement is needed to ensure that our State respects those rights. The case of Junior is not unique. In 2012 there was the Gladys Hernandez case. As with Junior, all her papers were in order, but still after a long interrogation in Zaventem she was refused, transferred to the closed center of Caricole and the appeal was immediately dismissed. She was finally expelled, with the difference that in her case no civil movement had begun to do so. There are many cases like Junior and Gladys, but usually they get little media attention. Junior's papers were all in order, but he was still refused, because the airport police ruled that he did not master the basic knowledge economy and chemistry. It's not up to her to judge that at all. At best, we are talking about arbitrariness here, in the worst case of targeted discrimination based on colour or nationality. The role of the Foreign Affairs Office is also anything but pure. Apparently, the explanation of the airport police has been accepted. Moreover, until last Sunday, the service continued to claim that Junior's documents were not entirely correct, even though the opposite was clearly demonstrated by the release of all documents, including to the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u4	Mrs Daems, please conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u5	The story of the responsible services hangs in the balance and you too do not escape all responsibility. For two weeks, you closed your eyes and accepted the course of events. You didn't do anything to fight the injustice against Junior, even after an official message from the Congolese President. Mr Secretary of State, what authority does the airport police base themselves on in assessing the scientific knowledge of persons arriving in our country? On what basis is access to the territory refused to persons holding all necessary documents, such as a valid visa, a passport and university approval? What authority in the airport police is responsible for the decision to deny access to the territory and to lock people in? Was DVZ aware of the concrete facts? On what basis does DVZ consider that the airport police are acting correctly? Finally, it is clear that there have been serious errors in the file, with traumatic consequences for the victim. This must not be allowed to go unpunished. Will you order an investigation to find those responsible and give them the necessary consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to respect the speaking time allowed, which is two minutes for an oral question. Mrs Daems, you spoke just four minutes, which is almost the speaking time for an interplay. If I deduct that excess from the speaking time for your reply, you will not have much left. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a topical debate. Members who wish to do so can join the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I have, of course, followed the issue very closely. I've been there a number of times. I remember a lot of commotion about a Moroccan professor, visiting professor at the ULB, who was also stopped on a Friday evening or Saturday. There was a big tumult, because he was meant to give a guest lecture, but he did not meet the entry conditions and there is no discussion about this. That was, of course, very difficult. He did not have a clear overnight ticket, for example no booking or reservation of a hotel room. I'll spare you the entire anecdote now. In private, we can exchange more anecdotes one day, because as Secretary of State in that department there is a lot going on. Especially if one has to guard the border, it is not obvious. In any case, I'm curious to hear your explanation. I hear semi-indications of racism and discrimination here. Maybe it's because he was Congolese that you're being asked. I really hope the questioner does not mean that, because that is really grotesque and insulting. I've been following the issue a little bit. Today I read in some newspapers that you were under diplomatic pressure and also experienced pressure from Minister Wilmès. Mr. Secretary of State, did Mrs. Wilmès or the Prime Minister call you? Have they put pressure on you to demand the release? Did you then call the Foreign Office to mean the release of that person? What just happened? Two or three times was tried to remove that person and I find it a little strange that that suddenly leads to a release.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, there are indeed many questions about the action of the aviation police in the case in question. On what basis was the decision taken not to allow the Congolese student to enter the territory, while all the documents were in order? We have read statements in the press and found that the Council of Foreign Ministers also confirmed the expulsion. The reasons for detention have, of course, been contested and, as previous speakers pointed out, there was protest from not least the UCL, who confirmed his registration and argued that the student should be admitted to our territory. He has been released and will be able to begin his studies. How do you reconcile his release with the earlier statements about his incarceration? Was his incarceration justified or not? Then I have more general questions. How do your services work with the aviation police? Is it indeed a task of the aviation police to assess the scientific knowledge of a student? We can question that. Following the decision of the aviation police itself, has DVZ started an investigation to determine what was specifically going on, which led to an incarceration? Then how did the person concerned get the release? How exactly did that go?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I suspect that you will be able to clarify the many questions that have already been asked and which I agree with. I do think that, in order to preserve it seriously, our committee should make a clear statement against the grotesque accusations to the services, both the Foreign Office and the police, that they would act on the basis of racism, that they would judge people from certain countries differently from people from other countries, that they would discriminate on the basis of origin or colour. That is indeed grotesque, as Mr Francken said. I think that we should make a clear statement against this. It is also implied that Belgium would not respect human rights, that human rights in this country would not be taken seriously. There are few countries on this beautiful globe that are as concerned with human rights as Belgium. So it is indeed very grotesque and I hope that you will be very clear about this. It is also important for the work of the committee that we all keep to speaking time somewhat sporty and collegial and do not double it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, 19 days of confinement, three attempts at expulsion. For who? For a twenty-year-old student, regularly enrolled in the Catholic University of Leuven, with a file in order. A university that clearly indicates that it is in the conditions under which it can take the courses. And an arbitrary application of our rules of law. This is called a failure in the management of a file. This is also called a lack of respect for the dignity of a human being. For what reasons should we be locked up for so long, when the case is in order? It also reflects a form of gender confusion. What empowers and authorizes police officers to pass an economy test and thus to verify the academic knowledge of someone who, however, is recognized as being capable of taking university courses, and not just any one? In short, Secretary of State, there is order in your administration. There is also an internal investigation to be conducted. You must be able to have a report that sheds light on the whole procedure, from the beginning to the end, from the moment this young person arrived in our territory until the moment he was finally released. We need clarity. As other colleagues have said, the question is whether we are dealing with an isolated case or whether it is a method that is widespread. In both cases, this is unacceptable anyway. One case is too much, but in a rule of law, in a democracy, when the rules are applied, they are applied without arbitraryity. Mr Secretary of State, I really believe that we must ensure that this does not happen again, and you must be able to tell us how you yourself will ensure that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As you know, it is my practice not to answer questions about individual files in compliance with data protection regulations. However, in this case, some clarifications need to be made. First of all, every year, 10,000 students from countries around the world come to study in Belgium. In doing so, it would be very complicated to process the files individually. But I'm glad to say that it's about 10,000 students. Every year there are 10,000 students on Belgian territory. I don't know everyone's exact skin color. They're just very diverse. A person may be denied access to the territory at the border on the basis of section 3, 3 of the Aliens Act. The border authorities have the power to refuse entry to an alien who cannot present the documents justifying the object and conditions of the intended stay. The mere possession of a D visa does not automatically mean that the entry conditions have been met or that the object of the trip has been demonstrated. In this case, the authorities considered that the person concerned had not submitted the documents necessary to justify the purpose and conditions of the intended stay. Therefore, holding a visa does not automatically give a right of entry into the territory. This principle has also been confirmed – and I am pleased that Mrs Platteau has made it clear – by the judgment of the Foreign Litigation Council which ruled on this case. Therefore, if I understand some of your questions, it's a little less so for others. I think we all agree that we live in a rule of law. When asked about the operation of the Aliens Office and questioned when the Litigation Council had confirmed the way in which the police and the Aliens Office had worked, I would like to ask myself whether we are actually in a State governed by the rule of law. The conditions of entry are therefore re-checked at border control. Depending on different factors, the competent services may consider that they are not fulfilled. Each dossier shall be examined separately and in accordance with its specific characteristics. There are no general instructions. The law is applied there. In case of doubt, the documents are analysed and questions are asked to the stranger. Such decisions are made on the basis of different elements. That goes for all of us. Mrs. Fonck, if you go to New York tomorrow for a convention or a tourist visit, you will be checked at the border. You will have a tourist visa and you will be able to return to the United States but we can ask you questions about why you are in the United States and you will have to answer them. It was only yesterday, October 4, 2021, that it was confirmed that the Congolese Foreign Minister guaranteed the payment of the student's registration fees. The UCL also provided additional information on the elements and how it assessed the student's ability and intention to study within the student. The Aliens Office will remain in contact with the UCL during the course of the student's career. With these new elements added to the file, the Aliens Office decided to allow access to the student's territory so that he could start his studies. In one of the documents provided, it was asked whether the student in question had paid for his registration. This was not the case, and the UCL then clarified that only part of the amount should be paid. This information is important in the context of the file. Finally, as regards the language in which the decision was written, since Zaventem Airport is located in the Flemish Region, the decision was written in Dutch in accordance with the Language Use Act. But the most important thing is that everyone can do is work. I am glad to know that every student who comes to Belgium can study there. You are aware of the reforms that this government has launched recently, including the fact that every student who completes his or her studies has the opportunity to look for a job for a year and that he or she is therefore not asked to return to his or her country. It is important to invest in our students but it is also important that the control be done. In this case, I deplore the fact that not all the necessary information was present. We live in a rule of law and when the Litigation Council states that the work has been done, who am I to say that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u12	Thank you, Secretary of State. I know that some people dream of politicizing the problem as much as possible, but try to get a little higher. There was a problem. If a young person spends two weeks in a closed centre at the age of twenty because he wants to come and study here, it's that there's obviously a problem. I don't know how this young man is; I'm going to try to have contact with him. But we can collectively recognize that someone who is granted a pass and who has spent two weeks in a closed centre – and we know what a closed centre is – will suffer from repercussions. It is clear that this is not the reception we had to give him. I hope we all agree on that. The problem is clearly between a university that says things are right for it, a visa that is granted, and a pass. Something's not working. If you specify that the UCL explained in a letter after that it was not necessary to complete the registration, but that part of it is that these data are not known by the agents responsible for verifying the truth of the story or the intentions of the young person who arrives. We need to dig and interview the right people. We must question, in particular, the border police. The fact that a minerval – since the UCL tells us that the registration was in order – which is not in order, can send someone two weeks to a closed centre... Secretary of State, do you know the number of students who are not in order of registration before January? This figure is huge and we're not going to send these young people to jail. I hope that will not be the case and I know that you agree with me. There's really a problem. As far as airport police are concerned, let's not do any generalities. This work is very complicated, but we have already had problems in other cases. Reports have been prepared. It might be interesting to see if the police are still comfortable with the procedures that are theirs. Do they have a list of questions on each theme (history, economy, biology, etc.)( )? That's pretty amazing. As far as the rule of law is concerned, I agree with you, but you also know that as Secretary of State, you have discretionary power for humanitarian visas and 9bis regulations. Rather than leaving a young person two weeks in this situation, it should have been said that, despite suspicions and problems, decisions had to be made more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u13	Secretary of State, if I can hear you well, basically, "Circulate, there's nothing to see!" I do not understand that you can tell us that everything happened normally in the case we are dealing with. We locked this young man up for two weeks. We tried to expel him twice, before considering that he could stay. So, for the same price, without wanting to make a bad pun, since the problem is reduced to a registration story, he could have been expelled while he was in possession of the good papers and entered into the conditions. This fact alone should challenge you much more! My colleague, Mr Laaouej, whose group belongs to your majority, speaks of a failure when, for your part, you do not consider that a problem has arisen, that a mistake or a mistake has been committed. Where does this strange presumption that a student is not a student come from? Where does this unbearable prejudice come from? Where does the idea come from that, finally, it is the partial payment that validates the intention to study? There is also the question of the credibility of our country. We all know that a visa is not enough, that it is only an authorization to come to the border. But it is the balance of the elements that justifies a stay. What else will a visa issued by our consular or diplomatic authorities be worth tomorrow? What else will a pre-registration in a university as prestigious as the Catholic University of Leuven be worth tomorrow? That is where the root of the problem lies, and your answers do not reassure me entirely, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u14	Secretary of State, 200 euros on one side, two weeks of confinement on the other. It was this amount that led one of our administrations to lock up a young student for more than two weeks. Do you not think that there is in the head of an administration a discretion which must incorporate the criterion of proportionality of acts of authority? What is the greatest act of authority to deprive a person of his freedom? I don't envy anyone the experience of being locked up even a day against his will. Do you not think that it is up to this administration to judge the proportionality between a file that may be incomplete, but that it would be very easy to complete, and to lock someone up for two weeks? That is the question, Secretary of State! This is where your administration needs to exercise a little more discernment. Indeed, it is disproportionate to lock a person up for more than two weeks because he would not have paid his minerval yet while his enrollment was admitted by the university. It is this lack of discernment that is very intriguing in this case. That is why I am not satisfied with the information you have given us on the basis of a so-called straight application of the rules, whereas they must be assessed in a way that incorporates the proportionality parameter. That's what's at stake here!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u15	Secretary of State, you're talking about the rule of law. I am also very clear on a rule of law. But, basically, how can we talk about the rule of law and say here that everything was perfect and well in order within your administration, when, twenty-four hours later, we are presented with a file that turns to 180 °? After a refusal and three attempts at expulsion, 200 euros later, we are told: "No, it's okay. Everything is in order." You will allow me to be astonished about the way in which section 58 of the Aliens Act is applied to all students who wish to stay for more than three months for study purposes and which sets out four criteria: not to represent a threat to public order, to present an enrollment in a school, to enjoy means of subsistence and not to represent a threat to public health. What, in this case, is this new criterion on academic abilities, since that is what has been put forward to justify the three attempts to expel? Yes, I am particularly interested in the interpretation of the law because a rule of law, Secretary of State, is crucial! But the rule of law, everyone must respect it – the State too – as regards the interpretation of law and laws. Finally, if I may, I will conclude by making a small point on the issue of expulsion. In the background, this young man could have already been expelled. In fact, your majority, including colleagues from the PS and Ecolo, amended the law in June 2021 by removing the suspensive effect of removal measures, and thus reducing the rights of foreign students. At the time, we had tabled amendments that you rejected, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. I hear a lot of speeches today, but that question came to the table at that time. It is therefore quite striking and hypocritical to hear you, a few months later, making great speeches here. Let us then review this legislation and allow student candidates to come to our home, all the more so in the context of collaborations between universities, as was the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, once again, your story is tied together. Junior's been locked up for two weeks. That's inhumane. Can you imagine how traumatic that is for someone? You get rid of it by saying there are rules in a country. You said that on the French-speaking radio this morning. That's right, there are rules in this country, but there are also human rights. That's exactly what you forgot. To be locked up for two weeks and three expulsion attempts to so to say check a payment? That has nothing to do with rules, Mr Secretary of State, but with a policy that wrongly criminalizes people. With regard to registration at the university, I read a statement this morning from the Vice-Rector Human Rights at the UCL. She says: "The student had made a proper payment of 200 euros in advance. For the rest of the registration fee he had until 1 February." That is a very common practice, Mr Secretary of State, but you continue to claim that the registration was not in order. That's unbelievable. I had also asked specific questions that you avoided. You don't seem to want to answer these. You choose to withhold information. Mr Secretary of State, too much has already been lied to by the authorities in this file. We want to see to the bone what mistakes have been made and who is responsible for them. We want full transparency on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u17	Mr President, I had also put a question on this yesterday, but something must have gone wrong. I am glad that it is a topical debate, which allows me to take the floor anyway. I'd like to do that, too, because I'm hearing things that I'm falling back on. I have heard these great principles so many times: l'État de droit, les droits des être humains, we know that. They're people, of course. Of course these people have rights. Of course we live in the rule of law. As the Secretary of State says, the rule of law is, of course, outlawed. Mrs. Fonck, your criticism is justified. The majority voted away a number of CdH amendments on the non-suspension of appeal procedures. I'm behind that. I voted it out, too. I voted in favour of Mr Mahdi's bill. However, this would not have made any difference here, because there was an appeal procedure. He wasn't sent back under the appeal procedure. He has simply been wronged and the Belgian State has been said right. That wouldn't have made a difference. You have made a strong point, but in this case it was not really applicable. I asked you if there was any pressure from Minister Wilmès' cabinet. I didn't get an answer to that. I can imagine that if even the President of Congo, our good friend Félix Tshisekedi, interferes. In substance, it is to your credit that you stand up for your police forces and the people of DVZ, Mr Secretary of State. I think that's good. I think it's important that you do that. I know this is being closely monitored. The administration is watching this broadcast massively. The police are also following this. After all, they want to see a member of the government running and defending their department. Migration is so sensitive that it is necessary. I thank you for that. I see the name of the person's attorneys. I read that he refused a corona test to be repatriated. That is an ever-increasing problem for you. He was wrong about the RV, but I also see that those people from the Communist Action Committee go so far. I know that. I've been there for years. They raided the passengers on the flight from Brussels to Kinshasa, so that there would be a rebellion on board. I actually think you should file a complaint and that DVZ should file a complaint against that committee, against that lawyer, against that NGO, for attempted sedition and rebellion on an international flight to Congo. You should. You must send a signal, not to the PS and Ecolo, but to the rule of law. We need to know what they're doing. It's done now, but I predict they'll continue until it gives you a stone head. Mark my words.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. You say that everyone can be denied access to the territory if they do not have the right papers or if the conditions are not met. This student had a visa D. I wonder if that's not enough? I assume that this visa was applied for and that it was checked at the time of its issue that the conditions were met. Otherwise, they will not give a visa to anyone. When that person arrives, there is a discussion about a part of the registration fee that had not been paid. Later it was confirmed that the agreement with the UCL was that this could be paid later. The question therefore arises as to why it took so long to clear things up. How is it that, at a time when there is doubt, contact with the educational institution is not made more quickly in order to verify that the conditions are met? After all, the fact is that the person concerned can continue his studies. If we look at it in retrospect, we see that the conditions were indeed fulfilled. You also note that there is no general instruction for the aviation police. That's the problem. There should be a framework so that in such cases it is known what should be done in case of doubt and what the steps are to ensure that the conditions are met. This responsibility lies with you, namely to give greater clarity and to provide a framework, so that, when detention is carried out, all the steps for verification have been taken. Nor can I get the impression that diplomatic pressure has been exerted. In addition, you could have performed earlier. If mistakes have been made in the case, we must admit them and rectify them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I must say something. Firstly, I submitted some 40 written questions during the summer period. The deadline for the replies expired on 4 October. I've seen some of them come in. In the course of the day, there may be another series coming in. Otherwise, I will turn it into oral questions. The deadline didn't start until September 1st. Thank you very much for the answers I have already received and I hope I can get the other answers today. Then I can do my job as an opposition member and control the government. Secondly, I saw, this morning, when I was on my way here, a Belga message appear about your distress campaign for secondary flows. I'm sorry about that. I have questions about that and they've been hanging for weeks. Mr Van Langenhove also had questions about it. I think the scoop is up to Parliament. I think you should keep an eye on that. We are going to make the effort to ask questions and to debate them with you. One debate is already going better than the other, but it is up to Parliament to get that scoop. I've already had to react through Belga. I'd have preferred it here. I will, but we must try to have the debate here in Parliament. It's good to hear a scoop here sometimes. Then perhaps more journalists will come here, because Corona has sometimes made it a sad thing here in Parliament. The President is doing his best and we are all trying to do our job. You are also always present on punctual terms. You are doing very well and you know that I respect that, but it is important to give answers here, especially if there are any questions. I'm gonna take a look at your Facebook campaign. How's it gonna go? What are the migratory flows towards Belgium? You say that in September there were again more than 3,000 asylum applications and 700 secondary applications. Those numbers are huge. You have also sent a letter with a number of European colleagues to your Greek colleague asking for the Dublin scheme to be optimised for Greece. In Knack it said that question fell on a cold stone. Is that right? Did you get an answer to that? Can we see this letter and the Greek reply, Mr President? It may be interesting to have them available in committee. What about the return to Greece? What is the state of play in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, unlike in 2015, the current Greek government is moving in a firm direction towards immigration and clearly does not want to act as a gateway to Europe. The country made that clear last year when its border was literally stormed in an orchestrated campaign by the Turkish government. The European Commission rightly referred to the country as the shield of Europe. I have also been able to observe on the spot what the Greeks had to do in order to secure their borders. As Greece is also facing illegal immigration by sea, the Greek Government announced its intention to step up patrols in the Aegean Sea. In the past, EUR 15.8 million was provided by the European Union, but at the beginning of this month it was said that Brussels would shut down the money supply. Can you confirm that message? If so, do you think that the European Commission's decision is desirable, particularly in view of the likely increase in illegal immigration flows, or do you agree with the position of the Austrian Government, including Christian Democrats, who expressed solidarity with Greece and called the European Commission's proposed decision 'agreed' and'short-sighted'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u21	I believe that these are the combined questions about secondary migratory flows and the Greek coastguard, and that the questions about the distress campaign are included in the questions about reception. The questions are related and I will try to give you some of the answer here, but I suspect the rest will be discussed further. These questions have been combined because both secondary migratory flows from Greece and the Dublin system and support for the Greek coastguard deserve the same answer. As you know, the number of asylum applications in Belgium is increasing. An important part of these applications comes from people who have already applied or sometimes also from people who have already received protection status, very often also in Greece. I have already raised this issue at European level and bilaterally with my Greek colleague. European asylum and migration policy is based on the responsibility of all, including Greece. Since 2015, Greece has received €3.38 billion of financial support from the European Union to improve border management and migration. That is a high amount, but it is an amount that can be justified, given the large influx that Greece is facing. I welcome the fact that Europe has invested in Greece in order to improve border management, but this must continue to be the case in the future. At the end of August Greece asked the European Union for additional funds of EUR 15.8 million to strengthen the Coast Guard. On 30 August, the competent European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, stated that additional EU border management funding should be linked to enhanced monitoring of the application of human rights and, in particular, the establishment of an independent monitoring mechanism, in the context of new reports reporting attempts at pushbacks, including by the Greek authorities. We from Belgium fully support this approach, linking funding to fulfilling the conditions for the effective application of human rights. Border guards must also comply with the existing legal framework and respect the fundamental rights of migrants. The Greek borders, which are also our borders, must be strengthened, but human rights must always be respected. I am not just saying that, as the judiciary at European level says, it is difficult for Dublin to return to Greece if some Member States do not do what is expected of them. The fact that a number of conditions are attached to funding also has a positive impact on Belgium's approach to secondary migratory flows. The reality is that there are still a lot of secondary flows today of people who have applied for asylum in our country but should actually stay in Greece. I have now received a reply from Greece to the joint letter to which you both referred. In that answer, the Greek Minister asks for understanding of the difficult situation in Greece. Understanding is definitely there. The pressure on the external borders, as well as on the Greek reception system, is particularly high. My colleague also mentioned the efforts made by Greece in recent years in the areas of procedures, reception and integration of asylum seekers and refugees. He also pointed out the differences in social standards, including for nationals, between the different European Member States. He argued that the best approach to secondary migratory flows is to tackle primary flows. For recognised refugees, there is a right to travel through the Schengen area, which makes it difficult to combat abuse. He reiterated that, in his view, the only solution to this problem is a European solution based on a good balance between responsibility and solidarity. I share the view that this problem can only be solved at European level. I also share the belief in the importance of making progress in the migration pact. This starts with proper screening at the external borders of the primary flows. You all know how many people eventually arrive in the European Union but do not appear to be in need of protection, namely two in three. In addition, internal reform of the common asylum system is needed to eliminate differences between Member States. Taking responsibility is, of course, accompanied by solidarity, but that also works in the opposite direction. In the meantime, the Dublin rules in force today must continue to apply. It is Greece's responsibility to treat recognised refugees and asylum seekers according to the correct standards in return for the funds that have been given to them since 2015. It is therefore important at European level, with all the other Member States facing the same problem of secondary migration, to continue to send the right signal to Greece, including the related funding. After the exchange of letters, I had several bilateral contacts with my good Greek colleague, which raised the issue. The European Commission has also organised consultations between the Member States and Greece. In any event, Greece has undertaken to step up efforts to integrate beneficiaries of international protection using the funds available. In addition to the judgments of the courts and courts, the fact that the latter category is not covered by traditional Dublin transfers is an additional problem. We continue to raise this issue at European level, particularly in the context of the debate on the migration pact. According to the 2016 recommendations of the European Commission, Dublin transfers to Greece are still allowed. This is not always evident in practice, as we unfortunately experienced in the previous legislature. The sending of requests to Greece only results in a limited number of cases effectively in obtaining an agreement. In some cases, however, the agreement is silent, which is then difficult to implement, in the absence of individual guarantees. I will continue to raise this problem with the European partners with Greek colleagues and with the European Union. The only lasting solution to this type of phenomenon is, of course, a reform of our European migration system. Only a European Union that works on a strong external dimension, so that primary flows remain manageable with strong external borders, and with a strong internal system that also establishes clear responsibilities and effective solidarity, is the solution. This solution lies both in the great principles of this reform and in the technical changes to the rules necessary to deal with such abuses. I have also received a number of numerical questions. I would ask you to submit them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I haven't heard anything about the Facebook campaign, but okay. We can talk about that later, although we probably won't get that far. In any case, I'm content in my own right. The first thing that happened after I wasn't Secretary of State anymore was to stop all derailment campaigns. People thought they were too hard. Since then, we have had a new asylum crisis. That is why I am pleased that, after three years, we are finally going to launch a new campaign of distress, even if it is an internal European plan. I do not think this is going to produce much effect, but we will have to wait and see. The basis is not being addressed. A number of accompanying measures will have to be taken. The application of the Dublin procedure by Greece is, of course, essential. One can say that one should not go on travelling, but if people do so and one cannot send them back to Greece, then who is this message intended for? These people also know perfectly how to handle the fork. They are kept very well informed. In the meantime, I believe that Greece has already received EUR 1 billion of European money to set up its asylum system. That still doesn't work. You are still hammering on the story that we need to ensure that we quickly screen the people at the external border. We've been at it for ten years. EUR 1 billion has already been spent and the Greek asylum system is still dramatic. It is so dramatic that you cannot even send them back from the European courts to Greece. So that's all in the soup. That will also continue in the soup, because the Greeks simply do not want to keep these people. They will never say that to you, of course, but they want these people to travel. The Italians want the same thing. They have their own problems, they think they shouldn't take these people all by themselves, and they think these migrants are free to go and stand wherever they want. We have a European asylum system where, after 18 months, Belgium is still responsible. So, this is stuck all the time. Therefore, once again, my plea: choose a different model. Go to another paradigm. Make that shift. It will not be easy, certainly not to convince your colleagues in the government, but it is the only right thing to do. This can never work. This is completely doomed to failure. We don't believe in that anymore. We have to try to deal with this in a different way. I will continue to argue that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, those Greek borders are also our borders. You are talking about controlling the European external borders. Well, we should do that in cooperation with the Greeks, especially in cooperation with the Greek border guards and the Greek coastguard. If we do not provide them with sufficient funds, of course there is a limp. In this sense, it is regrettable that the Belgian Government wishes to join European Commissioner Johansson rather than Chancellor Kurz. This will prove to be a historic mistake which will haunt us for a very long time. We would prefer to join someone like Mrs Johansson, who was elected to the Communist Party in Sweden. In the previous questions, we were able to see how strange these people are. Mrs Johansson says she is proud that the Swedish population will soon be replaced by new Sweden, by migrants. She says that Europe needs much more migration. The fact that we choose to join such a person, rather than someone like Mr Kurz, who is looking at this migration crisis with common sense, is a historic mistake. Hopefully we can get back to that mistake before 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u24	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55020879C, 55020881C, 55020882C by Mr Moutquin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, a few months ago the hunger strike of more than 400 foreigners in Brussels was stopped and a neutral zone was established where illegal foreigners could submit their applications for residence. From press releases we learned that besides them other persons in illegal residence also applied in the neutral zone. How many applications were submitted in the neutral zone? How many applications were submitted by the hunger strikers and how many by non-hungry strikers? How was the distinction made? How was it verified? What applications were made on the basis of asylum Articles 9b and 9a and other articles? I'd like to get a split-up by type of procedure. What eligibility and merits criteria were used in each of these possible procedures? For example, was a residence check always carried out when the procedure so requires? What is the status of each application? How many applications were rejected at the admissibility stage and which were previously rejected? How many applications were declared unfounded and for what reason? How many and which applications were finally approved? For what reason were they approved? I would like to have a clear list with each time the time period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u26	Mr President, Mr Moutquin is not here, but I will also answer his questions as well as possible. Mr Francken, you ask a number of questions, which are very precise, until the date of submission per application submitted. Of course, I cannot deal with all these questions here. However, you can certainly put them in writing. The hunger strike was indeed a difficult time for many people. I deeply regretted that people have chosen to put their lives at risk. It was very important for me to convey, from the outset, a very clear message that does not give false hopes to the people concerned. There will be no collective regularization, and there will be no encroachment on the discretion of the Secretary of State by incorporating regularization criteria into the law. A hunger strike does not justify an ad hoc and non-structural policy, including more favourable measures for people who have decided to start a hunger strike or, worse still, to sew their lips. The humanitarian regularisation procedure remains an exceptional procedure for persons who do not meet the conditions for obtaining a legal stay in Belgium through existing migration channels. Any person may and may submit an individual application for humanitarian regularization, which will always be assessed individually. Existing instructions will not change. Unfortunately, the submission of 9bis applications by hunger strikers was delayed. It was not until the end of August that the Aliens Office received the first ten applications. Similarly, it is only recently that a large number of applications have been received by my services through the City of Brussels. All these requests are being processed. Several decisions will be forwarded to the municipalities concerned for notification in the near future. Ten applications for authorisation to stay for medical reasons were also submitted by ex-hunterstakers, the so-called 9ter applications, until 4 October 2021. Those files took five decisions until today, one of which was well-founded, because the person concerned suffers from a serious terminal disease, which, for the sake of clarity, does not relate to the hunger strike and for which there is no adequate treatment in his country of origin. The four other 9b applications were rejected. The issue of access to the single permit from an irregular stay has been discussed several times in this committee. As this amounts to a regularisation based on the labour test, I have already voted against this proposal. For my part, I am preparing a change in the law in order to allow access to the single permit wider than it is today from a legal stay. It is necessary to ensure that the people who are here in legal residence can work, but this is never the case from an irregular stay. It must therefore be understood that ensuring that people can work in Belgium is positive, but this can never be done on the basis of an irregular stay, since this path is made easier. Furthermore, I can only find it positive that the Regions want to work within their competence on access to the professions in need by means of the tools available to them, such as updating and extending the list of professions in need. The problem areas are the responsibility of the regions. I will encourage the regions to fill in the bottleneck professions as much as possible. Despite the fact that Belgium still has a lot of job seekers, we can certainly also use qualified workers through legal labour migration into our labour market. If we cut these labour supply lines completely, as our friends on the other side of the North Sea have done, this will lead to more painful moments. Finally, I understand the Walloon authorities' requests to have workers to rebuild the Walloon towns and villages affected by the floods. In this regard, I am committed to supporting the activation of asylum seekers, who really want to work but often face many practical barriers to accessing the labour market. There were also questions about the neutral zone. That neutral zone was open seven working days in July 2021. The intention was to give the hunger strikers the opportunity to inform themselves there about the procedures and state of play of their files and to ask general questions about migration. No applications were therefore made in the neutral zone. However, 109 people were interviewed there with a DVZ employee. It provided them with information on the specific course of residence procedures. I cannot give answers to the other questions as no decisions have yet been taken in the files submitted by the former hunger strikers. As soon as that is possible, full transparency will be given, as I said, with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I will indeed put a number of questions in writing. I note that the neutral zone has been open for seven days and that 109 people had a conversation. You say the neutral zone was open to the hunger strikers. In the beginning, she was actually open to a wider audience. At first I thought she was only meant for the hunger strikers, but apparently that was not the case. That has led to a lot of chaos. Anyway, that's what happened. I also note that, even if this had happened in July 2021, you only received a dozen applications for 9bis by the hunger strikers at the end of August. Recently, a large number of 9bis files have been submitted to DVZ. Do you have a precise date for that? Is this about the last few days? We're two or three months later. At the end of the day, however, it took a very long time for those concerned to be able to compile their files. You say that work is often used as a criterion, but that is not really a criterion. In any case, that is not a positive news for them. So that doesn't look good at all. At the question of how many applications 9b were submitted on 4 October 2021 I noted five, or were there six? In any case, it concerns five decisions, one of which is well founded. We're talking about someone who's terminally ill. Of course, that's not a problem. The other four were rejected. Thank you very much for the answer. We are following closely how the issue is being taken up. I understand that the church is still occupied and that they are still very active. I've read some articles about it and heard some stories about it. The news will hit like a bomb. We'll see what the counter-reaction becomes. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u28	Dear Secretary of State, as is well known in the meantime, a further immigration gate to Europe was opened a while ago by the Belarusian dictator Lukashenko, who, like his Turkish colleague, Erdogan, did not hesitate to use illegal migrants as a political weapon against Europe. After Lithuania was hit by the sudden and organised influx, Latvia and Poland were also confronted with this issue. Two days ago there were still moving videos about viral, showing how distressing this situation is and how urgent a thorough approach is. There is no doubt that the situation at the north-east border of the European Union is likely to have consequences for us in the long term. Recently, the German newspaper Die Welt reported that illegal immigration via Belarus has now reached Germany. Meanwhile, at the request of the European Union, the Iraqi Government would have suspended the four weekly flights from Baghdad to the Belarusian capital Minsk. Iraqi Airways would even have sent a Boeing 777 to Minsk to bring back Iraqi illegal immigrants. From Istanbul, on the other hand, Turkish Airlines' flights to Minsk would continue unabated. Can you confirm this information? Has the European Union also urged or pressureed the Turkish authorities to suspend flights? If so, was there a positive response? If not, why not? How many illegal immigrants who entered the European Union via Belarus have already been returned to their countries of origin? How many illegal immigrants or asylum seekers are currently in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland? How do you estimate the immigration crisis at the north-east border of the European Union in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, we had an exchange of views on this subject following a European meeting in response to a legitimate request from a number of Eastern European Member States. I myself have been in contact with our NATO ambassadors in these countries in recent weeks. Next weekend, NATO Parliamentary Assembly will also meet in Lisbon, in the presence of NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. This issue will, of course, also be addressed. I am asking this question particularly with a view to next weekend's meetings and the summit meeting on Monday. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play? What does Belgium do? How can we help? I understand that ten people were asked to be sent as part of the hybrid warfare, i.e. experts who can counter hybrid warfare with regard to President Lukashenko and his regime. Will Belgium participate in this? How can we do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u30	Mr Van Langenhove, Mr Francken, I can confirm that, in response to the European criticism of Belarus, the regime started in June to consciously promote migratory flows to Lithuania, causing a migration crisis at Lithuanian borders. The European Union responded with a statement in which, of course, the instrumentalisation of migration was rejected and provided support at the border. I myself took part in an informal meeting of the Ministers for the Interior of the 27 European Member States, which was convened as a matter of urgency to deal with the issue on 18 August. At that meeting, the European Member States agreed to intensify logistical support to those countries and to effectively send additional experts, officials and equipment to our colleagues. Of course, I have expressed my support for the Member States concerned. Frontex and EASO came to the scene to provide assistance. Fortunately, the European Union and the Member States reacted quickly and decisively. Indeed, consultations were also held with a number of important countries of origin. Thanks to political, financial, operational and diplomatic efforts, the situation at the border has more or less stabilised. The suspension of all direct flights from Iraq to Minsk is still applicable. At European level, contacts have been established with Turkey to discuss this problem. Nevertheless, the situation at the border remains worrying and the state of emergency is in force. Persons who do not request international protection shall be stopped. Others may apply for asylum. As long as the procedure is in progress, there is obviously no forced return. However, there are migrants who have meanwhile expressed the will to return voluntarily, as has happened in several cases. The total number of arrivals at the Belarusian border in 2021 is 4.152 in Lithuania, 1.497 in Poland and 384 in Latvia. Of course, not all persons are in illegal residence and the usual asylum procedures are followed. Several flights have also been organised from Minsk to Baghdad to return Iraqi irregular migrants to Iraq. The latest figure of 6 September 2021 shows that 690 Iraqis have returned. A number of return flights were also planned at that time. Hybrid warfareis certainly worrying. The question of what we can do in the field of defence must certainly be put to the Minister of Defence, but this also clearly shows that the European Union must set its foot in the world at international level, in the right way, and that the European Union must cooperate in the field of migration. I think we have done this well by supporting our friends at the external borders very quickly, diplomatically and operationally. We will have to continue to do so in the future. We must show the rest of the world that such practices are not only distasteful but simply not working. I hope that Europe will come up with an answer soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, it is true that the symptoms have been dealt with correctly and correctly in this part-migration crisis. However, the cause is still not addressed, which is quite unfortunate. You yourself have a lot of responsibilities, which unfortunately you have not yet taken. Should the migration policy of the European Union and Belgium be in order, we could not be blackmailed by a dictator like Lukashenko or Erdogan. In this case, it would not be possible for them to constantly blackmail us, put lives at risk and push illegal migrants into the European Union. You mentioned the contacts between the European Union and Turkey, while Turkey still uses illegal migrants against the European Union. I quote: 'Contacts have been made to discuss the problem'. Has Europe become so pathetic, so weak and so weak that we have to wait weeks to establish contacts and discuss a problem? Can Europe really not put on the table any more to stop this blackmail and stop illegal migration, which is being used as a weapon against Europe, immediately? There is much more possible than making contacts to discuss a problem. It is a pity that no more has been done. You often look at the European Union for solutions. However, there are few solutions on that side. I hope that more can be done in this area and that you too will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I will certainly raise the matter with Mrs Dedonder. I have also put a question to Mr Stoltenberg on this. It's gonna be hot this weekend anyway, along with Afghanistan. You claim that 600 people have been returned from Minsk to Baghdad. So Belarus itself organises return flights, because we have closed the border and they do not get through. That's a very good thing, I didn't know. You also point out that we are diplomatically and operationally supporting our European neighbours to the east. For that operational part, it is not entirely clear to me how support is being given. Have we sent anything yet? I see the Danes are sending barbed wire. A number of other countries have also done so. I am not saying that we should do the same, that is something else. However, I have heard that an expert team has been asked to be sent on hybrid warfare. I must confess that it is a pity that we do not participate in this. I know that you have your concerns here with the ongoing asylum crisis and that you cannot miss many people. I assume, however, that we will not send a Fedasil employee, it will be someone from Defense or DVZ. We might be able to spare that employee. I understand you need all the people here. However, one or two people should be able to send a message to our Polish, Latvian and Lithuanian friends that we support not only diplomatically and with words but also with deeds. I'm gonna have to ask you to reconsider. Sending one or two people might be a signal that allows you to buy credit in other files. After all, there are still exciting years to come in the field of migration at European level. Finally, we see a move to the right. What we experienced in 2015 is not going to happen so quickly anymore. The external borders are all being hermetically sealed off. I have argued for this for years, and we see it happening now. Your coalition partners on the left are silent and looking the other way, because they find that there is no immediate solution other than to create a Fortress Europe. That is, after all, de facto what is happening. The question then is whether there will be another drawbridge, because how are we going to organise all this? I am in favour of a Fortress Europe in itself, but I think that is a very bad term. However, I am also in favour of providing a drawbridge here and there. Because things have gone so badly and are still going so badly, we are now given the fact that the countries at the external borders are simply raising walls, fences and wire, and that there is actually a Fortress Europe where everyone is talking to each other about where to get the drawbridge. I think that is a very interesting debate. Perhaps we can agree on this during the budget debate, because I am already out of my speaking time. On that occasion we can talk for as long as we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u33	Lucky for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u34	It was said in the Conference of Presidents that there would be more speaking time for the opposition vis-à-vis the majority. This is certainly an interesting debate, which we will certainly have over the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, you recently argued in the media for the mandatory vaccination of asylum seekers. Figures from Fedasil show that asylum centres in Flanders and Brussels have an average vaccination rate of 62%. However, there are considerable differences between the centres. In the asylum centres of Leopoldsburg or Poelkapelle, for example, more than 80% of asylum seekers have been vaccinated against the coronavirus, while in other centres vaccination rates are much lower. Recently, the Consultation Committee discussed your proposal on a possible mandatory vaccination in the asylum centres. Has the Consultative Committee responded to your proposal? If so, what is your plan of action to achieve that? Anyone who arrives in Brussels in the Klein Kastiltje will be subjected to a covid test and, if necessary, will be quarantined. How many persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 and how many were quarantined? I'd like to get the figures for the last three months. Can you also give me an overview of the vaccination rate per asylum centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u36	Mrs Safai, despite the fact that we have managed to reduce the number of corona contaminations in the reception centres, residents of a collectivity are at greater risk of infection. The facilities are collective and residents live together on a small surface. Compulsory vaccination should primarily benefit the weaker and older cohabitants in the centres, as well as the staff who have continued to work during this difficult period. The reception centres are still operating today with very strict corona measures, including the need to keep quarantine places free. With mandatory vaccination for residents, the centres would be able to move back to normal capacity, the very strict conditions that apply there would no longer apply, and especially the many vulnerable who are there would be much better protected. The legal framework for introducing compulsory vaccination is currently being examined. For the time being, we will continue to focus on increased awareness, as is the case for the rest of the population. It is a bit similar to the story of vaccinations in the healthcare sector. I know that some people were surprised by the demand to vaccinate asylum seekers. One may wonder why this should be done for a particular target group, but many people in the healthcare sector understand why. Vulnerable profiles come into care, so we need to have a specific view on them. I sincerely believe that we should do the same for asylum seekers. There are few target groups in which 200 people live together in a collectivity and enter and exit. There are very vulnerable people here. If it's legal, then we should definitely consider it. In the meantime, we must effectively raise awareness. You mentioned Leopoldsburg and Poelkapelle. There the vaccination rate is effectively higher than 80%. In Poelkapelle, according to the latest figures I have, even 100 % has been vaccinated. It is noted that there are a number of asylum centres where the great commitment of the staff has ensured that everyone has been vaccinated. Let me give you the example of the asylum centre in Leopoldsburg. There they drew a syringe on a piece of cardboard, and it colored in as the percentage of vaccinees increased. Those are small initiatives, but they make everyone participate. It also helps to involve asylum seekers as volunteers in the vaccination centre. It makes them ambassadors of the vaccination. That is a good thing. You asked how many people were vaccinated at which center, and in which not. I would ask you to put these questions in writing. I can tell you by heart that the rate of infection in the Klein Kastiltskin, when one arrives, is always around 2 to 3 %. This is similar to the figures in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u37	Thank you for your answers. In the end, this was a very good and right proposal from you. I hope it works and that it is legally feasible. It has also happened for the care staff, so it must somehow be possible here too. Vaccination is important because these people live together in a collectivity, where the risk of infection is really higher. People who are weak will be in danger there. Vaccination is important for the safety of our society. I hope that you will be able to achieve this further and that everyone will be vaccinated in the asylum centres as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, at the committee on 26 August, you stated that Afghans staying in a closed centre will be released for return, as there is no return option. How many Afghans were released in July, August and September? How many of them have criminal records? What facts are they known for in our law enforcement services? What facts were they condemned for and what punishments were imposed on them? Do they still have to serve part of their punishment? Will they still have to do this? So they're going back to prison? I suppose so. What follow-up is foreseen for these individuals? Have these released submitted a new application for residence or asylum? If so, which one? I'd like more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u39	Your question is very numerical. Two Afghans were released in July, seven in August and one in September. The more detailed questions about who, what, where, how and when can you submit in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u40	I'll be sure to. So a total of ten Afghans have been released. Afghans are detained in the framework of Dublin, Afghans are released in the context of repatriation. Who's still in the closed centers? These are all heavy profiles or people within the framework of Dublin. There's just way too little room for the rest. Then who was released and what do all these people have on their hands? I will ask for this in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, there is a great deal of fuss about some things in the Chamber, such as the case of the Congolese student. Such things happen often and sometimes they come into the media, often through action groups. It would be interesting, moreover, to examine how this is suddenly made so much public. But anyway, other events go by almost wrinklelessly. Very striking was the hostage taking of two employees of the Transport Office of the Foreign Affairs Office during a transport of a convicted criminal from a closed center to the airport. That person escaped the cell car and took two employees hostage. The same thing happened in Bruges a month earlier. There is a great deal of concern on the ground, because our people don't get pepper spray, for example. They do not belong to the Security Executive Board (DAB). Today I read that there are 300 people too short of the DAB, the service that was set up to carry out, among other things, prisoner transport. On the other hand, DVZ's office T, which does its best, gets nothing: no pepper spray, no baton, only handcuffs. These handcuffs must not even be used by those involved, except in the event of very serious aggression. Of course, it was written in the stars that that would go wrong. Apparently, at the bottom of the cell in the cars, there's a crevice of several centimeters that allows people to escape, which has already happened a few times. That's very painful. What measures will you take to avoid that? Will Bureau T employees be allowed to use a baton or at least pepper spray, because they sometimes also carry very serious criminals? For example, the radicalized people from Vottem are really not pussy, so to speak. There's been a lot of incidents. What will you do about this? Bureau T staff have a list of desiderata. Will you receive them in your cabinet and talk to them or the trade union organizations? In Het Laatste Nieuws was also your reaction, namely that the employee should have been in the back of the car to supervise, because that person could never have escaped. That is only a directive during the corona crisis, which was never the case in the past. You also said that the employees will be sanctioned because they have not done their job properly. I thought that was a very punitive reaction. You will have to examine whether that penalty is necessary, which may be so, but I expected you to consider how to make the transports safer, because it was a very serious incident. A hostage situation on a car strade doesn't happen every week. I was therefore surprised that there was so little media attention for that. Some things are blown up in the media, while others, which I personally find punished, are not given any publicity at all. One can't usually predict it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u42	Mr Francken, it is true that in spring and early September two people managed to escape during a transfer. Steps were taken to adapt the 40 recently purchased vehicles. Due to the leave period in July and August, the interventions are planned for September. Immediately after the second incident, this was accelerated, which enabled the first adjustments to these vehicles to be started on 10 September. Depending on the capacity of the garage and the continuity of the operation of Office T, this is done at a rate of about five adjustments per day. So the whole operation to make all those vehicles safer will soon be complete. Pending the adjustments, not because of the corona measures, DVZ's management issued the instruction that the supervisors should sit shrunk and not side by side. That instruction was not followed. It is up to the Foreign Affairs Department to do the follow-up of the employees involved. That's an internal matter. If I am asked a question about this, I say that the Department of Foreign Affairs will follow that and that the instructions have not been followed. Of course, my main concern is the safety of our own staff and we must above all ensure that all employees of DVZ can do their job in the right conditions. That is why I immediately asked for the vehicles to be adapted as soon as possible so that everyone can carry out their work safely. I am particularly pleased that the safety of the employees has not been compromised, whether the instructions have been followed or not. That is the most important thing, also for me, given the difficult and courageous work our staff have to do on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u43	Of course, security has been compromised by the two incidents. You are now saying that the vehicles are being modified, as I heard. It is, of course, necessary for that to happen. Nevertheless, I believe that it is also necessary that you have a discussion with a number of staff on the ground, with Mr Roosemont and/or with the trade unions. After all, there is a great deal of discontent and anxiety there. Sit tight and close the cell so no one can leave is one thing. But of course it's much more than that. You are continuing the policy that I started and for which you have my support, of course, with your commitment to returning the criminals with a heavy profile to their country of origin. They do not belong here; they must go back to the country of origin; they are the problem of that country and not our problem. But then, of course, they have to be transported. It's not done by the DAB, it's done by our own people. However, it's often about heavy guys and women to a lesser extent. I don't want to be sexist. So you really should talk about whether the staff involved should not be equipped with a stick or pepper spray, something that gives them a little more safety in very dangerous situations. I call upon you to do so. I'll follow up on the file, and I hope you'll make time for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u44	The conversation's scheduled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u45	That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, in July 2021, the federal government decided to repatriate six IS women and their ten children to our country, so to speak. According to the security services, the repatriation of the six IS women and their children was safer than not to do it. That's what the Prime Minister said in the Chamber. Upon arrival, the mothers were immediately taken to prison. Five out of six women were already sentenced in absentia to the maximum sentence of five years. Against the sixth mother ran an international arrest warrant. She's in custody. It is expected to appear before the criminal court by the end of 2021. Has DVZ had to deliver visas and are such repatriation operations planned or not planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u47	On 23 June 2021, the National Security Council gave effective agreement for the repatriation of ten children and their Belgian mothers. Only mothers of Belgian nationality were repatriated. They therefore do not fall within my competence. As far as children are concerned, the nationality of one of the children was formally established. For the nine other children, the formalities for determining nationality still have to be completed in Belgium. So a visa was applied to the laissez-passer. No new evacuations are planned at the moment. So I certainly can't say anything more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u48	Thank you for your answer. I can only regret that these people just get to us, after everything they've done. I understand from you that no visa has been sent to these terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, at the last sitting I was supposed to follow up my questions with the questions raised by a number of colleagues on Afghan security screening. You have already answered most of the questions at that time. I haven't seen a question answered yet. Was the quadruple security screening also affected by the attitude of these people to religious violence in general? Similar research in Austria shows that more than half of the young Afghan asylum seekers, refugees and migrants are in favour of religious violence. They tolerate that and approve it. I wonder whether the very thorough security screening will also address these people's attitudes to religious violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u50	Mr Van Langenhove, your question was tabled a few hours late. Otherwise, you could certainly have joined the other questions. In fact, in the previous committee, I explained the safety screening of the evacuated. They were screened by DVZ, the State Security, the ADIV, the OCAD, the federal police, and they were pulled through the SIS and Evibel databases. I have already made that clear. A person who is due here and who applies for asylum is always questioned about the questions you indicate. In case of an evacuation from Kabul, an interview cannot be conducted on the spot, but this must be done and followed up here. That makes sense to me. This is not just the case for these Afghans, but for everyone who is due on Belgian territory and applies for asylum. We need to know how they look at religious violence and other forms of extremism that can be violent. I have also said in the past that there are many people coming every day to apply for asylum in the Klein Kastiltje. That control is at least as important. It is necessary to check whether these people welcome religious violence or other forms of violent extremism. That is important for our safety, and it will certainly be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u51	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I note that the attitude of those people towards religious violence is being measured. I wonder if there is more than a thousand people among those who are being controlled, and not a single person who approves of religious violence. Perhaps I should ask more specific questions about this in the future. When asked about this, I also wonder what results there are and what consequences they will have if that research shows that some people approve of violence. After all, I would be surprised if Austrian research showed that more than half of the young Afghan asylum seekers approve violence, whereas that would be zero in Belgium. That sounds like punishment to me. I'm sure I'll get back to you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I know that this is sometimes a bit of annoyance, but for my part, I just want to put things to a standstill. Last week, with my colleague Hervé Rigot, I went to Spa. On this occasion, we were able to see the difficulties that exist in this reception centre, the management of which was entrusted to a company by Fedasil. There are many problems. There are health problems. You must have heard about it. There are also problems – I will raise this issue with your colleague from the Interior – with the Fagnes police zone, which is not always able to follow due to the increase in a number of facts. She does not succeed in performing her work properly, even if the will exists. It seems necessary to strengthen it. It is also very interesting to note that there are problems with fire safety. However, this is not the first time that firefighters have warned about this. I would like to point out that the people who live in this centre have a rather difficult experience and that they are much more numerous than expected at the outset. It was about 250 people. Today, while we are still in the covid-19 period, 404 people are staying there. How do you intend to remedy this situation, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, it is always good to go on the spot, but I must admit that I did not. I have not yet succeeded, although going on the spot always brings added value. I'll try to organize that sometime. However, I have to say that your explanation at the last sitting struck me, in particular that you mentioned that the number of seats will increase to 450 or even 550. That's why I first sought information. Isn't it Spa that was hit so hard by the flood, the floods? The same municipality was said at a certain point that Afghans were sent through the Defense Department. The mayor turned out not to be aware of this and was very displeased about it. I asked questions about this at the time, and apparently it was a misunderstanding. Now, however, new problems are emerging. Mr Secretary of State, what exactly will happen at the asylum centre in Spa? Is it true that the number of asylum seekers in Spa has already been increased and will be further increased? What measures have you taken and will you take to deal with the crisis, at least the crisis? There are problems with the service provider and there is a political issue of some resistance from the local population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, my colleague has already painted the picture of what we were able to hear last week at a consultation meeting with the mayor, Fedasil and the competent local authorities. What happens at Spa is not surprising. The creation by an inexperienced team of a centre that is growing so quickly creates many problems. The problem lies in the speed with which this centre has had to grow to meet the needs of the network. But it is not Fedasil who wants and a private operator does not have experience in the reception policy and the implementation of a quality reception. This operator is now a little helpless and must find his marks with insufficient staff on the site. This situation poses a problem for the integration of this centre into the local network and into the life of Spa, a city which has had to cope with the floods and which has to rise. When working with a private operator, audits are put in place. Mr. Secretary of State, have any audits been conducted? How often? What are the conclusions? Have any comments or representations been made to the private operator? Is Fedasil aware of this situation? Even if we need places, we need to stop the expansion of this centre and put some useful resources in training and coaching, or even detach staff from Fedasil to bring expertise to the site and make sure to create a bond of trust. The situation is not dramatic but could become so if the necessary measures are not taken. In addition, I am also concerned about fire safety at the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The public market for the spa centre provides for a capacity of 550 places, including 300 generic places and 250 buffer places. Facing a saturation of the reception network, Fedasil had to activate the 250 reception places in August. It is true, as Mr Rigot points out, that this was done very quickly. This speed combined with a private partner with little experience makes it necessary to ensure that everything goes well. We're taking care of it. Fedasil had to activate these places to accommodate the influx. For this we had to use the available capacity. In other centres we have also activated the existing buffer spaces. Fedasil is in constant consultation with the operator and the local authorities. Fedasil has been involved since the award of public contracts. Svasta is required to meet the reception quality standards and compliance with the specifications. Follow-up and monitoring visits are carried out regularly before and after the opening of the site. In total, there are 38 control visits organized by Fedasil since the opening of the Spa Sol Cress centre. The last inspection visit took place on Friday, 1 October. Another visit is planned in the coming days. The latest thematic reports are still being written and analysed. It is therefore not possible to share these last results. Various shortcomings have already been noted, and corrective measures have been required on the part of the private operator in the field of safety, organisation of reception, support, provision of places and the quantity of staff. Firm response times, as provided for in public procurement legislation, have been required. In order to guarantee the quality of reception within the structure, important support has been set up for this centre, through the presence on site of two nurses and a social assistant from Fedasil, following the emergency activation of the places. The activation of the last 250 reception places required, after two weeks, the provision of more staff in the reception structure. The staff of Svasta were received, but clarifications on the actual occupation of Svasta were requested. A meeting is organized tomorrow to discuss the organization of vaccination against covid-19. This meeting will take place between the medical coordination of Fedasil, the medical office of the reception centre and the doctor president of the Association of Generalist Physicians of the East Francophone. The modalities of vaccination days will be discussed. The list of people who have already been vaccinated and are ready to be vaccinated is being established, and awareness-raising is being strengthened. As a result of capacity building, Svasta has put in place various security measures: teams reinforced by additional staff, awareness-raising campaign on health actions in time of covid-19, internal regulations, advice to the wise via residents and others, activities aimed at residents so that they can take care, socialize and integrate, set up a system of sanctions proportional to the facts, and offer training and educational facilities for all residents. As for the question of strengthening the local police, it will obviously be necessary to address my colleague, and I stress that the current occupation of 414 places remains what it is for the moment. As Mr. Rigot has indicated, we must first ensure that all the criteria and requests that have been made at Svasta are put in place and respected and, until that is the case, that number will not be increased. It is therefore important to continue to follow up. As I have told you, Fedasil has made 38 visits and I think it will be necessary to do as much as necessary to ensure that the agreed criteria are met. It does not matter whether this is done by a public or private partner, the important thing is that the quality measures that are needed are implemented. These recent cases prove to us once again that we need a flexible reception network, with dynamic buffers. This should allow us to increase the number of places in the best way during times when this is necessary. That is why this government is working to ensure both sufficient capacity and at the same time flexibility in the host network, which must ensure that things are going better than in recent years. So this is for the latest events and complications that took place in Wallonia and in the Spa area due to the floods. I would also like to point out that Fedasil has also ensured that people who lost their homes as a result of the floods have been accommodated and housed. Solidarity is also important within one's own country and for the benefit of its citizens. That is what we have done and will continue to do if it appears necessary, but hope not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u56	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for this very detailed answer. Mr Rigot said earlier, is not Fedasil who wants, of course, and I also want to make it clear – it's been a little while since I've been following these files – that for many operators in private reception facilities, it's also going very well. However, it must also be noted that since the opening of this reception structure in Spa, this private company which is both the owner of the structure and at the same time operator of the same structure, nevertheless struggles to comply with the essentials. I'm talking about building security and people. I also stress what should consist of a decent reception. At some point, I want to say that neither should we "give fun" to the people we welcome. Nevertheless, it is necessary to be able to guarantee a certain decency and the possibility for staff to take over and assume the duties which are theirs within the framework of this first reception. It is also necessary to help this structure integrate perfectly into its environment. It is indeed important to have good contacts with the municipality and to have all the necessary tools, including the safety of the structure. In this regard, I referred to the police zone on which I will not fail to question the Minister of the Interior. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I am all these problems with great attention and will continue to do so as long as they are not resolved. I also hear that this centre will not grow any more, given the already very complicated situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that further expansion of the centre is not on the agenda. So it stays with the 450 places. I understand that there were still 100 buffer places that would be raised, but that is not the case. Are they going to get cut up after all? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u58	I would like to clarify something. We have 414 seats for now. A number of conditions must be met. Svasta is failing in this respect today. A lot of questions were asked. As long as the standard is not reached, you cannot use the existing buffer places. There is an effective maximum capacity of 550 places, but if the rules are not complied with and a lot of things still need to be adjusted, then it cannot be increased. Svasta was asked to do the necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, you are right to say that the quality must first be increased. Saying that these places could still be raised if the quality is up, in that city and in these circumstances, would certainly put bad blood on residents. After all, they were affected by the floods and now more asylum seekers would be sent there. I know as well as all of you here that you are suffering from a shortage of shelter, but I think this is a fairly big dilemma. It is not obvious to further increase capacity just there, especially in view of the situation. You did not say that, you spoke of the quality that must first be at its best. In fact, these are buffer seats, as you said last week or two weeks ago. They are foreseen and we need them, but you should think about them carefully, given the circumstances of this summer, namely the floods. None of that seems obvious to me. I don't know that mayor personally, but I did talk to the mayor of Chaudfontaine, Mr. Bacquelaine, whom we all know. It is still very difficult there on the Vesder and Maas. I will not comment on it further. It's your call . However, I would not do that. A second reflection concerns the provision of shelter by private operators. I started that during the crisis. At Fedasil, but also at the unions and the PS, there was always a lot of skepticism. People were wondering whether they should do so. They claimed that they had much more experience and that we should leave it to them or the Red Cross, their permanent partner. I am liberal in my own right, and I am therefore in favour of the market principle, if that can reduce the price. I believe that we are already paying enough taxes in this country, so that is always a good thing. When I look at the practice, however, I have to say that it is very often difficult with those private operators. I've been there myself. That's not always the case, they're really doing their best. A number of players have also been highly professionalised. However, it is something that I personally thought would be easier. It is not obvious, because it is a very special task and task. Nevertheless, I note that when Fedasil or the classic partners do it, things are progressing better. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We don't have a final report yet, please. In any case, we find that Fedasil has clearly pointed to serious and serious shortcomings. I think we can say that, since they affect the safety of people, the quality of reception. In the short term, every effort must be made to correct the fire, if necessary - as you mentioned - by strengthening the presence on the ground, by calling on the operator to act, particularly in terms of fire safety, without doubt, which has been pointed out. The other short-term aspect is to restore trust with local authorities. Today, it is legitimate for these authorities to be concerned about a situation which is described to them by the emergency zone, by the police zone, but also by the very functioning of the private operator, which seems to me to be overtaken by events, as a problematic situation. When you have a reception centre on your territory for the first time, you have a lot of questions: how will this centre fit into your daily life? That's for the short term. Another important point, obviously in the long term, which Mr Franken mentioned, is the ability of a private operator to act in such a specialized field. We must certainly, at some point, draw conclusions. We first appealed to private operators in 2015-2016. We are again calling on private operators this time. There are good experiences. There are also far less good experiences. Therefore, if, in the future, we want to pursue with private operators when the network needs it, then we must certainly review the special specifications and question the conditions that we will set for these operators to be real partners of Fedasil. Today, there is an element beyond specialization, which is also a reality. Unlike Fedasil, whose objective is to guarantee a quality of reception, and also to ensure - of course, I hope for an administration - that the budget is as balanced as possible, the private operator has another reality. And we can't blame him. His purpose, I understand, is to make a profit. And when the benefit is likely to affect the mission it is given, then you really have to do everything and put levers that will avoid that in the future. When it affects the human, it is certainly a first necessity. I will also come back to you, because indeed I have concerns about the ability of this operator, in view of what I saw in the meeting, to adapt to the needs in the future. We really need to follow him closely and support him. In any case, control it more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, a number of citizen organisations have just sent you a letter informing you of the significant increase in reports of MENA in Belgium. In this letter, they call for faster management of the reception of minors arriving in our country and point to the fact that Fedasil has put in place vulnerability criteria that filter the management of MENA outside of office hours and thus exclude certain profiles. According to them, these criteria are contrary to Belgian law and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Legal action would therefore be possible. Mr Secretary of State, what was your reaction to the letter from these associations? Do you confirm that the number of MENA has increased significantly in recent months? What efforts are being made to improve the management of MENA reception? What about the vulnerability criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to add my voice to the questions about unaccompanied minors. We're seeing a huge increase. In the 2020 corona year there were much fewer asylum applications, but the number of unaccompanied minors remained the same and the number of Afghans even increased significantly. This year, the fence's all over the dam. You're in a lot of trouble getting into care, and you're gonna have to answer to the court. What about the reception of unaccompanied underage aliens? How is cooperation with the Voogdij service going? Are there enough guardians? What will you do to reduce the number of NBMV in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to the previous question, I would like to add this. There were several references to the private partner, but it is also more expensive, most of the time. When we talk about the market, we sometimes forget to mention that, in general, private is more expensive, even if I don't talk about it. More reason to invest in a structural reception network. I am now responding to the questions that have just been asked. I share your concern about the reception of minors. I confirm that the number of persons declaring themselves "unaccompanied minors" has increased considerably in recent months, mainly in the context of requests for international protection. In this context, 1,764 declared MENA applied for asylum in 2020. In the first eight months of 2021, they were 1,748. My office and Fedasil received the notice and the summons made by various associations concerning the reception of minors. The introductory hearing before the Brussels Labour Court has already taken place this Monday to set the timetable. The increased influx naturally has a significant impact on the reception capacity for unaccompanied minors. Mainly the first stage reception areas have high capacity utilisation rates. In the past committee, I explained the current situation and the steps already taken to ensure adequate reception for minors. Fedasil is taking the necessary steps to increase the reception capacity of unaccompanied minors. I also mentioned the extra project, which was set up to deal with it. This increase in reception capacity is in the second and third phases. For the youngest and most vulnerable of them, a vital collaboration has existed since 2016 with the Communities. Concrete proposals are currently being discussed to increase the capacity of this particular group; I have explained the same in my response to the associations. Fedasil and DVZ work closely with the Voogdij Department to determine as soon as possible the age of unaccompanied minors for whom age doubts are expressed. The good cooperation between DVZ and Fedasil and the Voogdij service is very important, so that the age doubt can be cleared as soon as possible. A rapid age assessment is important because young people who are taken in the first phase are either correctly referred to the second stage of reception or, if it turns out that they are of age, are assigned to generic care. That last group isn't very small either. The Minister of Justice is therefore also investing in my question in the Voogdij department, so that he has the capacity to organise the age tests in a smooth way. Finally, Mrs Jadin, you asked me about my reaction to the letter from the various associations. Personally, I was a little disappointed. When I responded to the radio, I indicated that projects were being carried out, while noting that this problem had existed for a long time. While I quote the various actions undertaken, I regret that some associations react in a frustrated way and say only: "Mr Mahdi says that the problem has existed for a long time." That's not what I said. This government is working on it. The aim is to increase the number of places and ensure that minors who are so vulnerable can be accompanied in the best circumstances. Personally, I regret that this has been mentioned in this way, while all those who have listened to the radio without turning it off in the middle of a sentence know very well what has been said. I therefore hope that I can continue to work well and even better with certain associations which rightly want unaccompanied minors to be accompanied in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clarifications that have answered my questions. These are indeed very sensitive situations. As you explained, some young people find themselves in complicated situations. You have very well substantiated the possibilities of remedying this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We will continue to follow up on the matter. I'm really worried about that. My proposal, which was almost approved in the previous legislature, is that the Voogdijk and everything related to age determination should simply be transferred to the Foreign Affairs Office. Now it dances on two legs, so it doesn't actually work or undersized. That service would be much better placed in the Foreign Office. I was well advanced with Minister Geens at the time, but Mrs Lanjri's proposal ran into a Jet, which did not introduce it. However, that is the best solution and more efficient than the current method. An operation entrusted to two departments, one of which is with you and one of which is with the Minister of Justice, remains difficult and not optimal. I understand the PS wants to hold hearings on this matter. I will certainly be happy to take part in this. I do not think that the problems with unaccompanied minors will be resolved immediately. With the staff of the organisations in the field, including in Brussels, we will look into what we can also improve from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u66	Mr President, Secretary of State, a series of articles recently appeared in De Morgen by journalist Bruno Struys, who, with the support of the Pascal Decroos Fund, had the opportunity to speak with special journalism to several Jezidigstellen who were the victims of genocide and slavery at the time of the IS caliphate. Several testimonies by Jezidi women show that there are strong indications that Belgian IS fighters have also actively participated. Last week, I asked questions about this in the Committee on Justice to the Minister of Justice. In response, I was told that this government is committed to prosecuting perpetrators of sexual slavery and genocide on Jezidis. Anyway, anyone who has joined the Belgian IS fighters will be punished for joining a terrorist organisation. If they have committed other crimes, this should certainly not go unpunished. Unlike Mr Safai of N-VA, our Group Greens think it is important for Belgian IS terrorists to be repatriated. If they stay there, they can't be tried. If they're brought here, they'll come to justice and they can be punished. In this way, other crimes that they have committed can also be investigated. Everyone agrees, I believe, that the Jezidis are entitled to justice, to recognition of the terrible acts of which they have been victims, and that the perpetrators are being prosecuted for this. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Do you know how many Jezidis have come to Belgium as refugees? From the answer of the Minister of Justice, I know that DVZ will not, of course, register nationality separately in official statistics, but there may be other ways to find out, for example through a survey of the reception centres. When they are here, as in Germany, are they systematically heard about the actions they have been victimized to? Do you intend to send victims of Belgian perpetrators who are currently abroad with a temporary visa to Belgium, so that the federal court can hear these people and thus also build files to prosecute Belgian involvement in slavery and genocide? Have you had any contact with the Minister of Justice about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u67	Mr President, I regret what Mrs Platteau says about the punishment of IS-jihadis. They're here. They have been brought here from camps like Al-Hol and are supposedly being tried here. However, they will receive a maximum sentence of five years. Mrs Platteau, for you this is apparently a correct and justified punishment for such terrorists who have also brought Jezidi women as slaves to men. But I think they should just stay there. Through the media, I understand that six files are currently being opened at the federal prosecutor's office for involvement of foreign terrorist fighters in the sexual slavery of Jezidis. Those files ended up in the courthouse using reports from NGOs or statements from returners. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. How many Jezidi refugees are there in our country? Have we heard them systematically about genocide and slavery, as apparently happens in Germany? I'd like to get an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, Mrs Safai, I would like to apologize for being seven minutes late. I also saw on my way here a certain Professor Matthijs of whom I once had a lesson on public finances and who is an interesting pro. I also met two ladies and women's rights activists who were evacuated from Afghanistan and attended a hearing in the room above. I could see them for a while. So I was seven minutes late, but I'm making it up to you. In reply to your questions, I have to say, first of all, that it is not possible to provide statistics by ethnic group, not for Jezidis and not for other ethnic groups, such as the Tibetans or the Kurds. This does not mean that the element is not relevant in the examination of the requests. Only the ethnic group is not kept as such in the statistics. When examining applications for international protection, each dossier shall be examined individually. It is the task of the CGVS to assess whether there is a well-founded fear of persecution in accordance with the refugee definition or a real risk of serious harm in accordance with the definition of subsidiary protection. It is not the task of investigating whether there is genocide, just as it is not the task of the CGVS to assess politically the regime in place. The hearing on the CGSS is limited to the elements of interest in the assessment of the granting of either refugee status or subsidiary protection. Many aspects are addressed, including in certain cases aspects related to slavery. That's what's being taken into account. The federal prosecutor has launched an investigation into possible war crimes in Syria, or other very serious crimes. Cooperation shall be given to this investigation. Indications of serious crimes were communicated to the public prosecutor. In the case of visa applications, it is also not possible to split up according to the ethnicity of the applicant. So far I have not received a general question from victims or others in order to get the victims to come over and give them a visa. In any event, applications for humanitarian visas should be made in accordance with the usual procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed not possible to collect ethnic data in statistics, which I do understand, but perhaps this possibility should sometimes be available to certain groups. This will enable scientific research to assess the extent to which they are present and to collect interesting data in the context of judicial investigations. I would therefore ask you to consider with the services whether there are any additional possibilities for that group of jezidis. When I ask you whether you are considering bringing victims and witnesses here to be questioned, you say that files have indeed been opened against Belgian perpetrators, but that there have not yet been any requests from witnesses or victims to come here with a humanitarian visa. The question is, of course, whether we should take the initiative of the victims, or whether we should cooperate with the federal court, which has opened investigations into Belgian perpetrators, by actively looking for victims and testimonies abroad. We must also ask ourselves what is the best way to question them: do we do so on the ground or should these people be brought here so that their case can be investigated and we can do so as much as possible... I agree with Mrs Safai that people who have been guilty of slavery, genocide or serious war crimes must be tried for this. In their case, it must not remain a punishment for joining a terrorist organisation; it must really be investigated on the substance. There must be cooperation between the various administrations so that the victims can get justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u70	It is still very important that we actively look in Belgium for who is in that category, as is the case in Germany. We're way behind in the end. It is so regrettable that these IS women are coming back here, that the Jezidis are looking at what we are doing with us and everywhere in Europe. I still regret that, Mrs Platteau. We can stand up for the IS-jihadis or the Jezidis. We cannot both support and continue to help, as our government has done. The jihadis are here, but we can't hear the victims. We are not doing anything special for them, despite the resolution we unanimously adopted in the Chamber to support the Jezidis and help them overcome their problems. They have to fight that their whole lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic588x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we will not be able to finish the agenda today. The remaining questions on the agenda were postponed to a next meeting.
