ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u1	Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: We are starting our meeting with the largest group, the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u2	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to fly into it. Hopefully there will still be time for a second round, for the more technical speeches. We could consider this as a more general consideration. Mr Van Quickenborne said last time that the 640 pages were covered in detail. That's right. I finally got through it, too. However, it seems to me to be a bit of a cut-and-paste work from various cabinets. I'm still missing the red thread. Last Friday it was agreed that there would be a new schedule. That would be a summary table which included what was agreed in the parliamentary committee of inquiry and what had already been checked out. I'd like to tighten this up a little bit. I would like to hear what has already been checked out by the previous government and what the current government has done. Friday, I didn't get much of a clue. I heard talk about the Passenger Name Record (PNR), checking the passenger data. We discussed, among other things, the night-time searches, the Local Task Forces (LTF), the local integrated security cells. Focus was even all named. These are matters that were already approved at the time. I'm especially curious about what's in the docks now. A few draft laws have been announced, but I am also very curious as to how we are going to proceed. How will we ensure that we do not slacken, that we will not wait again for another act of terror to work reactively? This government must not only free up financial resources, but also engage in content and the provision of, among other things, those security services. I will not ask any technical questions in this first round. I will keep my speech limited and then Mr D'Haese can join us. I would like to ask six general questions which are relatively simple to answer. The first category of questions is about the terrorists themselves. We know that the Swedish Government reached a compromise at the time. Anyone convicted of joining a terrorist group would be held in prison for five years. For the N-VA that was the absolute minimum. We haven't been able to get out of the fire. We now, of course, notice that in Belgium five years are sometimes three years and in the case of Mrs Noura Firoud discussed last week that can be reduced to five months. What is the federal government's objective? Will the penalty be lifted? Again, in us you will find a good ally for this. The second question about the terrorists is very important because there has been a game changer since a week or two. The government has made a clear statement and wants to actively repatriate women on a case-by-case basis. A research team will decide whether they truly repent and, if so, would be actively repatriated to Belgium. Minister Van Quickenborne referred to an article in De Morgen that is now being interpreted correctly by both of us. It was never suggested that the N-VA would want to repatriate those women to Belgium, but we do want to separate them from each other there. Now we hear that not only the children up to 12 years old, but also the women could come back. I wonder what the next step is. I've already made a move on the trial on the ground. A few months ago, we were on the scene. The local judges are ready to bring the foreign terrorist fighters to justice in a court of law. There have already been 3,000 terrorists tried effectively, with minimum prison sentences of 20 years. These are mainly Iraqis and Syrians. Now a kind of international committee is being asked to begin the trial of the foreign terrorist fighters. So I want to know the government's position on this, but also how it intends to practically repatriate women. When people make such statements, I assume that there is already some sort of game plan, so I'm very curious about that plan. One thing I also miss is the reduction of the dual nationality of terrorists. There was no mention of that either. The government is entitled to say something about this. I also said last week: 'I do not want to repeat that in the election programme of the VVD, the widely praised, real liberals in the Netherlands, it says that they would even want to take away the unique, Dutch nationality of their terrorists.' It seems to us that it is too difficult to take Belgian nationality away from those terrorists if they have dual nationality. A judge can, of course, already refer this to Minister Van Quickenborne, and that is what is happening, but as far as we are concerned, this can be done automatically and one should not be sentenced to an effective prison sentence of five years. It is also allowed for people who are Belgian from birth as regards the N-VA. After these three questions about the terrorists, I'll get to the victims. Yesterday, during the mourning, I heard very nice speeches, both from our Prime Minister and from the victims themselves. Between the lines, I've heard a message of hope. Last week this government sent a diffuse signal, I think. A victim recently called me with the message that Minister Van Quickenborne only gave them a handout, while the grain barn was being robbed. EUR 300 000 is foreseen for V-Europe to appoint two coaches for 1,500 victims. At the same time, however, there can be no question of the Guarantee Fund. We should not refer to what was decided in 2018, because that is not a substitute for us or a replacement for this guarantee fund. On this point, too, I am very curious about the government's vision and how to prevent the victims from standing in the cold. Moreover, there is also the unique window, which already exists for Belgian victims abroad. That's what gives them administrative care. This morning I heard another testimony from a victim who said that 15 pages had to be filled out the day after the attack when it was not yet able to read one page. The unique window is now there, as Friday said, but it does not yet work. De facto, therefore, it is not there. We are also very curious about how and when the unique window will be organised. For this kind of predictable questions, the ministers will be well-armed. But then there's the trial. I almost wanted to say that we are on the eve of the trial. But this is Belgium. In 2022, we will all witness the greatest terrorist process our country has ever experienced. The N-VA, with the support of Katja Gabriels of Open Vld, has tried to amend article 150 of the Constitution. Madam President, you were the instigator there following the efforts of many victims not to bring the trial before an assassin's court, not to allow a people's jury to judge but a professional jury. For example, we would avoid spending another nine months to a year in a post-traumatic stress scenario, to hear and process another 30,000 debt questions. Mrs Gabriels' signature disappeared from our bill after the Vivaldi coalition took the oath. We invited the Minister of Justice to a hearing, but he didn't say anything there. He didn't say if he's for or against. It was actually very diffuse. I'm sure it wasn't enlightening. From his explanation I could see that he was quite empathetic to the victims and understood our proposal well, but it did not pass Parliament's test, it was rejected. My final question, the sixth in the first round, after which I shall give the floor to Mr D'Haese, is the following. How do you see this process? Anything else getting changed? Is there something in the making? Can you say something in this respect to reassure the countless victims who are absolutely not ready to be faced with this calvary journey again next year, even if it is only next year? Madam President, in a first round I would very much like to limit my speaking time. I know we don't have much time. On technical issues, we will come back in a second round, but I would like to add my colleague, Mr D'Haese.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u3	Madam President, I would very much like to endorse Mr Metsu's wise words and question. You will have noticed that he has put forward six questions. As it fits into a good rule of law, there is a perfect balance between perpetrators and victims. Three questions concern the perpetrators and three relate to the victims. The pieces we have received, over 600 pages, are actually a multi-headed dragon. There's an incredible amount in it. I would like to thank the people behind the documents by this route for what has already been written out. The sad thing is that it is not well coordinated or translated. Mr Pivin has already pointed out that certain documents have been drawn up in the other language. Out of respect for the rule of law, I think we should deal with it in an appropriate way. Do you also notice that I have listened very carefully and critically to the fact that in the coverage of the commemoration of the attacks there is hardly any mention of the motives of the perpetrators? Really, read the articles, the beautiful speeches and the messages. It is striking, officials and journalists are clearly struggling with an inconvenient truth, to quote that word in a different context here. No, our country did not suddenly become victims of anonymous acts of terror that were a form of senseless violence. Terrorism was based on radical Muslims. Organisations like ISIS, Boko Haram, Taliban and Al Qaeda have already killed tens of thousands all over the world. By the way, most of the victims are other Muslims. In Europe there have been casualties, not only in us, but also in the United Kingdom, Germany and Sweden. I also had the opportunity to have a very long conversation with the French Prosecutor of the King on the occasion of our committee of inquiry's visit to France. That has made a very deep impression on me. I think we have a more than moral duty to deal with the findings of the Committee of Inquiry in an appropriate manner. In my turn and without having agreed, I also have six themes, which are perfectly in line with what Mr Koen Metsu has put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be our intention to make a plea to each of us pro domo. We really must do something for the victims and do something to combat this terrible form of crime. I think it is a good thing that our committee is working on what Parliament is being given. This is perfectly summarized in the follow-up table with six important legal and scientific coat-sticks. Those six coat poles can also be a follow-up to further research. Each of these facets must be placed under the legal and scientific magnifying glass. The first is information management, which is more topical than ever. Think of the problem of encrypted communication, its uncovering and its legality. The second theme is the judicial police, the role of the judicial police and the reorganisation of the DJSOC. What would happen to that, by the way? What are the concrete improvements in that? Thirdly, we also see that justice is human work. The third theme is hrm, recruitment and selection in people who can use a performant and adequate device. Fourthly, we have had a very captivating testimony from Peter De Buysser about international police cooperation. It's been too long since I've heard anything about liaison officers. The fifth theme is about administrative police. More and more attention is being paid to this problem. Some legislative initiatives are in the docks, but I think we really need to make the most of them. A final theme is all that has to do with integrity, integrity within the entire police. This debate certainly has links with other social discussions, including the fight against drugs, a very important issue which we certainly need to keep in mind. One element that I would like to mention, and which I will certainly come back to, is the insane operation we are facing, namely the organisation of that assistance process. The victim will also need to be paid attention to this. I've done some assists in my life. I must not hide from you that any trial can be beneficial to the victims. As Mr Metsu pointed out, the process is a very difficult moment for each victim in particular. We must therefore be extremely vigilant that we should also provide the victims with the necessary assistance for the duration of the immense process. After all, they are with many and the suffering is immense. Madam President, in order not to fall into monologues too much, perhaps we can look at how we can develop a modus operandi with the committee, taking into account the findings that have been approved by opposition and majority in the Chamber and unanimously. It is a heavy piece of work from which we can only learn. The test that we certainly need to do, and which the N-VA Group will certainly monitor, is to look at how the objectives on which there was consensus are in practice shaped for the benefit of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u4	Madam President, I will speak and my colleague, Mr Thibaut, may take the floor in a second round or at the end. Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation last week. Colleagues, I have a few points of concern that have been going on for a while and which I would like to list now. We have heard a lot of testimonies from victims over the last few days. In addition to the positive experiences with aid workers and treating doctors as well as with the enormous use of individuals, reference was rightly made to the work in the Victims' Fund, especially we heard a lot of anger and bitterness on the system that does not work and rather opposes, that does not help the victims, but increases their suffering and that still inhibits and frustrates them after five years. It is a structural problem which, despite the many recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, has not yet been fully resolved. It was a strong report of over a thousand pages with many recommendations, many of which have been carried out and are in progress. However, especially the part about helping victims is a problem. What are the Belgian problems for which we must try to find solutions over the coming months and years? There are problems with the recognition of physical, but also of psychological injuries. There is still a very big problem with assessing the damage. The stories about the many, ever-recurring investigations are known. There are several problems there. A first problem is the conflicting findings and very large differences in the determinations of rates of disability. We were able to read testimonies of victims, where the health insurance doctor estimates the disability at 68 % and an independent medical doctor between 60 and 70 %, while insurers estimate the disability at 10 to 12 %. You can't do this. The major problem in assessing permanent disability is that insurers prefer to pay as little as possible. They try to get the victims to sign an agreement with the lowest possible percentage of disability. Those who do not agree can start to sue, often for years, which costs a lot of money and, above all, a lot of energy, energy that the victims often do not have and which they need to get on top of themselves. A second observation is that the experts and the auditors often work for the insurers. This is a problem that arises not only in cases of terror, but also in other cases of damage, such as road accidents. Many control doctors and experts who are appointed also work for insurance companies. This often leads to rates of disability that are much lower than should be expected. We've been discussing this in the Chamber for years. That lack of objectivity or at least the appearance of objectivity and impartiality is a major problem. My group and I have already suggested that we move towards a system where experts should choose. Either they work as an insurance supervisory doctor or they work as an independent expert, appointed by the Justice Department or by the government, but combining the two is not a good thing. Many of the poignant stories we hear can be traced back to this problem, to this conflict. A complaint we have often heard is about establishing post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSS). This is an old very and has often been mentioned: in Belgium, there is actually too little expertise in control doctors and experts to be able to establish PTSD. There were also very clear testimonies about this. For example, there are dozens of expert files that refuse to see a link between mental problems and the attack. There is also no clear list of recognised traumatic therapists and that does not make it any easier. A foreign victim of the attack in Brussels testified in the newspaper that he had an expertise carried out in Belgium: his post-traumatic stress trauma was assessed low. In his own country, this was transferred to a specialized hospital with experience of post-traumatic stress on soldiers coming from war zones, and his psychological damage was estimated five times higher. What can we do about it? The government must take initiatives to ensure that we effectively have more expertise in our country and that that expertise is also deployed, that training is provided and that victims of post-traumatic stress............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Problems have also been raised in relation to the right to a recovery pension. That is not the competence of one of the two ministers here, but it is often the same problem, namely determining the degree of disability, which must be at least 10%, while many victims fail to do so, often also on the basis of contradictory findings by various experts and supervisory doctors. That too is a problem that really needs to be addressed. I come to the discussion about the fund, Minister, the elephant in the room. I was shocked when I read that the recommendation on the creation of such a fund would not be implemented, especially since the coalition agreement explicitly states that all the recommendations of the committee of inquiry would be implemented. I note in particular that there is a great deal of confusion about what has been decided in the past and what its scope was. You said that in the previous legislature, in 2018, Parliament chose to raise the ceiling for emergency aid by the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors from EUR 30,000 to EUR 125,000. That was indeed laid down in a law in 2019. You said, however, that the committee's recommendation was implemented and I do not agree with that. In the preparatory work of the 2019 Law, which was discussed in the committee and plenary at the end of 2018, I looked into how this discussion actually went. We absolutely cannot draw that conclusion. It is true that the ceilings for emergency aid have been raised. However, as you said, we are talking about ceilings for emergency aid. It's about advances. It is not about the payment of definitive payments, about reparations. The decision to increase the ceilings for emergency aid was, of course, a good thing, but such a system is independent of the creation of a fund that will have to address similar problems in the future in a more structural way. That is why amendments were tabled during the discussion of these draft laws, first during the discussion in committee in December 2018 and then in plenary. Those amendments included an addition to the text. It was not a question of replacing the reimbursement of emergency aid. No, it was extra articles. That addition involved the creation of such a fund. The amendments were tabled in committee by Mrs Onkelinx, representatives of sp.a, Mr Brotcorne of cdH and myself. They were voted out by the then majority parties, who did not want such a fund. You should read it in the report, Mrs Onkelinx rightly said that the problem with the text is that he says that the committee for financial aid to victims is a first-line actor with the right to subrogate, but at the same time has a very limited margin of manoeuvre. After all, it is not a guarantee fund and therefore does not pay any reparation fees. That was only a limited progress at the time. That view runs counter to what the Committee of Inquiry asked. A guarantee fund should have been set up to ensure rapid and adequate compensation for all victims, irrespective of their origin and place of residence, in the same way. The answer of the then Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, also indicated that that decision did not really have to be an end, that the work had not yet been completed. He literally said, I quote from the report of the committee session: 'The French regime is not bad. It allows rapid compensation for the victims, without involving the insurance companies. It is conceivable that such a scheme will ever be introduced in Belgium. However, the Minister points out the shortcomings of the French scheme." Then the Minister rightly argued why the scheme as it exists in France also has some drawbacks. The Minister clearly indicated that a more fundamental arrangement was something we could work on in the future. Then there is great confusion, because the Minister says: "The Committee of Inquiry has asked to set up a fund with a system of placement against the insurance companies based on the law of 1 April 2011. The Minister was convinced in good faith that the Committee of Inquiry referred to the law of 1 April 2007.' That is what the report says and that is where it went wrong: the law of 1 April 2011 referred to by Minister Geens and referred to in the report does not exist. The law of 1 April 2011 does not exist. There are two other laws: the Law of 13 November 2011 regulating damage from technological accidents and the Law of 1 April 2007 on compensation to insurance companies in the event of terrorist acts. There has been confusion between these two laws. The model envisaged by the Committee of Inquiry was that of the Technological Accidents Act of 13 November 2011, which was also cited in detail in the report. That law came after the gas disaster in Ghislenghien, which we all remember. There were also similar problems: different parties, different insurers, some ten even, BA insurers from various companies, bodies and clients involved. Some victims were at work, some victims were on their way to work and so on. Victims were sent from the locker to the wall. There is now a robust law for victims of technological disasters and there is also a need for a law for victims of terrorist acts. That was the model envisaged by the Committee of Inquiry and that is what we are advocating. If we ever make that model, it will never solve the problems of the victims of the attacks of five years ago, but it can ensure that, if there are similar attacks in the future, hopefully there will not be a robust system that can help the victims and avoid dealing with such administrative and legal burdens. I will conclude with a call for a very thorough review of the discussion of the 2019 law in the Chamber and the recommendation, because there is a misunderstanding about what has been said and intended for a wrong date of a law to which reference is made. I am really convinced that we need to take the step to make a robust law for the future. Madam Minister, are you also prepared to take that step, because that would be an important instrument for the future? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interventions last week. On the eve of this sad anniversary, it was important to take stock of the follow-up to the recommendations. You have given us a series of information. We received a large 600-page document. We would probably have preferred a clearer picture, but we did. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work that has been done in setting up the Joint Decision Centers and the Joint Intelligence Centers. It is a work that really reflects what my group was advocating in terms of organisation and operation. I hear this is happening in every borough. It is important that these centres be present in each district. I would have liked to have a little more details in this regard at the borough level. Minister, you mentioned Carrefour Bank on Friday. As has been said, it is an essential tool in the proper flow of information, a tool that can be effective. Is this Carrefour Bank in place? What about today's implementation of the new Memorandum R? What about the follow-up to the Canal Plan, which should include reinforcements for the local police areas involved? The difficulties in maintaining these officers in the field have long been apparent. What about today? Finally, much has been said about compensation and support for victims. A series of legislative measures have been taken for victims. There's still work to be done. If there are still reflections, are they for the victims of past events or is it a reflection on future rights? It is our responsibility that an amount of 1.6 million has been released in favour of victims' associations in order to strengthen the accompaniment. Can you confirm that this is the case? When will these funds be available? How does this look from the point of view of concrete support for victims? Various avenues are being explored at the moment and we are still looking for pragmatic solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u6	I must agree with Mr D'Haese. I too have had to look in the coverage and in the speeches at the commemorations about the cause of these attacks: they were Islam fundamentalists. We must not forget that and we must name it. The political establishment is a little afraid to name it. Mr Van Quickenborne gave the example last week. One is now trying to put up a story as if the fight against supposedly extreme right-wing is the main priority and that is actually in the same category as the violent extreme acts of terror of Islam fundamentalists. Of course, nothing less is true. In this way one tries to divert attention from the real danger, namely Islam fundamentalism. Figures requested by Mr Creyelman from Mr Van Quickenborne show that 662 victims of the attack in Zaventem and 166 victims of those still waiting for compensation from the victim's fund in the Brussels metro. It's numbers to get dizzy. However, one of the recommendations was that a guarantee fund should be set up. There's no guarantee fund. An alternative is being created, namely a Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. That committee is bound by very strict legislation. The government is very light about the consequences of this choice. This committee examines the granting of financial aid, but does not give any guarantee that the aid will actually be granted. The amounts that can be paid are also limited to EUR 125 000. However, the recommendation expressly stated that the actual costs incurred by the victims must be reimbursed. A limit of EUR 125,000 will be absolutely insufficient for a number of victims. The deadline has now expired. The victims were granted a period of three years from the date that the facts were officially recognised as terrorism. In concrete terms, this means that the deadline expires on 18 March 2020. Many victims will therefore no longer receive compensation because the deadlines have simply expired. Unless they are bourgeois parties in the context of a terrorist process that is already known to start in September 2022. So it will be very long and scared days for the victims who will have to go through a very painful procedure again. Mr Minister, there are actually only two possibilities. Either the law will be amended on urgency, the deadlines will be extended and the amounts that can be paid by the fund, on the basis of the damage actually suffered, or a guarantee fund will still be set up. I think you have no alternatives beyond these two options. I have some specific questions for Minister Verlinden. Madam Minister, I understand from what you said last week that, as far as local police are concerned, you have a preventive and informative role to play. I wonder why we should confine ourselves to a preventive and informative role. Why should they not be given proactive and reactive action points? In my opinion, the role of the district agent is essential, including in recognising and identifying early detection and receiving signals of radicalisation. You know that, in many cases, minor crimes precede that. I think that the role of the district agent is crucial. But this function must be capable of being exercised. After all, we all know the major problem areas in our cities. But right there, our police units have a shortage of manpower and financial resources, just where it is crucial. I refer, by the way, to the Channel Plan, once rolled out by your predecessor, which in the end has remained largely dead letter. Madam Secretary, I would like to propose a Channel Plan bis. In this way we can actually go back to the problem areas and put things in order, with early detection, the detection of minor crimes, but also the reception of signals of radicalisation. As far as the latter is concerned, almost every municipality has included an action plan on radicalisation in the security plan, such as in my municipality, the national Deinze. I wonder if this is the right way. We know very well where the problems are. There is no point in not naming the perpetrators and the real problem, namely Islam fundamentalists. With it must be named and one must find them where they are. I can assure you, Madam Secretary, that, fortunately, they do not live around my corner. I also received an email, Mrs Verlinden, from an inspector at the airport inspection and security at Brussels Airport. He was active on the day of the attacks and took the first-line function to heart. Due to circumstances, inspectors were deprived of their mandate, equipment and weapons. They asked several politicians to be restored, but they got zero on the record. The result was that they lost their weapons two years later and that the CEO of Brussels Airport abandoned those people. Madam Secretary, do you also have a solution for that category of security officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, on the occasion of the commemoration of the attacks, I read the interview of Mr Dantinne, who was one of our experts during the Attentats Committee. Dantinne, who still has intelligent and interesting comments, said, "The danger would be to believe that this will not happen again." I believe that, indeed, we must keep this in mind. We mustn't believe that the threat today is zero. It may have been undermined by the pandemic, but it must still be recognized that the extremist situation and ideology and radical Islamism still represent very strong concepts, both outside Europe and within our countries. Perhaps it was because we did not properly integrate or measure this magnitude five years ago that we failed to anticipate the attacks that took place in our territory as we would have wished. Six or seven months ago a European report – which I also mentioned – was published on the situation and trends of terrorism in the European Union. The report presented a total of 119 terrorist attacks that were foiled and reported by only 13 members of the European Union, only over the past year. In addition, 1,004 persons were arrested on suspicion of terrorism-related offences in 19 EU Member States, including France, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and Belgium. These were the countries with the highest number of offenders among the 1,004 arrested for all the attacks committed or foiled. Last December, the European Council adopted conclusions on internal security and the European Police Partnership, which aim to further improve cooperation in this area. Remember, Madam and Minister, that police cooperation was already at the heart of our discussions five years ago. Five years later, it is still at the heart of the discussions at the European Council. For me, this European cooperation in judicial and police matters must be pursued. The exchange of information, the standardization of records, the management of combatants abroad, and Belgian nationals in an international court to try Belgian Islamists still present in camps abroad, such as Syria and Iraq, are all acute problems that we must solve. In Belgium, major projects are still pending. I have already mentioned this point during my speech on Friday, although it was rather focused on the issue of victim assistance. I am thinking in particular of the fight against radicalism. What is the status of the list of weak signals that appears among the recommendations of the Attentats Commission? What more is being done to combat the risks of proselytism in prisons? How do the Deradex sections work today? How is the control of the works in prison done? Remember, colleagues, that last year we discussed these questions concerning the somewhat particular books still circulating in our prisons! I am still waiting to see how we can improve the follow-up between the federal government and the Inmate Assistance Service, which is within the competence of the Communities' services. I also look forward to seeing how to strengthen and improve the effectiveness of deradicalization programs. There is also the issue of monitoring and information, with – I will not come back – the problems of staff reinforcement and the means of State Security, SGRS, OCAM, etc. I would also like to know how many CSILs are active in Belgian municipalities. The numbers I have in my memory are very eloquent. A year or two ago, in Flanders, it was already working very well. In Wallonia and Brussels, we had to say "can do better", as we put it on the children's bulletin. Have we done better in this area? How will we strengthen the NRP? In the Committee P's accompanying committee last year, I remember a report that indicated that the NRP would be good if all airlines adhered to it! This is not yet the case. How will we expand the NRP to include other public transport? In short, many questions still arise. But, Madam and Mr Ministers, the fundamental question is that of methodology. Last Friday's meeting was timely, necessary and constructive. We received a 600-page document that we were asked to compare with the last 300-page document that dates from 2019 or 2020. It will not be easy if, as I have said and as Christoph D'Haese has just reminded us, we are not given a translation of the majority of the documents that have been communicated to us. It is already not easy to compare a 600-page document with another 300-page document, but if, in addition, they are not written in both national languages, it becomes frankly complicated for parliamentarians even though they are more aware of these issues than others. In terms of methodology, how are we going to do this? It is not only a question of translation of documents, but also of transversality. I have not seen any member of the Health Committee. However, the latter is largely concerned with the problem. The Committee on Mobility could also be involved. Remember that, in the context of the Attentats Committee, there was a lot of talk about mobility skills when Zaventem was mentioned. Liaison officers who report to Foreign Affairs have also been frequently referred to. Very many materials are transversal. This is part of a discussion that focuses on the interior and justice, but in reality the discussion is about much broader issues. I am therefore clearly asking the question of methodology. How are we going to do this? Will we continue to meet only the Justice and Home Affairs Committees or will we see things differently by making an enlargement? That's what I had to say in the first round on behalf of the MR. This may be the only time I'm going to intervene. I believe that enough questions have already been asked and that it is the answers that take precedence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u8	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulty of dealing with a problem at parliamentary level is always that there is no holistic approach, at best a layered approach. That's federal in this case. In the case of terrorism, a security and penalty approach is usually taken. This is an interesting point of view for some people, as it is an interesting point of view for others in corona ideologically to speak only about the sanitary aspect. We are so intertwined that, apparently, we prefer to approach a particular problem from one angle, as if that angle could only bring about the solution of the problem. What has always hurt me in the discussion is that the preventive aspect is not or hardly addressed, except when it comes to religion and prison succession. If prevention is not served there, then it can also benefit ideologically with great pleasure. It is not right that social integration, equal opportunities, education and education should all remain out of the question at home and that all colleagues responsible for these fields should continue to act as if nothing was wrong. I shall therefore confine myself to this committee. I just want to make it clear with this statement that justice and security are constantly being executed, and the problem is far wider. If we want everyone to be checked on a permanent basis, which is not allowed in the name of privacy, then we must continue to do so. We have a lot of discussions here about privacy, which are particularly interesting, but if privacy is not seriously restricted, the security that many of you want to achieve when they try to take electoral advantage of this theme cannot be achieved. Sometimes it's one thing or the other. Secondly, as far as prevention is concerned. I am now focusing on religion because this is the authority of this committee. Honorary services fall under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. I must say that I am holding my heart on the direction we are going in this area. I have testified in the European Parliament. I listened in the Flemish Parliament. I have listened in this House. I never hear anything but Belgian Islam and European Islam. Those are beautiful slogans. The Sunnis have no hierarchy, the Shiites do. In Belgium we mainly deal with Sunnis, Turks and Moroccans. To say that one wants to make a Belgian, European Islam is incredibly interesting, but not if one does not do everything to achieve it. I pray you, Madam and Minister, not to deal with this problem as it is usually treated, in the vein of Islam is antiques, because they are not for homosexuality, which is reprehensible, we have been for homosexuality since the beginning of time and they must therefore adapt. This requires centuries of patience and in this case years of patience. What we did in the previous legislature to get Muslim executive and imam education somewhere was a monk's work. I pray you, Minister of Justice, not to throw this away. It is too easy not to see that this will be a problem of ten, twenty, thirty years. There are no ready-made solutions with a religion that has no hierarchy. As far as detection is concerned, I am looking with suspicion at the forthcoming judgment of the Constitutional Court on data retention. Over the last five to six years, we have been playing yojo with the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court on whether providers should keep their dates. Time and time again, the privacy organisations go to the Constitutional Court, which repeatedly asks a question to the European Court of Justice, and each time the European Court of Justice chooses the privacy side. It has done so again recently, in autumn 2020 and soon the Constitutional Court will review and perhaps destroy a Belgian law on data retention for the third time. If our security services want to work correctly and within the limits of legality, data retention is relatively to very essential. So you will somehow have to work on a backup solution in case the Constitutional Court does what it may be feared will do. This is crucial for the proper functioning of our security. It's a technical issue but it means that Proximus, Telenet and the others have to keep their data and communicate it at the request of an investigating judge. It's not just about terrorists. It could also be about finding kidnapped children, colleagues. Privacy is important, but if I can find with a pole that collects data a kidnapped child who was kidnapped three weeks earlier under that pole, then I would rather have an invasion of the privacy that would supposedly exist, allowed by an investigating judge than not to have it. We must also continue to oppose it at European level. It is crucial for safety. In that same perspective of tracking I like to tell you something about e-evidence, the ability to access foreign networks, starting with Yahoo!, WhatsApp and a lot of others that are encrypted with a so-called end-to-end encryption. You can see that when you send a whatsapp message. We find this very difficult, unless with the consent of the foreign provider who does not give the consent by definition and who usually has the servers in Ireland. The United States has adopted a cloud act on that piece in an instant in 2018. It is crucial that Europe does the same to allow our investigators, when necessary, to consult those Irish servers, which include Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. If necessary, Ireland must have some money to make it easier. As far as detection is concerned, I mention the talent aspect. There is a great deal of unimaginable solution in our country by replying to the fact that we do not have the necessary resources. For example, Parliament cannot work properly, Madam President, because we have no resources. That is the passe-partout answer that I hear again and again when it comes to a concrete issue. When it comes to justice and security, that answer is true and false. It is true because most people in the police and the judiciary are not allowed to work in the physically comfortable conditions in which we are allowed to work. That is a pity, because having decent chairs and tables, a decent desk, decent warmth and ventilation, constitutes a quarter of the work pleasure. However, it is much more important that the technical resources and the technical people are available. I sometimes get scared when I see the numbers of our people working in the police and the justice department. Those who become Minister of Justice suddenly discover that they have almost 25,000 employees under them. About 40,000 to 50,000 police officers depend on the authority of the Home Secretary. Those are huge numbers and we take care of them with small budgets. Fortunately, the new government has the opportunity to take the budgets a little more broadly, and I hope that this will remain the case regardless of the corona crisis. However, there is a relatively small budget available for a huge amount of people. My point is this. If one wants to be a performer at the level of federal judicial police, at the level of certain public prosecutors, not to mention the federal prosecutor, then one must be able to reward those people exceptionally well for a public function. It's hard to keep people in Brussels. It is difficult to continue attracting the best people for the top services, for example the FCCU. We must ensure that this can continue to happen, including for the security of the state. Last point, maybe double, triple: assists for the terror process. Mr and Madam Minister, I bite a piece of my tongue, I bite off one more, and one more, but if it were still necessary to review the law at a point or a comma, so that the assistance process that the majority absolutely wants could be more favourable, let us vote for that law. With, of course, an assist process, I got that right. This is, I bite a piece of my tongue, something that should go as well as possible. That is why the procedure is being worked out and it is being examined whether something can be done here, so that we can be sure that this process is going right. We cannot afford any reputational damage in this area at international level. If that is how it is to be done in France, it is fortunately also assists, and even by profession, that it will be perfect. I'll get to the victims. Mr Van Hecke, you have a good memory. Me too. I think we agree, but I think that if the victim committee had meant that a settlement should have been drawn up before this crisis, in accordance with the law of 13 November 2011, it would have been better to express itself. I've always thought she meant this was for the future. In that sense, I also spoke at the time. If Mrs Onkelinx, who wrote the law of 1 April 2007, on compulsory insurance against terrorism, does not clarify that misunderstanding in her report in good time, I cannot do so. However, when I see 1 April, I am thinking of the law on compulsory insurance against terrorism. I know the law of 13 November 2011, because we improved it in 2017 to ensure the faultless liability of the gas companies in the case of Ghislenghien. So it is certainly not true that we were wrong there. April 1st is an important date. The reason why we, and we have defected thousands of times, did not get away was because there was this mandatory insurance against terrorism. That was a new law, brand-new. She was approved to serve if there was terror. It entered into force immediately, with the TRIP system. We have discovered that insurers are slow. But insurers are also slow in all other cases of similar damage. There is no comparable damage, but they are also slow in all the other cases. If I focus only on the future, an important question for us will be the next. Madam President, I think it is important that this is a topic that we discuss when you select topics for a next plenary session. Some colleagues abroad say that they do not want to make something specific for victims of terrorism, because everyone is equal before the law. Do we want to follow that slope or do we want to do something specific? Whether we do one thing or another, whether we create a guarantee fund only for victims of terrorism, as you suggest and what the follow-up committee suggested, or not, we will have to ensure that some things work better in the compensation of victims tout court. If a case of a child crashed in a bicycle accident is still before the police court ten years later, unfortunately there is not the sounding board that the victims had yesterday, but the same problem. For medical expertise in damages and insurance, we clearly lack manpower and speed. That's terribly important for all the victims. We tried to do something about the independence of those experts in the previous legislature. I have no opinion on whether it should be primarily for one or the other. So I can imagine a terrorist victim being seen as a victim replacing the state, because it is the state that should have been hit. Aldo Moro was shot, not all kinds of other people. I understand. One can try. There are countries that have opinions in one sense or another. However, we are failing across the board, both in the justice system and in the expertise system. It would be important for the victims of terrorism to allow us to see that it is also a serious problem elsewhere. The Coaches of Justice is a very good idea. I'm glad you realized that. Much of what happens following the report will apply to the future. Among other things, this is the case for the unique window. We will recognise the victims of terrorism if we ensure that in the future things will improve in many ways, although it may be a patch on a wooden leg. We must make the most of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary, on behalf of my group, but also personally, I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the many victims and to the hundreds of injured for the great suffering they have suffered and continue to suffer today as a result of these horrific events. We also notice this in the many testimonies of the past few days. 22 March remains a serious scar forever and we cannot repeat enough that these victims deserve the necessary support and guidance and respect. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has done hard work, heard many of these people and made important recommendations. We were therefore sent a very comprehensive document last week evaluating all these recommendations. I won't repeat myself. After all, colleagues have already asked a lot of questions, and the ministers gave their explanations on Friday. However, I have four short questions that I would like to ask you. Firstly, following the horrific events of five years ago, it has been found that many of these perpetrators had previously come into contact with the police and the judiciary and also had contact with people who were familiar with our security services. Everyone has been talking about radicalisation in recent years, a popular and widely used word. The Bock has made interesting observations about this. My question is therefore whether after so many years, with the experience we have, we can say that deradicalisation works. How can we evaluate the different projects today? Secondly, I understand that you have doubts about continuing imam training in our country. This was one of the important recommendations that has not been made after five years. Mrs Demir, competent at Flemish level, also made statements in this sense in the past. Could you give us a little more explanation? In my third question I would like to mention a number of things that some of my colleagues have already mentioned. In recent years, cooperation between different intelligence and security services has grown. They note that deradicalisation and tendency to terrorism are still in the same form as at the time of the attacks, although there are significant changes in nature and appearance. In other words, is it still dominant Muslim extremistism, or is there also an increase in the far right? Finally, I would like to return to Mr Metsu's speech on the important process that is coming next year. I have already spoken in committee on the legislative proposal before us. In that discussion, the Minister outlined the advantages and disadvantages of the different procedures and scenarios, either correctly or for assists. For our group, I would like to stress once again that we believe that the most important thing is that this matter should be dealt with correctly. It is a far-reaching process for all concerned. Last year we found that there are risks associated with both scenarios. The rights of all parties involved in the process should be guaranteed at any time. Everyone in this hemisphere knows that, of course, it will not be an easy procedure. We are certainly not insensitive to Mr Van Leeuw and Mr Dernicourt's sound and well-founded reasoning on the consequences of such a large process with so many people involved. However, it has been decided to proceed with the assistance process. The correct treatment, worthy of the rule of law, as Mr Geens said, is the most important thing for us. The case must also be able to purify all victims. We cannot reverse the clock, however unfortunate it may be, but we can certainly ensure that the necessary support is given to all the victims during this process. I would ask you, Minister, to clarify this matter. A comprehensive victim support system already exists. Our country, as well as Justice, has evolved enormously in recent years. Will further efforts be made in response to the 2022 process? You already announced coaches, which is a good idea. Will they also play a role in the process? We have always stressed that this Parliament and the government, whatever was decided upon, will ultimately take a final decision to ensure that this can be done in good conditions and that justice is also able to organise such a large-scale process properly. I think we should do everything we can to organize that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u10	Colleagues, Minister, Minister, Mrs Gabriels has already made a statement on behalf of my group, but I would just like to say a few words on the occasion of the recent sad birthday and the image we have once again received of victims who continue to testify that they are not being done justice and that after so many years they still feel referred to this catastrophe. When I was at the Home Office a long time ago, I was confronted with the disaster of Gellingen. I deliberately go back to that, because this led to the law of 2007. In the treatment of the victims and the occurrence of that victim, I observe fairly identical processes. That was of a different nature at the time, but it was also a devastating catastrophe, where victims had the firm conviction, they could not yet be contradicted, that they were sent from the locker to the wall, that insurers were set up in a tough way and that insurers were difficult to overcome, even with commissions. I remember an intervention by the then Prime Minister at Assuralia to force the insurers to do something. We then worked out the law of 2007. It is that 2007 law to which Mr Van Hecke also referred in connection with the misconception that arose. He was right to point out a misconception in the reading of legislation relating to natural disasters and another law that came later and could serve as a basis for a system of subrogation. I will come back to that later. Madam Minister, Minister, I would just like to say that the Committee of Inquiry has indeed made a distinction. On the one hand, there is provision for a future regulation, which should be made for the victims. It cannot, of course, apply to the compensation of the current victims, however much one would like to. Those rules cannot be changed in the course of the procedure. It's a future system. On the other hand, it is foreseen to alleviate the suffering of the victims in the handling of their individual damages. I consciously take the floor in the chapter on the victims, because I have always experienced this personally as one of the most painful confrontations. I was firmly convinced that our police and intelligence system needed a lot of recommendations and improvements, and this has been done, but I have always been convinced that it was the most difficult dialogue with the victims, which we have tried to establish. First of all, I would like to say something about the future system. That system is still confused today with what is happening today or is not happening in the handling of individual injury cases. We were regularly referred to systems as there are in the United States and France. One can talk about an attack against the nation, in the United States one looked at it like that, as war, and anyone who is the victim of it, regardless of nationality, can claim compensation paid by the government. The government is then subrogated in the rights of those victims and then has to turn against insurers and others. That's actually the system that our expert Paul Martens also advocated and that I found a defendable system for the future. Of course, one must always be careful what effects that has on victims of other damages, common law and so on, but something like what happened on 22 March 2016 is extraordinary and was by nature a terrorist attack. I thought it justified that in the future there would be a clear system in which the victims would not be victims for a second time, in which they would not be sent from the locker to the wall and in which they would not be sent from insurer to insurer, with always other and new auditors, who would always ask them to bring their story forward, because that is painful and degrading. What happened in practice? We've been investigating that system. Our committee has even prepared a legislative proposal on the matter, which was actually a copy of the French system, and I do not want to be blind to system errors either. I was convinced that we could not simply copy the French system, also because in France there is another system of taxation and valuation by insurance companies. I would like to endorse what Mr Van Hecke said just now for the future, for future attacks. I have heard colleague None and he said several times "I pray you." Maybe we should not pray, but hope that we will be spared from subsequent attacks, although it can never be ruled out. I would like to do an exercise to make such a system operational in the future. Parliament must accept its responsibility and I would ask the government to take this to heart effectively. The day-to-day handling of the damage cases, of course, is not an image of this when the media have been monitored in the past few days, but on the other hand, on the basis of what the committee has recommended and what has been translated into practice, we can see that many things have improved. Remember that we argued in favour of the unique window. We have advocated the interfederal task force. We have advocated an increase in those provisional benefits, the compensation system. We have praised Mr Mollens, an excellent official, because we have gone to those amounts of EUR 125 000 fees. They are sensitive and extended to psychological and moral damage. All of that happened, but still. In practice, we saw that the handling of these individual injury cases was still difficult. In a number of personal testimonies, we've all heard that. We still see that today, five years after date. There are still people with their files to go from one window to another, they are being advanced by control doctors for all kinds of investigations. Those people testify, not wrongly, that they are victims a second time. That is why I welcome the initiative taken by the Minister of Justice to assist these coaches. Those coaches are necessary because for a victim of such an attack a helping hand is very important, he must also be accompanied in that search for recognition. That's what I've heard most in the last few days. We are asking for recognition of this statute, of what has happened. Sometimes it's said that these people are looking for money. In many cases it is not about money, but those people are often alone in dealing with their grief. That's why I think those coaches are a good initiative. Public authorities must all work together in this area, not just Justice and Home Affairs. That's why sessions like today are important. In addition to yesterday's ceremonies, we can see what can happen. So I'm making a double plea. Be particularly alert in emptying the daily pain and sorrows, but also be attentive to that search for a system that should replace our current system. In this case, we want the cases to be individually compensated in accordance with common law. It would be good to say, by analogy with the French or American system as a government, that this has been an attack on our territory and that we will compensate for that damage, we will be subrogated to your rights, we will take your task to heart there. I would like to add this to what has already been said, also by Mrs Gabriels, on behalf of the Open Group. However, I would like to express some of the consensus that existed in Parliament when the recommendations were made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u11	Minister, Minister, first of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we are very much with the families, the victims and the first responders of the March 22, 2016 attacks. I followed, like many people, the beautiful commemoration and the Prime Minister's speech. He said: "We are gathered here today to remember the victims of the terrorist attacks, to show our solidarity with the survivors, their families and friends, to express our gratitude to all those who helped". The Prime Minister also assured us that all of our security services are vigilant, ready to face more than ever. I have to say that this last statement trumps me. According to the returns of people from the field who work at Zaventem airport, there are no new security measures taken for years. Of course, six months after the attacks, things have been put in place, but since then, where have we really been? I will allow myself to quote Wim, an airport security officer who was one of the first responders and who saved the lives of his colleague Abdallah, a baggage manager at Swissport. He said: "In the first six months there were very strict controls. Only persons who had reason to be at the airport were allowed access to the airport. Baggage passed an explosive detection check before it could be taken into the building. Now everyone can enter and exit the departure hall without being controlled." The workers at the airport are the ones who know best how to take stock of the situation. The attacks, they have lived them live and they have been on the ground every day for the last five years. You have to listen to them. They all tell us: "We cannot rule out the possibility of this happening again". It is still worrying, do you not think, that the workers tell us that safety is not at the point? Anyway, I'm worried about it. Wim poses this deplorable observation! In general, I think Brussels Airport cares little about health and the people who work there. The observation is serious! Workers have a fundamental right to work in a secure environment. Brussels Airport is a public structure. The State is 25 per cent shareholder and is therefore fully responsible. Safety at work is also health security. To date, the information has been piecemeal. Workers are swept away between Brussels Airport communications and the hundreds of companies operating on the same site. There's no harmony. Do I have to say that it is not enough to express gratitude as this government does? We cannot be content with incomplete measures, or rather with a flagrant lack of action taken by the government. One specific example: it does not seem to me to be a good idea that staff should use the same entrance as passengers. During periods of heavy influxes, he has to line up with the passengers. It always makes workers uncomfortable. In addition, this makes it difficult to react to security officers. I think the airport operator did not learn enough from the attacks. Shortly after the attacks, a consultation was held between the BAC (Brussels Airport Company) and the various companies and unions of the airport. Since then, nothing! Before I was a Member of Parliament, I worked for 30 years in an American company in which I had the honour of being a union delegate. As such in the CCTP, I dealt with the safety and protection of workers, every month, we toured the company trying to act proactively. The problems were analysed when they arose, but above all we made sure that they did not reappear. That's what's called being proactive. This example could be followed at the airport. Such consultation should therefore take place on a monthly basis, in order to provide a structural solution to structural problems and to deal comprehensively with crises such as attacks or the current coronavirus pandemic. Minister, what security measures have been taken over the past three years? Has an evaluation of the airport security plan been conducted over the past three years? If yes, when was it done? Can you summarize the conclusions? Are you in favour of setting up a permanent consultation committee that would bring together trade union organisations, companies and the Brussels Airport company? Do you think this would also facilitate the establishment of coordinated security procedures in the face of the current health crisis? Do you intend to discuss this with your colleague Georges Gilkinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u12	March 22, 2016 is a day of which we all know exactly what we were doing, who we were with, and where we were. It is a day that is now ticked in black in our agenda, a very black page in our history. The attacks themselves immediately raised many questions. How did they happen? Could we have avoided them? Where have we failed? With the Committee of Inquiry, we have tried to formulate answers, which have then been translated into a whole series of recommendations. In the meantime, I have listened very carefully for an hour and a half. There is no way I can avoid repeating a number of recommendations. But I believe that a number of things have not yet been discussed. If we are talking purely about the recommendations contained in the aid package, I will come straight to some of the things I want to get out of it. One of the pain points during the attacks was the saturation of the mobile phone and the ASTRID network that made communication more difficult for adequate assistance. A recent study by the BIPT indicates a saturation of the network in Brussels. The result is that during peak times people are already having problems in some busy places, such as the Central Station or the European Quarter. I understand that this is not your competence, but it has an impact on communication in such events. My specific question is whether you take this into account. Are you looking at alternatives? Or does BE-Alert offer a solution in this case? The committee also found that we were not sufficiently prepared to deal with such a disaster scenario. There had been no evacuation exercise at the airport for years and the various emergency plans had hardly been prepared for terrorism. Evacuations must be practiced, especially with regard to the CBRN, the chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. However, the document does not make it clear to me what the situation is. Every once in a while these procedures are being practiced at the airport? The final aspect of these recommendations is the lack of coordination. In the interim report on the security architecture component, the Emergency Planning Committee noted that "Futurely after the attacks, the Royal Decree of 1 May 2016 establishing the National Emergency Plan on tackling a terrorist hostage take or terrorist attack was published. This plan is in line with the recommendation of this Committee of Inquiry to place the leadership in discipline 3, the police, in the terrorist attacks and to give the Public Prosecutor a more leading role." The logic of this Royal Decree is not consistent with the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning and management. After all, according to the evaluation of the follow-up to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of 2 October 2019 by Mr Bruggeman, the new Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 leaves open the discipline leading to terrorist attacks. This is contrary to the recommendations of the POC: discipline 3 must lead in this case. Could you clarify this for me, please? They agreed to put this with the police. Are you planning on adjusting this after all? Then there are the recommendations that relate to the victims. This has already been the subject of extensive debate today. Firstly, there is the central point of contact for the victims; one person who guides them through the whole bunch of insurance, support and help. I think we should be quite right to welcome the creation of a single victim's point of contact, the effective operation of this system and the use of two coaches to assist victims with administrative but also psychological and other problems. Nevertheless, the victims of the attacks in our country still do not feel enough government support after five years. They don't think it's possible that they have to prove that they're victims over and over again. You mentioned that you have listened carefully to the various recognised victims' associations over the last few months. Together with them, you would take a concrete initiative to meet their legitimate needs as much as possible. Mr Minister, could you give us a little more explanation on this matter? What steps will you take so that the victims feel even more supported? The following has already been discussed in great detail today. It was decided to set up a rapid compensation fund. Countries such as Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States, France and Israel have already been confronted with serious terrorist attacks. They developed a permanent and comprehensive regime for victims, well funded and accessible without nationality or residence conditions. Following the attacks of 22 March 2016, Belgium was faced with a legal vacuum in this area. The Committee of Inquiry therefore recommends that a fund be set up here too, which can provide aid and compensation to any victim very quickly. Afterwards, the fund must then recover the amounts due from the insurance companies. In the meantime, however, you announced that the fund will not be available. Emergency aid has been replaced by an emergency advance. The Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence does intervene with the victims in advance, but that is not quite the same as compensation through a Guarantee Fund, a pot of money that can be used immediately. I understand the choice, but neither the Committee of Inquiry nor the victims were asking parties to this. Perhaps I would have preferred to have seen a system such as that in France with emergency aid to meet the needs of the victims of attacks. These needs can also be very diverse. Is that piste out of the way now? Or is this still under consideration in the future? What initiatives will be taken to improve the compensation of the victims of terrorism? I have just listened very carefully to the other speakers and I think I have heard some opening with Mr Dewael. I come to the recommendations on security architecture. One of the recommendations was that crucial information was shared too little or not. I'd like to talk to you about that. In connection with the principle of the third-service or third-country rule, the VSSE is in discussion with its foreign sister services in order to examine how both concepts can be applied in the future and whether they can no longer be evolved towards the third-country rule. I know it's impossible to put a timeline on this and it's unclear if we can land. In anticipation of a possible solution, however, I have the question of how to ensure that important information is shared. I'm getting to the crossroads database with all the available information. The period in which each service had its own terrorist database is over, so much is clear. The vision paper on the Safety Crossroads database was approved by the Cabinets of Justice, Home Affairs and the various security and intelligence services. That note is an analysis of several working groups in which members of several departments are present. Good management arrangements are important for a safety crossroads bank. This also requires the necessary financial resources. Services will be planning IT projects over several years. Without additional resources and with the decision to create a crossroads bank, these projects will be put at risk. Minister, how do you see that? Is there a timing? Is there a budget? Do you have a view on clear management arrangements? Another thing from this chapter is the joint decision team, in which the police, the police and the intelligence services have to decide on files together. You report that in the current state of affairs it does not seem appropriate to simply implement the JDC or JIC in the other courts of appeal. However, the coalition agreement states: "The cooperation and exchange of information between security, intelligence and justice are optimised, in particular as regards the continuation of the creation of the Joint Decision Centers and the Joint Intelligence Centers." Minister, how do you intend to comply with the government agreement on this matter? Why is it not appropriate to continue the establishment in other courts? In what way is information shared? Why does that take so much time? What problems are there in concrete terms? The last part with recommendations dealt with the piece of radicalisation, including the plan R. The R plan is the hinge between the judicial, administrative and socio-preventive approach, the hinge between the federal, regional and local levels in addressing problematic radicalisation. We can read that the action plan is being upgraded to a strategic note on terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. Early detection and good risk assessment are central to this, as are a culture of trust and cooperation between the different services at all levels. The federal government, together with the Länder, will examine how it can strengthen and structurally anchor prevention policies in metropolitan environments with regard to radicalisation and extremism. Can you give me an update on that? Have there been any talks with the states? In what way will you, together with the Länder, strengthen and anchor prevention policies? Can you give me concrete examples of this? The last recommendation asked, among other things, to open up the Grand Mosque in Brussels and make it a place where everyone is welcome and where they could have their own imam training. In yesterday's De Standaard we could read that unfortunately this is not really a success story. I quote Minister Van Quickenborne: 'In the short term, we will look with the academic partners to see whether it makes sense to continue and whether we should not work on alternatives'. For this purpose, the Minister looks, among other things, at the Communities. Minister, how do you see it going? What role do you intend to play in this regard for the Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u13	Madam President, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, I would like to say how much I appreciated the words, and those of the Prime Minister, that you addressed to the victims. From the bench of the opposition, I could easily see only wind and words, but these are important as we commemorate these attacks. Moreover, it took a long time to find the words – especially on the side of the former government, but not only. We, as parliamentarians, have taken too long to meet the victims to hear their requests. Beyond words, which are essential, there are acts. I will not repeat Mr Van Hecke's demonstrations in favour of a guarantee fund. It is an instrument that can quickly and automatically compensate victims, rather than simply organising a system of advances. The purpose of this request was to replace a device described as a Kafkai by victims who felt completely lost and could not find their way through administrations, insurance and expertise. The danger of over-victimization was real. However, we have not been able to prevent the victims from becoming victims of the system itself. Five years after the attacks, they continue to feel very bad. We all know them. They still need bureaucratic simplification and a better determination of the disability rate, which is also less contradictory and more progressive. Some recalled that post-traumatic stress syndromes can occur long after the attacks. We have to take that into account. I will not come back to that, because I hear some colleagues from the majority – MM. Geens, Van Hecke and Dewael – plead for this question to be put back on the job. That seems fundamental to me. If the committee of inquiry had decided that it would be implemented in the future, it was because we had already taken a long time to discuss it, so that we had realized that it was a little late. This is a back-up solution. In order to ensure that this solution is not abandoned, I call for rapid intervention in this area. The same applies to the one-stop shop. Mr. Minister of Justice, I would like a clarification from you. You have agreed to fund the V-Europe association for victim coaching, which is why I thank you very much. For many years, this association has fought to receive federal support, and it has finally received it. I would like to clarify its role in relation to the one-stop shop. This association will not serve as a one-stop shop and elsewhere, it does not really exist yet. There is a mechanism at the federal prosecutor's level, but the victims tell me that it is neither unique nor satisfactory and that it does not follow the spirit of what was originally imagined. It seems to me that there is a need to clarify and strengthen what was planned. I will not be longer on the victims side, nor on the relief side that we have already discussed earlier. On the other hand, I will be a little more precise about the aspect of security architecture and, above all, that of radicalisation. With regard to the security architecture, it is recalled that there were two types of problems (in order to simplify to the extreme): a problem of means and an information management problem; the latter was insufficiently shared and databases were completely fragmented and did not allow adequate and rapid use of information that sometimes existed. With regard to means, I am concerned that there is little change in these resources, and almost no change in the intelligence services. I said it the last time: from 50 million euros in 2015 before the attacks, we rose to almost 57 million in 2021. In constant euros, no increase in the budget! We are far from what had been requested. We proposed doubling the budget for intelligence services. This remains problematic in view of a range of threats that have come in addition to the Islamist and terrorist threat. We are not going to talk about China, Russia or others, but we know how much our country is the target of a whole series of threats. I would therefore like to know the government's intentions for the years to come. The same applies to the police services. We know there's a huge shortage of police officers. From this point of view, too, I am sounding the alarm because I do not think that this will be achieved with the budgetary means currently on the government table. As far as information management is concerned, there is always this Bank-Carrefour of security data. Where are we? Is it really going to be started? What are the bottlenecks? As far as information sharing is concerned, I hear that the CSILs are now underfunded and that some are in a state of lethargy. I'd like to know how many CSILs were operational. Is this instrument still important today in terms of detection, information sharing and prevention? Furthermore, it is known that the Joint Decision Centers and the Joint Information Centers only exist at the Brussels level. Why are they not extended to other parts of the country? I have several small questions about radicalization. When I talk about this in Brussels with social educators, street educators and teachers, I hear that in the first confinement, when many young people were deprived of access to sports clubs, youth centres or cultural centres, they were taken over by Salafist groups and frerist groups. We then observed an intensification of the activities of these networks under the guise of humanitarian aid. What is your level of information in relation to the information given to me in the streets of Brussels? As far as social networks are concerned, I have been alerted that new social networks are extremely active with young people, especially in Brussels, but also, I imagine, in other cities in the country. I am regularly quoted as "AJ+", which broadcasts from the Persian Gulf and is intended to fragment society and antagonize people according to their religion. What is this threat posed to you by the new social networks that seem extremely active in Belgium? As far as prison releases are concerned, if I am well informed, 60 prisoners convicted "terrorist" have been released in 2020 or will be released in 2021. What is the security mechanism in relation to these people? What about a deradicalization and reintegration system to ensure that they are not only followed up on a security aspect? There is also the whole question of imams. As others say, there is the formation of imams here in Belgium. Personally, I very much want us not to give up this idea. An alternative would be that, especially at the time of Ramadan, dozens of imams, who do not know our culture or language, come from foreign countries, with objectives that we do not always master. The next Ramadan will begin on April 13, 2021. It's in a few weeks. What will happen with the applications that you certainly already receive to be able to grant visas to dozens of imams from Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Morocco or Egypt? Do you have a policy in this regard? I note that France is extremely reluctant today to grant visas. What will be the government's policy in this regard? What about the competition that exists between outside countries - I have just mentioned some of them - and which have the purpose of controlling and instrumentalizing our Muslim community? Mr. Minister of Justice, you rightly said that at the Great Mosque, a "nid of spies" was working for Morocco, if I understood your expression correctly. This is not the only example of a country today trying to interfere in Muslim worship and impose its own agenda from outside. Do we have a general strategy against this competition that exists in relation to third countries that would like to control our Muslim community? This remains an extremely important problem. In 2017, OCAM had written an extremely interesting report between Wahhabism and jihadism, terrorism. Are you both competent with the OCAM? Would it not be time to have an update of this report today? Four years later, I think it would be interesting to have an updated OCAM report on the current situation of wahabism and Salafism and possible links to the terrorist threat. Finally, Minister, what is the future of the Great Mosque in Brussels? What is the status of women and children in Al-Hol? This poses a real threat to our security because we know that it is today the embryo of a new Islamic State. I think I have reviewed the questions on radicalisation, and I would like to conclude with a brief comment on methodology. I am pleased that my colleague, Mr Pivin, joined the proposal I made months ago to ensure that these issues are followed up seriously. You have seen the magnitude of the questions you have to answer, and we must refer to them very briefly. In about 10 minutes, we must cover 1,000 pages and 10,000 pages of annexes to the Committee of Inquiry's follow-up report, and I do not think that is serious. Other ministers are responsible for certain aspects of the follow-up to the Attentats Committee. I really ask that there be a working methodology that allows for serious follow-up work. A lot has been done, but there are still very important projects to be finalized, and I think we need to do this seriously. When I was told that one of the reasons why there was no monitoring committee was that all the Members who had followed the committee were no longer here today, I think that argument is absolutely not admissible. The proof is that the ministers who are here today to answer were not there either and that they are responsible for following up on the recommendations. We can therefore perfectly, at Parliament level, with other parliamentarians, ensure a coherent and correct follow-up. I do not ask for a committee every week, but if we could admit that we are seeing each other regularly - a few times a year would be enough - in a monitoring committee format, it would actually show outside - especially to the victims, but also to all the other speakers - that we continue to work seriously, but also to have this cross-cutting vision, which is essential for serious follow-up of what is being done with the recommendations of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u14	I will not go back to the horrific attacks because my colleagues have done so. These attacks have bruised and affected all of us. We often feel helpless in the face of these attacks and especially in the case of those who will bear the consequences of these events throughout their lives, especially in the case of victims who have lost a loved one or who have suffered both physical and mental injuries. We cannot feel this impotence as a Member of Parliament or as a minister; indeed, we have an obligation of means, an obligation to do everything possible to avoid further attacks and victims. We know very well that zero risk does not exist. Unfortunately, it will never exist. As I said, however, we have an obligation of means, thanks to the road map set out by the Attentats Committee after a rigorous and tedious work. We will never emphasize it enough! I would also like to thank Mr Dallemagne for having put the question of the follow-up to the recommendations of the Attentats Committee on the agenda, because that is fundamental. Not because we are five years later, but it must be noted that the work done by the previous and current governments today is not at the level of the enormous work done by the Attentats Commission and what the victims were entitled to expect from the government to make life easier for them. I would also like to commend the objectivity of the majority colleagues who recognize that the work that has been done is at worst insufficient, at best perfectable. I did the rather tedious exercise of going through the long document of the recommendations of the Attentats Commission. I must admit that I have taunted you when I read that there would be recognition and compensation for the victims today, because what they are telling us today - those we have had the opportunity to meet or those who have had the opportunity to express themselves in the media - is that they feel abandoned. Their efforts remain so heavy with so many private and public interlocutors that, in the end, it is the double penalty. It's just unacceptable. This is unacceptable, and the associations are repeating it to us today. Even the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights and fundamental freedoms, Ms Fionnuala Ní Aoláin, stressed this in her report of 1 March 2019. Therefore, in order to make life easier for everyone, I will refer to my questions as filed (55015751C, 55015752C, 55015754C, 55015755C, 55015760C), which allows me to focus on a few more specific issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u15	I would like to supplement my questions with a single window question. I have to go back to that, minister, since you mentioned this one-stop shop in the federal prosecutor's office on Friday. You stated on that occasion that this window was now operational and staffed with specialized personnel and that it could be activated in the event of a terrorist attack or disaster. The problem, Mr Minister, is that this window does not meet the expectations of the victims, nor the recommendations of the Attentats Committee, since it does not enable victims to be assisted in the multiple administrative procedures - whether they are procedures or expertise - which these victims have initiated with multiple interlocutors such as private insurance, occupational accident insurance, own insurance, the victim aid committee - although it is known that the deadline for submitting applications has expired after three years - the SPF Social Security, DG People with Disabilities. In addition, it is my responsibility that the Single Expert Working Group would never have met. In any event, this is not reflected in the documents we have received. So, Mr Minister, are steps now being taken to ensure that the one-stop shop created - which is now just an information window - becomes a one-stop-shop that really accompanies victims in all their administrative steps? What about the work of this well-known 'Single Expert' working group? Moreover, with regard to another request made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, namely the creation of a website to inform victims of their rights as best as possible, the Chancellery of the Prime Minister has created a portal, of course. Unfortunately, the websites to which this portal refers are not updated at all, at least not on a regular basis. How does the government intend to address this? As far as the victims are concerned, and like my colleagues, I heard yesterday the Prime Minister at the memorial ceremonies of the attacks, saying: "We must do better. We can't leave anyone on the side." I agree, but the question is how does the government actually intend to do better in supporting past and future victims? Regarding radicalism in prison, a big part that I wanted to discuss with you because the experts recommended to the Attentats Committee that we no longer talk about "deradicalization", but rather about "disengagement". However, we are continuing with the Deradex sections as they are increasingly criticized both in terms of respect for human rights and in terms of their effectiveness in combating this radicalism. Now we see that some wings are partially empty. It turns out that we had a very interesting exchange with the actors on the ground in the Justice Committee in June 2020. It had emerged from this that the evaluation report of these sections was being finalized, which Mr Geens already told us in 2017! My question is what is the status of this report today? Should its conclusions not be taken into account in order to be able, in the long term and if necessary, to review our policy of combating radicalism in prison and to make it more effective, but also to ensure the reintegration of prisoners upon their release from prison and hence of these sections, which, according to their lawyers, seems to be compromised, if not impossible, given their conditions of detention? In fact, Minister, in your general policy note, you said that you were working on this goal of reintegration in collaboration with the federated entities. Therefore, how do you carry out this work in a concerted manner with the federated entities, all the more so, as we know, the disengagement programmes are carried out on a voluntary basis. Again on the disengagement programmes, it had emerged from the hearings last June that communication was not systematic between the prison directors, on the one hand, the TAP and the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the other hand. Is this still a problem? I think there is an urgent need for answers. Minister, I am impatient to hear your answers that are necessary to have a constructive debate. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: I give the floor to the Ministers to answer the many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their many questions. I will see to it that my colleague in the Interior is given time to answer because I have many answers. I thought the deal was to finish by 5:30. First of all, Presidents, I would like to stress that it is not up to me as Minister to tell you how to proceed. I have too much respect for Parliament for that, and I have been a Member of this House for too long. For me that is at least a start of the debate, it cannot be an end in any case. I am fully at Parliament's disposal to conduct further discussions. As they say in French, "From the shock of ideas, the light springs out." I think we've seen some today. That said, we need even more light. I think there should be room for hearings. I have already said this on Friday. There are a lot of issues where specialists can explain more in the field. I am thinking, for example, of the central counter at the federal courthouse. I know that the magistrates are at the disposal of Mr Lamiroy and Mrs Pellens. JDC exists in Brussels. In other resorts there is another mechanism. I'll come back to that later. I also know that the President of the College of Attorneys General, Mr Delmulle, is also available. That is certainly a point. Secondly, it seems interesting to me to be able to listen to other colleagues: Mr Dermange, for example, in the field of insurance and Mr Vandenbroucke in the field of medical disability. After all, it is not the case that the Ministers for the Interior and Justice can respond to all the recommendations. I'm sure you know that. I will try to give chronologically a number of answers to what you have asked for. Mr Metsu, you started by saying that you had heard very much about the past on Friday but little about the future. I think you have listened selectively, because the government's plans are to build on the recommendations. Witnessing this is the fact that we are giving a lot of extra resources to Justice and Security. I know, Mr Geens, that quantity is not always equivalent to quality, but you yourself indicated in your excellent work at the end of the legislature that there was a need for a refinancing of justice. We're doing that now. That is necessary. Secondly, we do not speak only as a government. We have not been in office for six months and you have already seen that we are taking action with our security services in the fight against terrorism. We have the case of Sky ECC which, of course, is outside the scope of terrorism but which is very clearly focused on organised crime. We also have the actions taken by our security services with regard to minors in Eupen. In the meantime, it has also been found that four more minors have been arrested and imprisoned separately for the intent they had to commit violent acts. In other words, this government and our justice and police are effectively active. We also have many plans for the future. I invite you to read my policy statement on this matter. I refer to the plans we have to provide for LIVCs in prisons. I refer to our plans to strengthen state security in terms of resources, people and powers. That is a draft law that will soon be submitted. I refer to the strategic note on terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. I'm referring to the victim coaches. This government is full of plans not only to further implement the recommendations, but also to find a good, appropriate response to the new challenges. Is the penalty for terrorist crimes being increased? You know we're preparing a new penal code. It's being submitted to experts. So all this is being looked at. In the debate on posting, I know that Mr Pivin has tabled a proposal, as has Mr Geens and Mrs De Wit. These proposals are being looked at, knowing that we have to take full account of our rule of law and the guarantees contained therein. Mr Metsu also asked about the government's attitude towards the return of Syrian mothers. I would like to quote from what Mr Vercauteren of the OCAD in De Standaard said last Saturday. The OCAD is a security service that you also appreciate and appreciate and whose value you can estimate. I quote: 'The situation in the camps has deteriorated, especially in Al-Hol where IS women hold the situation. It is not excluded that the Kurds will open the gates there. Some of these women will probably go to Turkey and come to our country from there. Another part will reconnect with IS. OCAD doesn't like to see that happen. Our advice is: bring them back, the children up to 12 years old and the mothers. Our analysis shows that a controlled return offers the best guarantees for national security. The fear that the returners and convicted terrorists released from prisons would be ticking time bombs is not confirmed by the facts for the time being. You'd be surprised how many real extremists we've already seen change. That's encouraging. Of the women released, 90% of our country has a positive evolution." That is what Mr Vercauteren said about the OCAD. The operation in Syria is now being prepared. You know it's a delicate operation. We're gonna send in research teams to make an assessment of the risk to women. That is exactly what you said at the time in De Morgen, Mr Metsu. In those camps the situation was apparently inhumane, and you saw it with your own eyes. But you had to withdraw your words because your party was not amused with your statements. Mr Metsu also asked about the removal of nationality. I think I answered that very extensively in the oral question that you put in committee. Dismissal of nationality is not included in the coalition agreement or in a policy statement. Nor is it the government's intention to intervene further in this area. The existing legal arsenal seems to be sufficient at this stage. There was no majority in favour of your proposal at the time, and that majority will not be there now either. In fact, Parliament has done its work thoroughly. Several opinions have been sought and bodies have been heard, also in response to your bill. These opinions were largely negative, not only for legal and technical reasons, but also for reasons which could violate the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Mr Metsu also said that the victim coaches were given a handout. I regret that you use that word. It is a blow to the face of V-Europe, a recognised victim association that has explicitly asked for those coaches. Also, the number of coaches that some people are doing lately is what V-Europe has asked for. They asked, we gave. This cooperation with the single point of contact will provide us with many victims, not just those of the attacks of 22 March. Soon I will come back to the question of the guarantee fund. As far as the one-stop shop is concerned, you say it's not working yet. Mr Metsu, the window will work when an attack or calamity occurs. In the meantime, everything has been put in order, in different steps. The Protocol was concluded in 2019 between the Federal level and the Communities to regulate the principles, objectives and functioning of the Window. The practical arrangements are set out in a roadmap that was completed last year. There is also a directive of the College of LAGs which explains the operation of the single point of contact. That's also spread within the DA's office. After all, the Federal Office has also recruited additional staff to ensure that the point of contact can be operational. Mr Metsu, you referred to the terra process and Article 150, which is a discussion we have had. The file was prepared by the Justice Department. I would, by the way, like to congratulate the people of the federal court for the thorough work they have done to get this dossier ready. Ten suspects were referred through the council room. Now it's up to the room of charge. It is logical that this case should start in September 2022, because we are waiting for the Paris trial on the facts that have been committed in the Bataclan. You know that. That's not news. There is, of course, a strong connection and involvement of perpetrators between the two dossiers. It would be unwise to conduct both processes at the same time. This would certainly not benefit the victims. The Justitiasite has been prepared. There's a lot of money invested in that. There's also extra room for the victims. There is also a lot of attention for the victims. They must be able to monitor the process in optimum conditions. We are also aiming for videoconferencing, so that victims can also be tracked from a distance. I have also noted Mr Geens's question and others to see if we can facilitate the assistance process. We are preparing a number of proposals along these lines. In other words, this is submitted to the government and will then come to Parliament. Mr Van Hecke, you asked a number of questions about the recognition of physical injuries and about the double role in which experts are sometimes forced to do so. You also referred to the problem of post-traumatic stress syndrome and its limited expertise. Those are very pertinent questions. The Committee of Inquiry has made valuable contributions here. In recent years, the Department of Public Health has learned a lot about PTSD. A kind of unique expertise has already been introduced in practice at two levels. The first is at the level of insurance. One insurer takes charge of the medical expertise. At the level of the government, it is also foreseen that a single expertise will take place by Medex. As you said, it should not be possible for objective assessments to decide on a different percentage of invalidity. That is why it would be good to give Mr Vandenbroucke the opportunity, for example, to take part in a hearing on this subject and, if necessary, to propose adjustments. Mr Van Hecke, I come to the question of the guarantee fund. Most of my colleagues have talked about this in detail, so I would like to clarify a number of things. First of all, when I spoke in committee last Friday about the fund, I made it very clear about the implications for the current victims. Indeed, I referred to the work in 2018 on the 2019 legislation in which the legislator explicitly chose to work with subrogation, increased advances and faster payment for the current victims. That choice was made then. Mr Metsu, you say that this fund should have been there, but you then voted against the amendment tabled by Mrs Onkelinx. That is what I wanted to clarify in committee. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. At the same time, I have also heard the words of the chairman of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, Patrick Dewael. He said quite clearly that it was always the committee's ambition to look to the future: she did not want to talk about the victims of what happened, but about possible future victims. The 2011 Law following Ghislenghien has been amended recently, but no choice has been made for a guarantee fund at that time. Let's come clean on that. The 2007 law on terrorism has significant gaps and needs to be amended. I think it would be useful to hear Minister Dermagne in these unified committees. I am, of course, open to discussions about the future. That's the least you expect of me, but, for the record, it's about future victims, not about past victims. What is being asked by the opposition today is what Mr Van Hecke and others are talking about today's victims. They want a guarantee fund for the current victims. I can't. That choice was made at the time and we cannot reverse it. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. As far as the future is concerned, however, we must conduct the debate openly, because, as Mr Geens asked, should we confine ourselves to the victims of terror? What are we going to do about victims of train accidents, what if there is an accident such as that experienced by the Netherlands with a passenger plane in Ukraine, what about a possible future gas explosion? Are we going to restrict such a fund to victims of terrorism or are we also talking about other victims? How will we finance that fund? In France this is done with a tax on insurance. You know that we already have such a tax and that we use it for other purposes. With us, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors is financed by a fee paid in response to the conviction. Let us not be blind to the shortcomings that exist in France. I would advise you to make time at the hearing for the chairman of that committee, Mr Van Oudenhove, whom you undoubtedly know, who has interesting insights about this. I am open to the discussion, but I know that this is not an answer to what the victims are asking for today and to their sighs. So far, my answer to Mr Van Hecke's questions. Mrs Zanchetta, you asked the question about JICs/JDC, among other things. It is true that this recommendation has been taken up and developed under the coordination of the National Security Council, the CNS. The JICs/JDC exist today for Brussels. As I said, the participating services are very satisfied. At the same time, the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee, the CSRC, decided in April 2019 that another structure would be put in place in the other four jurisdictions. This is the Forum for Urban Safety and the Counterterrorism Forum in Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. It is a precursor, an embryo of JIC/JDC, i.e. mainly a joint information centre and less a joint decision centre. We will assess this in more detail in the CSRC and the National Security Council. This can also be discussed at the hearings. Mr Moyaers, you have also explicitly asked that question; I hope that the translation into Dutch was sufficiently clear. Mrs. Zanchetta, you asked about the victims and the amount released. You will have found that substantial resources have been made available, particularly for a coaching and victim support association. It should also be noted that my colleague Dermagne and I are looking for solutions, in particular on financial support, by adapting the 2007 law. That's my colleague's plan. Mr Depoostere, you think that I am trying to divert attention from the real danger of Islam fundamentalism. I'm not doing that at all, on the contrary. I name things as they are. Yesterday and today, for example, I said that the four minors who have been arrested separately in recent months committed jihad terror. I name things as they are. But I won't work with two sizes and two weights. You do not want to talk about the problem of right-wing extremism. That is a problem that is getting bigger and bigger, not as big as the jihad problem, I admit, but right-wing extremism is a problem that is emerging in our country. You know that all too well, but of course you're trying to hide it. You're not gonna tell me that because it's not a good time. I also saw that reportage on VTM that your party didn't even dare to intervene. This government will tackle any form of extremism, whether jihadextremism, left-wing extremism or right-wing extremism. We will also mention it, and we will do something about it. If you blame the government for keeping certain things from us, stop with your two sizes and two weights. Explain as Flemish interest that you are fighting against any form of extremism, including right-wing extremism, which you know very well that many of those people are also in your circles. You also refer to the written reply I gave to Mr Creyelman's question. Of course, I would like to clarify this. There are, indeed, a further 600 files open. However, that does not mean that nothing was done in those files, quite the contrary. Some of these files are still open at the request of and in the interests of the victim. For example, files are open because a reservation was made for lawyers' fees which will still be incurred in the context of the attack process. In other cases there are still discussions with the insurance company or the damage has not yet been finally established because the damage is continuing to evolve. I can assure you that no file is open without reason. In addition, 200 files were submitted at the end of the deadline last year. They are now being examined and treated. Mr Depoostere, the previous government has decided to apply a three-year period for the submission of a dossier to the Financial Aid Commission. Here too, we have to be honest, that deadline had already expired in March 2020, if I am not mistaken. I became Minister of Justice on 1 October 2020. Extending a deadline that has already expired is not feasible. I'm sure you know that as chairman of the Home Affairs Commission. I must also add that the previous government also made very specific reservations on the costs of lawyers, so that the costs of the trial can still be charged. Moreover, this is a unique system created for the victims of terrorist attacks. I turn to Mr Pivin's questions. I very much appreciate, dear colleague, your interest in radicalisation, because we are really at the heart of the problem. You have listed many challenges, many measures that have been taken by the previous government. In this area too, we have learned a great deal in recent years. We've installed DeRadex wings. Today, we see that, in Hasselt prison in particular, there are still three people there; and in Ittre, there are still six people. The prison system has begun to cooperate structurally and operationally with our security services and OCAM. We will continue on that same path. There are satellite prisons, for example, in Antwerp, Bruges, Saint-Gilles, where we provide specific supervision for radicalized prisoners. It's important. At the same time, we're going to do more. We're going to appoint intelligence coordinators in every prison. This budget will come from the additional EUR 125 million planned for this year. We go even further by setting up a local integral security cell (CSIL) prison. In addition to early detection, the most important objective of this unit is to provide for a tailor-made accompanying programme. In this CSIL prison, federal and community services can freely develop and agree, within a confidential framework, on a program that focuses on the inmate's needs, vulnerabilities and strengths. Mr Geens, what you said about prevention is probably of the greatest value. I have to make sure I appreciate things. I said it on Friday and I repeat it: 'Ouvrir une école, c'est fermér une prison', a statement by Victor Hugo. I can fully support you in that. The fight against radicalisation is not only a responsibility of the judiciary and the police, it requires the commitment of all civil society actors and civil society. That is also at the heart of the policy that has been put in place in recent years. It is not just about cooperation with the security services, but also about cooperation with the socio-preventive services and civil society. That is a holistic approach to problematic radicalisation. The creation of the LIVCs is the best proof of that. Mr Pivin, you have asked the question of the number of CSILs. There's 400 of them. It is true that there is a shortage in Wallonia. That's the reality. I always urge the mayors, in particular, to do what is necessary. Mr Geens, it is better to avoid it than to heal it. It strikes me that there are also many people in the security world, such as yourself, as a former Minister of Justice, and the federal prosecutor, who are deeply aware of the need for prevention. For example, the words spoken by federal prosecutor Van Leeuw in the Seventh Day of last Sunday were very striking in that sense. You also spoke about religion, Mr Geens, and Belgian and European Islam. You also literally said that the work that has been done must not be thrown away. I would like to say the following: together with you, I call for Islam to be embedded in our society, based on the common basis of values and standards on which our society is based. It is not my intention to throw the work of the previous governments overboard for a long time, but we must have the courage to evaluate and adjust where necessary. As you know, at the end of 2020, I received a report from the security services showing interference in the Great Mosque. Mr Dallemagne, I did not use the word "espionage", but it was used by the State Security. Of course, I couldn't let that happen. That is why I gave a negative opinion and as a result an important figure has taken the necessary steps. What matters to me is that there is an Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. That is a structure which we will, of course, retain. We will not throw it away, but that structure must evolve. They have, moreover, come to that conclusion themselves. Especially in the area of representativeness: the various concepts within Islam must be represented and there must be a balance between male-female and Dutch-French speaking. I would like to stress the latter, Mr Geens, that Dutch must increasingly be one of the identities of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, but also in terms of transparency and professionalism. I would like to proceed immediately to imam training, Mrs Gabriels, and Mr Moyaers asked that question. As you know, I want to carry out the POC's recommendation with all due respect, even when it comes to setting up a Belgian imam training programme. Mr Dallemagne, it is important to have it, but what has been noted is that unfortunately, in 2019, the previous government concluded an agreement with ASBL AFOR, the Academy of Training and Research in Islamic Studies. A non-profit association for imam training, consisting of a civil part and a theological part. For the civil subjects, AFOR had to conclude an agreement with the KUL and the UCL. The previous government has made a budget available, but we have seen very few students enrolled. Of the five students on the Dutch-speaking side and no students on the French-speaking side, it is not even clear whether they will eventually take the course off. Moreover, the theological part is missing at the moment. That is also the opinion of the KUL, which has been quite critical of this. I can only conclude that there is little progress in imam education. So we will soon sit down with the decorating powers to see if there is any point in a continuation. I will look with the Communities to see if we can develop other initiatives. Of course, it is our intention to work on a Belgian imam programme. Mr Geens, you have also spoken about data retention, and you have given some striking examples. I fully share your concern. By the way, we've been working hard with the various cabinets over the last few months. After all, this is not something that is in my own hands alone, it is also in the cabinet of Minister De Sutter, the cabinet of Minister Verlinden and the Ministry of Defence. It's all departments that are affected by it. We are working on an alternative regime, responding to the observations of the European Court of Justice. At the same time, we want our security services to be able to continue their work. Look at Sky ECC where the importance of data has been crucial for a breakthrough. It's not gonna be an easy exercise, we're gonna have to be creative, but we're working on it. The judgment of the Constitutional Court is expected to be one of the weeks, as you know. I am a liberal and a democrat: privacy is worth a lot to me. I express myself with caution, but the sometimes somewhat dogmatic approach causes quite some unwanted problems for our security services and judicial authorities. So the tension field is big. Just as Justice needs to be able to work with data more than ever, with big data, it threatens to be stripped of the remedies to do so. If we allow that to happen, we are doing a service to the criminals and not so much to our privacy. That is why we continue to work at European level at the same time. Our legislation has already been adapted for the second time for reasonable solutions and this together with France. I had an explicit discussion with Mr Dupond-Moretti on this subject. We are playing a tractor role to adapt the legislation to that. Then there was also the question of financial resources, lack of resources and quantity versus quality. It is effective not just a matter of more people and resources. We can strengthen all services, but if they work side by side, then they are not very meaningful investments. It is therefore mainly a question of the most effective use of existing staff. One has to be smarter than the opponent, which can only be done if information is shared as much as possible and if there is cooperation. That is the cultural change I have often talked about. I see, for example, in the Sky ECC file that several services have worked well together, including with international institutions, to achieve breakthroughs. Despite the fact that there are sometimes shortages in a service, people are able to rise above themselves. That shows how much talent we have in the police, in the justice system and in our security services. We're going to strengthen those services, but we're not going to do it blindly. So it's not going to be a blind investment, it's going to be a smart one, for example, to allow specialised profiles. Mr Geens also referred to the terrorist process and the approximation of legislation. I'm not deaf to that. I hope to be able to come to Parliament shortly with concrete changes in this area. Colleagues Gabrïels and Dallemagne, you also talked about radicalization and deradicalization. Mrs Gabriels and Mr Dallemagne, radicalisation is a flag that covers many loads and problems. The unique deradicalisation program never existed, because each individual is different. For some, ideology plays an important role. We must then approach them ideologically. Think, for example, of the use of Islam consultants for jihadis. For ideological hardliners, we have to think of disengagement, the renouncement of violent behavior. For other so-called unstable persons, psychiatric counselling should be sought. We must therefore constantly look for a tailor-made approach. I quote from the article of the OCAD in De Standaard last Saturday: 'You would be surprised how many real extremists we have already seen changing'. So don't let us be defeatist. If we make the right effort, we can get these people on the right track. In prisons too, we set up a lot of specific programmes with the Communities, but it is not always a guarantee of success. That's conscience. I also wanted to clarify a misunderstanding. It is not because someone convicted of terrorism is released from prison, he or she automatically disappears from the OCAD list. I hear some local politicians make that remark. That's wrong. Anyone on the OCAD list will be monitored permanently. When the OCAD lowers the threat of a person, that person is removed from that list. That's not a political decision, that's a decision of the OCAD. Mrs Gabriels asked about the evolution of terrorism. I have just said this to Mr Depoostere. I hope he heard that right. There is indeed a problem of right-wing extremism. We have recently seen an increase in the number of right-wing extremists. We've had incidents in prison with right-wing extremists. We've known threats. There have been incidents, too. There are also judicial investigations into arsons that point to the influence of right-wing extremists. Mrs Gabriels, that right-wing extremism is becoming a phenomenon that goes beyond jihad-extremism alone. I would like to thank Mr Dewael for his presentation, for the work that has been done and for clarifying the guarantee fund. I think this can clarify the work of the committees. Mr Moyaers has asked questions about the crossroads database that are for Mrs Verlinden. Mr Moyaers, I have answered your questions about the JDC, radicalisation and imam training. Mr Dallemagne, thank you also for your words of thanks. I think you're still witnessing a constructive opposition that I appreciate. With regard to the problem of youth assistance that you have raised, namely the young people who, as a result of the health crisis, settle behind their computers and are radicalised, I must quote once again an article in De Standaard. In this respect, De Standaard has brought a very interesting series about extremism. I quote Mr Vercauteren, the director ad interim: 'The fact that radicalised people are getting younger is a tendency to keep an eye on them. Our files often show up in very young people these days. They're 16, 17 or just 18. There was the case in Eupen, but we also had cases where minors on Telegram exchanged messages with IS sympathizers to do'something'." Mr. Dallemagne, you mentioned AJ+, but here I'm talking about Telegram. They exchange messages with IS sympathizers on Telegram to do something. They are young people who have little knowledge of the conflict in Syria and whose parents have not started fighting either. Yet they have been radicalised via online channels. Mr Dallemagne, I do not know whether you followed the press, but alongside these two young minors from Eupen, the security services also intervened for four other minors. During the months of January and February, they clearly intended to engage in violent acts. As you can see, our security services are very considerate. It is not just the real world that needs to be patrolled, but also the Internet, and that is where we must nip radicalisation in the bud. Mr Dallemagne, you also referred to this interesting report published at the end of 2016, which was updated in 2017. Of course, your suggestion for a new update is interesting. I think that as far as imams are concerned, I have answered the question. In particular, you asked questions about imams and visas. You know that this is not a matter for me but for the Secretary of State, Mr Mahdi. I know that until 2019 during the Ramadan some 80 imams came from abroad every year, mostly from Morocco. These imams were mainly used during Ramadan in the small mosques that have no fixed imam. Last year, for the sake of corona, there were no imams. Probably will be this year. The mosques can receive up to 15 believers at the same time as for the other places of prayer. As a result, many mosques are closed. Mr Dallemagne also asked questions about the situation of the Executive, but I think I have answered them. I shall therefore turn to Mrs Rohonyi's questions. Mrs Rohonyi, in particular, you asked about the Single Expertise Working Group. During the previous legislature, several working groups were set up to arrive at this unique expertise. I think I've answered Mr. Van Hecke on insurance, under which only one insurer takes over the medical expertise. Secondly, at the level of the public authorities, it is also planned to have only one expertise; there is no dual expertise at the state level. With regard to your written question on the three-year deadline, I think I have answered Mr Depoortere's question, who asked a similar question on this subject. With regard to the one-stop shop that would not meet the expectations of the victims, I can tell you that its tasks have been defined by a working group – set up following the inter-federal working group – composed of representatives of the Justice FPS and the three Communities. This resulted in the signing in May 2019 of the protocols regulating the work of the Central Window, which is intended to be activated after a terrorist attack or a major disaster. The aim of the Central Window is to provide a central point of contact for victims. It will be accessible through centralized physical channels: by telephone, but also via a website. It is planned that the central window will contact reference persons within the Communities so that a case manager can be appointed, who will contact the victims within 48 hours and assist them in the steps to be taken, both at federal and regional level. It will monitor and coordinate, while at the same time being able to detect the problems experienced in accompaniment to victims. They can consult the website "Guide for Belgian victims of a terrorist attack abroad", which will be updated for all victims. Mrs Rohonyi, I would like to contradict you when you say that this window does not help them in their administrative work. However, we are trying to address this in a proactive way, as I said. Mr President, Madam President, I apologise for the length of my explanation. I have tried to answer most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your remarks. Every question in itself deserves a broader debate. I am therefore looking at Parliament to further organise its work in this respect. I have listened with great attention to all the questions and considerations. In any case, the documentation provided to you is very comprehensive and already contains some answers to the questions. I would like to add a few more additions. Where appropriate, I will ask that the question be put as a written question so that I can provide a more detailed answer, or as an oral question, so that we can return to the Committee on the Interior and so that I can give more, technical or otherwise, details. Together with my colleague from Justice, we are working hard to implement the recommendations of the Counter Extreme Project (CEP). As you can see, a great deal of work has already been done by all the services. In particular, this government is freeing up important means for our security services to work in the most effective and focused way possible. No less than €310 million will be released for the federal police during this parliamentary term. But we are not only investing in the police, we are also continuing to invest in means, capacity, technology, additional infrastructure for the National Crisis Centre and the OCAM. Some of you refer to the realisation of a cultural change. That is not something that can be done from today to tomorrow. That's a work of many years. It is my conviction that we must continue to work on this and that we must continue to consolidate the tasks that have already been carried out by consolidating existing structures and communication networks. In any case, it is important to continue working on the relationship and trust between the different services and policy levels. You are, of course, free to increase the involvement of all partners, but it would be my recommendation to hold a regular debate in Parliament to prepare, discuss and see where we stand over the coming months and years. As has already been said, I shall now turn to a number of questions that Mr Van Quickenborne has not yet addressed, in the hope that we will be able to provide some more explanations and information in this way. I will try to follow the order of the speakers so that we can get some structure in the questions. A first question from Mr Metsu was about progress, the fear of slackening down on the recommendations that have already been made and on the approach of this and the previous government. I have heard almost unisono in this committee today that it is everyone's will to consolidate, steer and possibly evaluate the good initiatives, some of which have already been implemented during the previous legislature. There is still a lot of work on the shelf and we cannot rest on our laurels. We certainly don't. This is something that continues to evolve. This is a problem that will never be resolved and that is evolving. The context and situation in dense or distant countries continue to change. This will be a work on which we will see each other very often. Mr D'Haese, you had a question about the reorganisation of DJSOC and its status. In the meantime, the operation has been evaluated and reorganised with eight principles of the POC as a guide. In order to avoid duplication and to avoid the exchange of information with the Terro services of the five largest FGPs in particular, a SLA was concluded between DJSOC and each FGP. This has already solved many problems raised by the POC regarding, for example, working side by side and not sharing certain information. DJSOC Terro does not perform strictly operational tasks, as you may know, but coordinates and supports the FGPs, whether at their request or not. This will also help to safeguard the integrated operation with other partners, such as State Security, Military Security, the Crisis Centre and the OCAD. The flow and distribution of information with bodies such as the national and local task forces, the cooperation with the public prosecutors in the JDC concept was developed in cooperation and in the spirit of the ideas all these partners had on this subject. You may also have heard in the meantime about the plan of the new Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police with regard to the clear and structured policy, as he described DGJ 3.0. In doing so, it is very important that this FGP can evolve with the spirit of time and all the needs associated with it. In this light and from that angle, the General Executive Board of the FGP will invest in five key areas in the coming years in order to evolve into a dynamic, modern and specialised judicial police. Two elements are particularly important to me. Firstly, the investment in techniques and technologies: everything that has to do with IT and data analysis, certain licenses that need to be acquired. It is also important to recruit specialised and specific (senior) profiles, possibly with a lateral influx. In the domain of terrorism, a number of specific profiles have been provided within the FGPs, such as Islamologists and analysts. In a more general way, we believe that the judicial police should have a large number of specialised functions. As I have said on several occasions, we have opened up the vacancies for 450 new roles within the FGP. As far as I'm concerned, they primarily go to those specialised profiles, such as IT experts. Those recruitments are ongoing. We are also trying to conduct an intensive campaign there. Our hope and expectation is that the Sky ECC file has contributed to the employee branding campaign because the police there have shown the best of themselves and thus can warm people up for a job and an exciting career with the police. The recruitment's running. We have weekly consultations with the Commissioner-General to monitor the evolution of the influx. We follow them very well. Mr D'Haese, you had a question about recruitment and selection in particular. If I have listened carefully, Mr Geens has also referred to the resources and people. I fully share your view, Mr Geens, that we should try to go as far as possible with the people and resources we have and try to do our job as well as possible. Of course, it is not new that we are also investing in strengthening, increasing influx. It is very important that we work on the diversity of police forces so that the police can reflect the society they serve. It is no secret that we need to make certain pay scales as good as possible to enable the attractiveness of this role, including with regard to the private sector, where there is a great rush on talent for IT experts, within the police. It is my belief that we should think of consultancy or, for example, interim contracts to further facilitate the recruitment of specialist profiles. In addition, we can also think out of the box in terms of reinforcement. One can think of job students and interim contracts to make the police team bigger. To facilitate all this, the software packages have been renewed and improved to support the entire staff policy. With regard to the recruitment procedure itself, we are working on a new concept. The texts are currently being prepared for both internal and external police entry. The launch of this new concept could, as far as we are concerned, happen in Q2 this year, so soon. This, too, should contribute to the reinforcement. A new staff plan has been drawn up to enable the functions to be properly allocated to the local and federal police and to all specific services within the federal police. You may have heard that in the meantime we are also talking to the trade unions about the sectoral agreement. The main lines of this will, of course, also be relevant for recruitment in the future. That conversation is ongoing and we have set out a timetable for that. We hope to be able to make progress in the coming months. Mr D'Haese, you also had a question about international police cooperation. I think I said something about this last week, and I will be brief. In any case, liaison officers continue to play a crucial role in international cooperation. In the meantime, they all have access to the General National Database via the Be Secure application. An evaluation has been made of the network of liaison officers and a post has been opened in London. The Federal Police and State Security have signed a protocol to organise the information flow for dealing with classified information by the bilateral liaison officers. Imaging is also being made and updated for the Belgian international police policy, with the network being re-evaluated. It will be examined whether additional placement of liaison officers is needed in certain countries or regions, and whether this can contribute to international police cooperation and therefore security in Belgium. You also know that an analysis was made for cooperation between Belgium and Turkey. That is also very important for our country. On this basis, it was decided to leave the liaison officer in Turkey in Istanbul. A bilateral action plan for the period 2019-2020 has therefore been concluded. Its implementation has been somewhat delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but it certainly remains on the agenda, given the importance I have just mentioned. In another question you mentioned the administrative police and administrative enforcement. We have already announced that we want to work on the legislation on administrative enforcement, in order to provide local authorities and mayors with an efficient tool to deal with organised crime. As you know, work has already been done on this and there have been some concerns and questions from the Council of State. Also with the Sky ECC file, it has become very clear that we need to tackle illegal money laundering. An operating licence based on a legislative initiative can then play a role in administrative enforcement. If I'm correct, you also had a question about the integrity of the police. There are a number of aspects related to this. I think it's very important. We often talk about respect from and for the police, where integrity plays a crucial role. In legislative terms, we are thinking of various activities, first of all a reform of the disciplinary law. We are also making effective work of this and that is independent of the debates on the sectoral agreement, but it is necessary to be a good employer tool with the protection of all workers' rights, and to be able to deal with any malpractice within the police. We are also working on a new legislation on reporting integrity violations, in which trusted persons can be replaced and play a crucial role. A procedure is currently being worked out. It would also be good to create a legal basis for staff screening throughout the career with the police. This is already happening today at the beginning, but things can also change during a career. That is one of the areas we are considering. One of the key elements in achieving police integrity is ethical leadership. Example behavior and assertive discussion of a number of problems in a corps should be both negative and positive. Police leaders must also be sufficiently formed and assisted to demonstrate that ethical leadership. In this context, account is taken of past perceptions and experiences of the illegal consultation of databases, a specific identification, addressed. It is true that this is something that needs to be kept to a minimum, because it is in this way that information can also go in the wrong direction. Of course, the police force is only as solid as any holes. So we are putting our shoulders under that heading. Mr Van Hecke, you asked questions about the reception of psychiatricly traumatized police personnel. That expertise is currently on the stress team. The psychologists on that team took extra training to assist those police personnel. Some police areas call on an external stress team or work with their own stress team. In the Federal Police, the stress team is involved at different times in psychotherapeutic support, depending on when it is informed of the situation or is given an application. Both local and federal police have a device at their disposal. The stress team at both local and federal police provides primary prevention through training to staff and managers, because they have to deal with the people in a trauma situation. The more reactive, the handling of such trauma, is also important. One can also occur when such a potentially traumatic incident occurs. A guard service is available to the federal police, which can intervene at any time when they are informed of a difficult situation. These may include debriefing, providing psycho-information, individual or group conversations. It is also left to the circumstances or the assessment of the psychologists concerned which mechanisms they use to assist the staff concerned. Mrs Zanchetta, you have asked a question about the JDCs and JICs, but my colleague Van Quickenborne has already answered it. Questions were raised by Ms. Zanchetta, Mr. Moyaers and Mr. Dallemagne regarding the security data bank. As I mentioned last week, the need for cultural change in order to share information from the principle of needs to know to that of needs to share remains valid. The creation of a Security Bank-Carrefour, in accordance with the vision document that was finalized by the partners involved in 2020, is a challenge that we will not retreat from and that we will continue to work on in the coming months. We are not aiming for a new separate database, but rather for an effective system of secure interconnections between the various existing databases of the security services. With the award of the e-police project, we have already taken a major step forward. Secondly, we need to see how we can go further in the interconnection of different databases, and above all genuine internal and external sources. The concept will evolve from a database situation that exists in parallel to an integrated view of information, either within the police or outside the police. This integrated view must always be adapted to the user's profile and the specific context in which the user is working. In this way, each police officer will find himself at an information hub where the information he receives is targeted and relevant. It will help us a lot. This will require significant investment from ICT and the various security and intelligence services. Bringing together all that data comes at a considerable cost. Moreover, this is also accompanied by long-term planning. After all, that is not something we can achieve from today to tomorrow. Several IT projects with different plans, including the necessary budgets, have been planned in advance for years. We must not jeopardise the Crossroads Bank, but also the existing ICT projects that have been planned for a long time. This is one of the priorities because it is very important to be able to continue to share that information. With regard to Ms Zanchetta and Mr Moyaers' questions about Plan R, I can point out that it will evolve towards a strategic note on extremism and radicalism and will establish uniform structures and working methods in which each partner will have an identical and clear frame of reference. As you may know, the Plan R was not approved by the Länder. There has already been an interfederal IKW on that. The texts of the cooperation agreement are now subject to a final GDPR check. We have the clear aim of presenting the texts for discussion for the first time in the coming weeks to the Länder in order to go further in this way. Mr Depoostere, as far as security is concerned, you spoke about the role of the district agents and the district teams. I agree that the importance of neighbourhood teams and community policing is essential, also to pick up certain signals and keep in touch with what lives on the ground. I have already indicated in my policy statement that the role of district inspector should become more attractive. In many cases that is a kind of special career today, but I think there is a lot of added value in it and we must do everything we can to make the district teams and inspectors attractive to everyone outside and within the police. We also need to think of neighbourhood teams already taking place in a number of cities in which not just one district agent but district teams with appropriate training can go into the field and thus continue to engage in dialogue and debate with young people. Prevention is, after all, extremely important. Minister Van Quickenborne already talked about the schools, but also prevention in the field with the district teams can make a determining difference. Mr Depoostere, you also referred to a letter on the security function at Brussels airport. I didn't get that letter, so it wasn't entirely clear to me, but it might have to do with private security. Perhaps you should share some more information on this so that we can discuss it in detail together on a subsequent occasion. Mr Pivin, Mr Dallemagne, you have questions about the CSILs that are active in Belgium. If I may, it would help me to ask your question in writing, so that I can provide you with more detailed information on these figures. Thus, we will have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail. Mr Pivin, you asked a question about the Passenger Information Unit, which already collects 86% of passenger data in the air sector today. This is a significant number compared to the other PassengerInformation Unit in Europe. Since an airline connection must be set, secure and tested each time, we estimate that we will be approaching 100% by the end of 2021 or early 2022. With regard to the pilot projects with Eurostar and FlixBus that were announced in the past, we have put the focus first on Eurostar. This is not an obvious operation, given the fact that Eurostar is not used to sending passenger data such as the air sector. Technical work is currently under way with Eurostar and will also be resumed with FlixBus later this year. With regard to the improvement of the NRP, proposals are currently being developed to optimize the legal basis. In addition, intelligent analysis of underlying networks is encouraged. There is also a lot of lobbying at EU level to ensure that the PNR data received is of maximum quality and complete. Mr. Geens, you had another question about data retention. Mr Van Quickenborne has already replied. I agree with your comments, Mr Geens. Privacy is indeed an essential fundamental right, but there must be a solid legal basis for security and information services so that they can continue their work. Without data, no security. The balance between the two must certainly be borne in mind. We are currently working, as Mr Van Quickenborne said, on that legal basis. Hopefully more will follow in the coming months. I come to Mrs Gabrëls and Mr Dallemagne's questions on radicalisation and terrorism. We have indeed seen the wave of IS terror in Western Europe between 2014 and 2018. The general threat level in Belgium was then at level 3. The 2015 attacks in Paris and 2016 in Brussels were the last major attacks of trained IS commands. Mr Depoostere, there is no problem in this way in naming and saying that. At the beginning of your speech, I was a little confused about where you wanted to go. The attacks in Western Europe were, of course, of a very different type. Radicalisation is done via the Internet, that is not new. Today, these actions take place on an individual basis. Individuals act on their own. In many ways, the methods used are simpler and they use less spectacular weapons. Because of the way those weapons are used, they can be particularly painful and impactful. The fact that we are now talking about more individual actions means that the focus of the security services needs to be shifted. The threat has dropped a little since the individual actions. That does not mean, however, that there is no threat or danger from that jihadist angle. That propaganda and ideology still exist and retain their influence. We must therefore continue to focus on combating these activities. This has also become clear in the attacks in France and Austria, where it is absolutely crucial that we remain vigilant in relation to such trigger events that can lead others to totally wrong ideas. As Mr Van Quickenborne has said, the advance of extreme right-wing thinking and violence has been noted in recent years. This brings Belgium into line with the international trend. This has already been seen in other countries. Perhaps the economic crisis, but also the migration crisis, has played a role in this. We should certainly continue to follow that up. Mr Dallemagne, in this context, the threat of individuals is greater than that of groups. The importance of social networks should not be underestimated. Moreover, we must ensure that right-wing extremism and jihadism are not mutually reinforcing, as this would only exacerbate the growing polarization of society. Mr D'Amico, the police have also invested in additional security measures in order to be able to react quickly in the event of a terrorist incident. In particular with regard to the airport, additional controls have been put in place, through the deployment of new mobile and dynamic patrols, the control of access roads and car parks using ANPR cameras or other structural measures. I must also mention the dynamic control of access to the airport building security zone, as well as increased awareness and prior briefing of the staff of the security companies of the transport companies – including private ones – operating on the site. The implementation of these controls is supported by the introduction of the role of the Behavioural Detection Officer, which I mentioned last week, and whose task is to identify any unusual or deviant behaviour on the basis of very different characteristics. All members of the Federal Judicial Police, the Aviation Police and the Security Directorate have completed this training. The latter, which was established in November 2017, was also entrusted with the legal task of ensuring the security of Brussels Airport's infrastructure. Since 1 December 2018, 66 staff members of the DAB have been present in BruNat. In the context of integrated border management and in line with the new expectations imposed on us by the European Union, new and many challenges such as the implementation of the European Entry and Exit System await us in the years to come. I turn to Mr Moyaers' questions, who first of all had a question about the saturation of communications networks. In the meantime, ASTRID has further developed the distribution of the radio network, by building about thirty additional cell towers. The capacity of the network itself has also been structurally strengthened. Since May 2018, a real-time monitoring tool for radio network capacity has made it possible to monitor the situation on the network closely and, where appropriate, to intervene and, where necessary, to activate additional capacity. There is also investment in training and training within ASTRID through the use of e-learning, and additional investments were made in Blue Light Mobile, which meets the specific requirements and wishes of the emergency and security services. If the network were to become overloaded at certain times, there would be priority access to the network for the police and security services. The business plan of ASTRID that we have been able to discuss further provides for the development, deployment and operation of the broadband radio network for emergency and security services, based on 5G. ASTRID intends to roll out its own national core network that will also be able to activate the functionalities needed for the critical applications of the future. Mr Moyaers, you also had a question about exercises at the airport. I would like to ask you about the specific figures relating to the number of exercises and the specificity of training courses to ask a written or oral question. Then I can get you those details. In any case, today an exercise is already organized every two years at Zaventem Airport. Next one's coming up soon. It is organised in consultation and in collaboration with the governor of Flemish Brabant, so that all the aid and police services and the security services can be involved and follow this exercise. Mr Moyaers, you also had a question about emergency planning. In the event of a crisis or emergency, the response in the field must be harmonised, as must the policy. The unit of command must be the code word. When something happens, it is not always clear on the ground whether it is a terrorist attack. That's why the first reaction always involves the fireman. As soon as it is clear that it is a matter of terrorism, the police will take over and be involved. That can be decided at the moment on the basis of certain protocols. As far as the police are concerned, it is clear that it must always be someone with a license from Director Operations. The CRAs to which you referred continue to deal with emergency planning, both at local and federal level, with the establishment of a national emergency plan, in the case of a terrorist hostage situation or a terrorist attack. In that case, the 2019 Royal Decree provides that the multidisciplinary function of the Director of Operations shall be exercised by the officer of the relief zone in whose territory the intervention takes place. It will be present at the place of intervention and must, of course, also have a certificate of competence, as I have just said. The Royal Decree of 22 May 2019, to which I just referred, was drawn up after consultation with the local partners. Above all, it had to be very clear to them that the Director of Operations was in the first place in the event of an emergency, because he had a multidisciplinary view of the operation at the time, which is of course highly desirable in the event of an emergency. You also asked about the other KBs. It is important that the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security continues to contribute to the collection of all the experiences available in relation to such situations, so that future situations can be avoided and it can share those experiences. This is also covered in the training courses provided to obtain this certificate of competence. Mr Dallemagne, as regards the development of the means for the security services, I referred to this in the introduction of my intervention today. As you know, €310 million is planned during this parliamentary term for the staff and resources of the federal and local police. We still need to see how we will invest that amount. In any case, these are investments in the broad sense of the term, i.e. technology, personnel and operations. This budget should be used to improve the performance of our security services. This was it for my first speech. There is no doubt that the debate can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u18	Madam President, I am particularly grateful to the Minister for the Interior, who has already spoken about her time available and who also has other kittens to whip, I have just read. I still have, as usual, to correct Minister Van Quickenborne. Mr Minister, when it comes to the repatriation of these mothers, I will continue to talk about this, and it will not be the last time, it is clear to me who will deliver the orders to your cabinet. That doesn't necessarily have to be you. You keep quoting me from an article in De Morgen. Read the whole quote! As a minister, it is very small to interpret that in your way. I have always said to separate those involved in these camps themselves and look at the au cas par cas, as should be done here in prisons with radical profiles. I understand that more than 400 radicalised detainees have already been released. Last Friday you were very proud that the two deradex wings with two times twenty places are still not filled. I will not repeat the story of Noura Firoud: after five months she is free again, even without an anklet. I have another correction to make. When it comes to the guarantee fund, you're talking about me thinking it's a handout. Last Tuesday you will be on the front pages of the newspapers with the President of V-Europe, because you will make EUR 300 000 available to V-Europe. Congratulations. I've thanked you two to three times. That will be two coaches for about 1,500 victims, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia. I don't know if that's enough. Last Thursday, two days later, you say that the government is deleting the guarantee fund. No more of the guarantee fund. Not me, but a victim associated with V-Europe says that they get a handout while the grain barn is being robbed. You shouldn't put those words in my mouth. I repeat what one of the victims said. The declaration of nationality is no longer mentioned, you say. Can I miss the old Van Quickenborne, if I've ever known it, a little bit? As far as the assistance process is concerned, there have been very good suggestions from your experienced colleagues Mr Geens and Mr Dewael. You have already said that you will take this into account for the greatest terrorist process that awaits us. Hopefully you will also take effective account of their views. Madam President, we will not be discussed. This is our second round. The ministers themselves have said that, fortunately, it does not have to end here. We really need to settle the work. We're waiting on that schedule. There is no harm in saying what you do not intend to do, Mr Van Quickenborne. Not everything needs to be ticked off. If there is a progressive understanding, following the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, this can also be communicated to the outside world and to this Parliament. It would be nice to have a schematic overview of what has already happened, what has already been achieved by the previous government, what will not be done and what is going on. In a subsequent phase, we need to organise thematic hearings. I would also like to hear these victims and all the experts who have been quoted by the ministers themselves. This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u19	Madam President, Minister Van Quickenborne asked me a specific question, in particular whether I would like to join him in fighting all extremism. He then tried to point out some kind of right-wing extremism, but it wasn't really clear to me. Minister, you referred to a very ill-made VTM reportage and to the arson in an asylum centre whose perpetrators have not yet been known to me. You may also refer to some of the boys and girls of Schild & Friends, whose biggest crime was to own a van of pepper spray. I would like to, but this cannot be compared to the Islam fundamentalism that attacks in Europe. Minister, no, I am not going along with your reasoning to impose a ban on ideas and opinions through legislation. I do not want a thought police which will be organized by the government, because that is what you intend to do. My party has one great principle, freedom of expression, of course, with the exception of calls for violence. That must be punishable, and that is also the legal provision. You often wave a quote by Victor Hugo. Let me quote from the French philosopher Voltaire: "I abhor what you say, but I will always defend your right to say it."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u20	Madam President, I do not wish to reply in substance, I just want to thank the ministers for the effort they have made to answer this afternoon the multitude of questions that have been put to them. I would also like to point out that the suggestion made by the Minister of the Interior that oral questions or written questions should be put does not seem to me to be appropriate. In fact, if that were the case, we would partition when we need transversality. For specific questions, written questions could be justified. But in this case, the Minister of Justice suggested hearings. It is, in my opinion, in this direction that we must lead ourselves. This would be preferable to the Minister's filing of ministerial questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic422x.u21	Madam President, I, too, would like to thank the Ministers for their sometimes very precise, sometimes vaguer answers, which is unfortunately due to the format of the exercise that we took today. In particular, I asked questions about intelligence services that have not been provided with additional resources. The Minister of the Interior replied with regard to the police. I did not expect very precise answers today. But again the question of working methodology arises. I hear that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior are open to further work. So the ball is in our camp. Madam President, I would like to have some clarifications quickly on the format of our work. I am not just thinking here of a committee of the Justice and Home Affairs Committees. As I have already said, we should go beyond that with a rather precise order of business. I have heard, for example, some openings on the question of the federal prosecutor's hearing for the one-stop shop, on the question of the guarantee fund, on the question of the Carrefour Bank, on the question of joint decisions centres and joint information centres. (JDD/JIC) I would also like to discuss the issue of intelligence services, the question of the formation of imams. It would indeed be interesting to have an order of business and a format for Parliament as well as the government's rapid response on this format. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: I think we can conclude the debate for today, Mr Dallemagne. Thank you very much to both ministers for their detailed answers. To the question from several colleagues to the two ministers I can answer, firstly, that there will be a translation of the documents because some documents are in French, some are in Dutch. That would seem to have been agreed at the Conference of Presidents. Secondly, we are looking for a better readability of the documents. It would therefore be most useful to list all the recommendations. It may then be stated whether or not the recommendation has been implemented, or whether it will no longer be implemented due to changed circumstances or moving insight. Perhaps it could also change to the current document, so that we have a workable document. I propose to the committee that, after the holiday, during the first two weeks, according to the agendas, we organise an arrangement of the work. We will then draw up a proposal to work more thematically. There are already several items that have already been mentioned by colleagues. Around the victims I note the guarantee fund where there is a willingness to look at the possibilities in the future. In connection with the unique window, as suggested by the federal prosecutor, we can invite Mrs. Pellens to our committee. I am also thinking of the assistance process and the possible support of victims. You are already working there, Minister, but perhaps some minor adjustments can be made to that assistance procedure. I'm also thinking about the information development. But first we wait for the document before returning to you to have it ticked off or confirmed. I am looking at both ministers to see if it is possible to produce a document like this? [[Applause from the left]] ) I thank everyone and wish you all a good evening.
