ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u1	Madam President, Minister, for the past two years the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office has seen an increase in cases of prostitution of underage girls. On the Liège side, several cases also point to the increasing use by prostitution networks of teenage girls, of whom the youngest are 14 or 15 years old. The increased use of social and Internet networks in recent years has facilitated the work of prostitutes who exploit the vulnerabilities of potential victims. Unfortunately, still today, the complex phenomenon of child prostitution is largely misunderstood and the number of victims remains a mystery. On 30 September, France held its first inter-ministerial commission to combat the prostitution of underage girls. Composed of judges, police officers, representatives of associations and child protection, the aim of the Commission is to make a series of proposals by 4 March in order to better combat this scourge. In addition, the Centre de Victimologie pour Mineurs Français was tasked with conducting interviews in eleven departments in order to identify the psychological, sociological and epistemological springs at work in child prostitution. Therefore, Minister, what initiatives are being taken, in particular by your department, to combat child prostitution in our country? Are financial resources available for shelters and counselling centres for victims of human trafficking, such as Payoke in Flanders? Your predecessor had committed himself to it. Do you intend to establish, as in France, an inter-ministerial commission to combat the prostitution of underage girls? Finally, can you give us the results of the study carried out by the French Centre for Victimology for Minors or, better still, instruct an organisation to carry out such a study in Belgium in our different provinces, in order to identify the psychological and sociological causes of child prostitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the initiatives that have been taken in terms of policy, I refer to the work of the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit in the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. The preparation of national action plans within the Unit's office is a pivotal moment in integrating the recommendations into a comprehensive reflection among all actors involved in this area. The 2012-2014 and 2015-2019 National Action Plans on Trafficking in Human Beings contain various initiatives to improve the detection, identification and guidance of minor victims. Some of these have been realized. In 2019, COL 1/2015 established close cooperation between youth judges and reference magistrates for trafficking in human beings. To this is added the adaptation of the circular of 23 December 2016 on the implementation of multidisciplinary cooperation concerning victims of trafficking in human beings and/or certain aggravated forms of trafficking in human beings. A chapter is devoted to minor victims with particular attention to Belgian victims. A working group has been set up both on the part of the French Community and the Flemish Community. The aim of these groups is to improve the detection of child victims of all forms of trafficking in human beings, including sexual exploitation. In addition, collaboration has been established with federated entities to increase awareness of trafficking in human beings among youth workers. However, various questions arose during the work. This is why it has been proposed to draft an addendum "Minor victims of trafficking in human beings" to the National Action Plan to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings 2015-2019. This addendum aims to formulate several proposals for action to improve the detection, identification, guidance and protection of all minor victims of trafficking. At the level of the French Community, for example, training for the youth aid sector has been organised by the Cell and the French Community. The German-speaking Community was also associated. As a result of these trainings, it was decided to continue such initiatives and to set up a working group on implementation. At the level of the Flemish Community, Child Focus conducted an exploratory study in 2015 on the problem of overboys, teenage pimps, in Flanders. The specific objective of the study was to focus on an approach plan for victims. On the basis of several recommendations of the report, an action plan for better protection of minors victims of sexual exploitation and procuring was drafted and updated in 2018. Questions were also raised as to the articulation of the competences of the youth assistance sector with the multidisciplinary circular on victim orientation. Discussions are still under way at this stage and the multidisciplinary circular will be adapted accordingly. Since 2019, Payoke has been designated as the reference centre for all minor victims of sexual exploitation in Flanders. These exclusive powers and associated funds were granted by the Flemish Government. In concrete terms, this means that any organisation working with the target group of minor victims of sexual exploitation and recognised by the Flemish Agency for the Protection of Youth or the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities, will contact Payoke in case of suspicion of such victimization for the evaluation of the latter. During this evaluation, agreements are reached on additional assistance that may be provided by Payoke. Currently, the Unit's office is developing a new action plan for trafficking in human beings for the period 2021-2025. Finally, the criminal law relating to sexual offences will be reformed. Emphasis will be placed on combating the sexual exploitation of minors. On the question of whether we are contemplating establishing, as in France, an inter-ministerial committee, given that this issue falls within the general framework of trafficking in human beings, I can refer to the Unit I mentioned. The Unit was established in 2004 to coordinate Belgian policy on trafficking and trafficking in human beings. It brings together all federal actors, both political and operational, who are active in the fight against trafficking and trafficking and who are responsible for the development of a Belgian policy on these phenomena. Since the Unit only meets twice a year, an office has been established. This office, composed of the main departments involved in the fight, meets monthly under the chairmanship of the Justice FPS, so that there is a constant exchange between the various partners. As far as studies are concerned, I refer you to the study of Child Focus in Flanders, to which I referred. Following this research on child victims of procuring in Flanders in 2015, Child Focus conducted a similar exploratory research in Brussels in 2019. In both reports, recommendations were made for the support of these victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u3	Minister, thank you for your full answers. If I asked you about this, it is because it refers to the problem of the precariousness of young people exacerbated by the crisis. This precariousness pushes young people into prostitution and therefore exposes them to great insecurity. In this respect, I am pleasantly surprised by the initiatives taken in recent years, at all levels of power, but also by the reform of the Penal Code. I think we need to go further towards a more coordinated management between youth assistance, as you said, the centres for combating trafficking in human beings, justice and the police and between the different levels of power. It is precisely in this sense that you go with different working groups and circulars that, at some point, will have to be evaluated in order to verify their correct application. As far as the Payoke reference centre is concerned, that is a very good thing. Here too, however, an evaluation should be carried out. If this centre is bearing fruit, why not generalize it and ensure that other reference centres are established. A single centre of reference in Belgium may seem too little to me. When I wrote my question, I remembered that we had the same debate in the Federal Parliament in 2017, when an advertising campaign was conducted at the entrance to the ULB to try to encourage some girls to use prostitution services to finance their studies. The Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities of the time replied: "I assume that young students are still better armed and more able to defend themselves than poor young foreign women who hide behind the classifieds and are exposed in the showcases." The call that I make tends to encourage your firm to give itself the means to protect all young girls from the insecurity and insecurity to which they are exposed, whether they are of foreign origin or not. They must be given equal treatment. All these girls must be protected, regardless of their origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u4	Madam President, Minister, a week ago I asked your colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Sophie Wilmès, about the fate of the Belgian citizen Paul Rusesabagina, who was abducted on 31 August in Dubai. It is a real kidnapping, completely illegal under international law. He is currently in prison in Kigali. For some questions I asked, she sent me back to you. Mr Minister, have Belgian justice and security services ever had any criticism to make of this Belgian citizen? Did he carry out illegal, criminal activities here? Do the allegations of terrorism made by the Rwandan regime have any basis? A search took place at the home of this Belgian citizen. What about it? Why the search? Has there been any cooperation with Rwanda, its diplomats, its intelligence services? What were the reasons for this search? Rwandese services are extremely well known in Belgium. You have recently rightly denounced the presence of Moroccan intelligence services at the Great Mosque in Brussels. I look forward to it – this is an opportunity to tell you. Is it not so time to clean up compared to other intelligence services that are very active in Belgium? Finally, should this matter not prompt us to break the memorandum of understanding signed between the Belgian intelligence services and the Rwandan security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u5	Madam President, my colleague, on your first question, State Security cannot provide information on individual cases. If, in the course of its investigations, the Sûreté de l'Etat finds punishable acts, it shall inform the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office accordingly. In answer to your second question, traditionally, the State Security does not comment on its possible collaboration with specific partners. This approach could undermine international collaboration as confidence between services is generally based on discretion. For your third question, the Federal Prosecutor's Office provided me with the following information. In September 2019, a search was carried out in the Belgian home of Paul Rusesabagina by a Belgian investigating judge and Belgian investigators of federal policy; this search was requested by the Rwandan judicial authorities in the framework of official judicial cooperation, the execution of which was authorized by the Court of Justice concerning the prosecutions currently being carried out by Paul Rusesabagina in Rwanda. As already mentioned in previous replies from my predecessor in September 2020, a file concerning this person was opened in parallel with the Federal Prosecutor's Office. It deals with acts described as "participation in the activities of a terrorist group". This case was opened following the issuance of an international arrest warrant issued by the Rwandan authorities on behalf of Paul Rusesabagina, and the impossibility of extraditing the person concerned, having regard to his Belgian nationality. This case was brought to trial in July 2019. This Belgian case is still under way and will obviously have to take account of the prosecution in Rwanda. No Rwandan authorities participated in the search of September 2019, neither judicial nor police authorities nor intelligence services. All rules of international judicial cooperation have been respected. Let me turn to your fourth question. As part of its legal mission, the State Security Agency is looking for activities of espionage and interference which constitute a threat, inter alia, to scientific and economic potential, democratic order, international relations and others. With this in mind, the State Security also pays attention to threats against foreign communities established in our territory. Appropriate measures to reduce the risk or eliminate the threat are taken on a case-by-case basis, based on the results of the investigators. In other words, the concrete opportunity depends on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. I obviously do not know the contents of the file. What can be said here is that, in a case where Belgium's cooperation was requested, notably in the context of a search in September 2019, finally, this Belgian citizen was abducted, kidnapped in a completely illegal manner by the Rwandan authorities. This simple fact should raise important substantive questions about the desirability of continuing judicial cooperation with a country that commits perfectly illegal acts like these. In the future, it seems to me extremely important to take into account the way in which the Rwandan authorities operate today, the way in which they deal with their opponents – we know that this is not an isolated case – and the way in which they have sometimes been able to assassinate some of their opponents. I therefore urge you to consider all these elements in the pursuit of cooperation with a country that behaves in this way. Above all, I also ask you to ensure that this Belgian citizen can be treated in accordance with international law and law and to be vigilant in this regard with regard to the fate reserved for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u7	Madam President, Minister, there has been a lot to do about the house bans. There was my colleague's written question, which we have looked at here. I have examined with you in this committee the figures you gave in response to other questions on the subject. I said that something must be done very urgently. That's why I've submitted an interview. We see that house bans as a preventive measure are carried out only in Limburg and Antwerp, although they can greatly relieve the bees' nest in matters of partner violence. The figures for the last five years are still low, but when we look at the other provinces, we see that in Brussels, Flemish Brabant, West and East Flanders there are zero house bans. It is therefore a regulation that exists, but which is simply not being applied. In your reply, the public prosecutors spoke about other measures being applied, but I do not know which one. In another part of your reply, it was said that a lot of police forces do not even know that this preventive measure exists. Hence the request that I make today by means of a motion to intensify its operation. The services need to know that they can work with this measure and that they can do good work with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Bury, let us first and foremost reduce your relevant questions to the right proportions. I will not claim that 702 removals are a lot in five years, but it is also correct if you say that there are virtually none. Secondly, I do not think there is a causal link between the priority for intra-family violence held by the prosecution and the number of expulsions. In other words, the fact that there were no more house bans perhaps had other explanations. In addition, I can tell from very recent figures in the year 2020 that the increasing trend in the number of house bans continued in 2020. The first six months, after the start of the first lockdown, were imposed no less than 132 house bans. So there is certainly a positive evolution to be noticed. Also at the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet, there were six house bans for the first half of 2020. How come this is finally going up, I dare say? In 2019, as you know, the law on the ban was amended. At the beginning of 2020, the College of Attorneys-General approved a circular to give a number of instructions to the prosecutors, COL 18/2012. One of the objectives of the revision of the circular was to encourage the public prosecutors to use this extra resource, the ban on housing, in the fight against partner violence and to include it in the relevant criminal policy, in particular in relation to behaviour which is a serious and immediate threat but which does not appear to be a crime. The message here is clear: make more use of the temporary ban. As part of the federal action plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence, it was also included as a point of action that I call on the Attorney General to urge the prosecutors to apply more systematically and strictly the ban on temporary housekeeping for those who commit intra-family violence. I've done the same thing in the meantime. In addition, it is also important to continue to focus on the Family Justice Centres that is a Flemish competence, or a Community competence................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Those Family Justice Centres are already active in Limburg and Antwerp. I have heard from the competent minister in Flanders that there will be other centres in other provinces as well. It is crucial that the actors are able to communicate efficiently and quickly, both among themselves and with those involved. In addition, it is intended that the King's Attorney systematically seizes the Victim's Reception Service by communicating relevant information as soon as possible and at the latest on the first working day following the decision to ban the house. Furthermore, the prosecutor should systematically instruct the courthouse to accompany and follow up the home placement during the temporary restraining order, by communicating relevant information as soon as possible and at the latest on the first working day following the decision to ban the house. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that the instrument of the ban on housekeeping is regularly placed on the agenda of the expertise network "Missing Against Persons," including a police representation by the Permanent Commission of Local Police. In addition, the College of Attorney General holds regular meetings with the police. The awareness of the correct use of the ban is also systematically discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u9	Minister, I see that you are doing something about it, for which I thank you. You are working on it, and you certainly don't care, no matter what I notice from your answer. The positive evolution of 132 removals is good, of which six are in Flemish Brabant. That's a start. The fact that this can be associated with the Family Justice Centres is indeed a very interesting fact. I also know that you are not the Minister responsible for this matter. You mentioned it earlier, but we are still waiting for these additional centres in several provinces. I repeat, they are not your jurisdiction. Nevertheless, you are also pulling the right sleeves in that area. Thanks to intensifying, we have 132 house bans as a preventive measure in six months' time. After all, a woman in five is the victim of partner violence. Moreover, we are talking about figures that we do not have in a corona crisis, with a third wave that is likely to arrive and people who have a shorter fuse as a result. Those figures will therefore also increase. That is why I am tabling a motion to definitely intensify that part of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u10	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having regard to the poignant figures of the number of home prohibitions imposed over the last five years, in particular 702, which is negligible, knowing that one in five women has ever been the victims of partner violence; - having regard to the fact that, at five years' time, no house ban was imposed at all in Flemish Brabant, East Flanders or in the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. Barely once in Brussels and eight times in West Flanders (only the provinces of Limburg and Antwerp go sporadically to a house ban); - having regard to the fact that few victims are able to find their way to aid measures as a result of the corona measures; - having regard to the fact that there are many interventions by the police, but that these services often do not know that a temporary house ban can be imposed in cases where no criminal offence has yet been committed; asks the government - to provide police and magistrates with the necessary training and resources to make the temporary ban more known so that it can be applied more as a preventive measure." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: " The House, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice responsible for the North Sea; - in view of the alarming figures concerning the number of residence bans imposed over the last five years, 702, an insignificant number when one in five women is known to be victims of domestic violence; - in view of the fact that in five years no residence ban has been imposed in Flemish Brabant, Eastern Flanders and the judicial district of Hal-Vilvorde, only one in Brussels and eight in West Flanders (only the provinces of Limburg and Antwerp impose sporadic residence bans); - since measures to combat coronavirus prevent many victims from coming into contact with aid services; - since there are many police interventions but police services often do not know that a temporary ban on residence can be imposed in cases where a criminal offence has not yet been found; asks the government - to provide the police and magistrates with the necessary training and means to raise awareness of the temporary ban on residence, so that this measure can be more effectively applied as a preventive measure." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u11	Mr Minister, I am synthesizing my questions, because I have submitted a lot of them. I'm not giving you any facts this time either. I refer to the previous questions. You outlined to me last week the theoretical framework of cross-border observations versus the controlled and, above all, monitored episodes. You said the federal prosecutor was asked to apply that to the Essex case. Of course, I am very curious to see what that research has resulted in. It is very important that the Dutch public prosecutor says that there would be no indications of trafficking in human beings or any other criminal offence, which is completely contrary to the information from the Belgian Pv, as was shown by an answer to a previous written question from me. It is true that there are suspicions of human trafficking and the Dutch observation to know the destination and data of human trafficking. Apparently, in the Netherlands they still pretend it was a school trip, while apparently there was more going on. Of course, that has important implications. Should the federal prosecutor have been informed? Shouldn't the franc have fallen in Belgium anyway that something was wrong? Should the special forces have intervened in Anderlecht? I had also asked Minister Verlinden a question, but it was assigned to you. She largely overlaps with the questions I have asked you, but there is an extra element. Minister Verlinden previously replied to me that the police should not inform the Voogdij service because the police had not physically found the young person. In my view, she added a condition which is not laid down in the law of custody, which provides for the obligation to inform the Voogdijk service if an authority is aware of what was the case here. I would like to know your opinion on that. Finally, new elements emerged in a recent article in De Standaard. From an answer to a previous written question from me we already knew that the address in Anderlecht occurred in an investigation in West Flanders, that after the facts in Essex became the federal investigation. Now it turns out that that smuggling address was already in the picture at the GP West Flanders in a pv dated 17 October, when the young people were still at the smuggling address in Anderlecht. That is all the more worrying, because the question has been asked for some time whether action should not have been taken or whether many opportunities have not been missed. Did the concrete information on the possible safehouse in Brussels not serve to be included in the ANG, in accordance with the guidelines? Should we not or should we not have been informed in Brussels when the young people arrived in Anderlecht? Above all, how come on or after 17 October, after the pv, there was still no intervention at the address in Anderlecht? Did anyone in West Flanders know that a minor had turned up in their investigation? Has that gotten to Brussels? Why didn't they act at the time? Over and over again, I would like to stress this. I want to know what we have learned now, so that we do not have to go through another Essex drama. We must draw the lessons that we can already draw effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u12	Mr Segers, last week I answered you in abstracto. Today I will give you a concrete answer. When reading the articles in the press, more specifically in De Standaard on 29 and 30 January 2021, I ask myself many questions just like you. Especially when I add that to everything that has already been said in the Committee on Justice. Before giving you concrete answers, I would like to say the following. First of all, you ask the right questions. It is crucial that we have a complete and clear answer to this, for the victims and for the relatives, in order to draw the necessary lessons if necessary. Secondly, I have personally explicitly asked the Federal Prosecutor and the Director General of the Federal Judicial Police to investigate what has happened internally. Who did what or didn't just do it? What information was available at what time? How have the different managements of the FGP fulfilled their legal obligation in this case with regard to international police cooperation? How does the coordination of information and communication with the Justice Department proceed? I also asked for this issue to be discussed and evaluated at Eurojust level in order to examine closely the international aspect and police and judicial cooperation, for example in the context of the forwarding and/or delivery of persons, and to evaluate it. Thirdly, I want to express my confidence in the federal prosecutor and the Director-General of the FGP. It is clear that they are taking this investigation seriously and are doing everything possible to obtain full clarity in this complex issue of international trafficking in human beings. They are not blind to your questions and my questions. Let's get that straight. Fourthly, I must remain cautious in my answers, firstly because there is an ongoing judicial investigation. The federal prosecutor federalised the investigation into the facts, as you know, when it appeared that the container in which 39 victims were found came from Belgium. In that judicial investigation, four persons were provisionally detained in remand, one person was requested to be extradited to Germany via a European arrest mandate, and one person was arrested in the United Kingdom. So there will be a trial in our country. You know that as Minister of Justice and as a member of the executive, I cannot, may or will not anticipate it. Even if I did show this openness, I do not know today whether I already have all the elements to inform you fully about the national and certainly international aspects of research. You also know that I, as the Minister of Justice, certainly cannot judge at the moment the conduct of this service or that service, because that would amount to prejugés in mines. So please understand, I am focusing on two elements: the need for clarity and transparency in this dossier versus the need for an ongoing investigation, while ensuring that the principles of our rule of law, such as the presumption of innocence and the right to defence, are respected. I apologise for my very comprehensive answer, but I think it is important to clearly outline the context of my answers. Last week I had the opportunity to explain the theory, in particular the cross-border observation under Article 40 of the Schengen Convention (SUA) and the rules on the monitoring, controlled delivery and transmission of persons. So I don't have to go back on that. I will now give a concrete answer to your specific questions. In relation to your question about the crossing of borders by the Netherlands and the notification to Belgium, I can inform you that the federal court was not informed of the crossing of borders. In the circumstances, that was not necessary either. The elements of the response of the federal judicial police show that the permanentity of the Executive Board of the judicial police operations (DJO) was contacted by the competent Dutch services on 11 October 2019 at 18.28 hours with the information that, during an observation at the protected shelter in the Netherlands, a minor Vietnamese was picked up by a Belgian taxi and that the Dutch operative had crossed the border with Belgium at 18.15 hours. The permanent officer of the DJO replies that Belgium cannot authorise because the conditions are not met. As far as he was concerned, it was a handover of persons, which is impossible. The Dutch operative still continues to drive. The permanent officer of the DJO then contacts the federal judicial police (FGP) of Limburg to take over the case and intervene. At that time the vehicle was moving towards Brussels. The DJO's permanence officer will then contact the permanent officer of the FGP Brussels. At that time, the Dutch operative took an exit on the Ring and headed towards Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. The document relating to Article 40 shall be forwarded by the DJO to the FGP Brussels. The Brussels Permanentity Service then contacts the Dutch operative part, where they are informed that they are in Anderlecht, near the 93 Gespstraat where the two minors were dropped off. Then I shall come to the notification to the competent court. It follows from the answers received from the FGP that the Brussels permanence informs the magistrate with the service of the Brussels parquet. The magistrate shall give his agreement to the application for an Article 40. There has been a detailed telephone interview between the magistrate with the service of the Brussels parquet and the competent Dutch prosecutor about whether there were sufficient elements available that immediately required further investigation in the event of urgency. Following this consultation, the Belgian magistrate with service ruled that there were insufficient elements for immediate further investigation and intervention. These latter elements have already been communicated to you by my predecessor in response to your previous questions. The Brussels permanentity informed the DJO of the decision of the magistrate with the service of the public prosecutor, in particular that an application for Article 40 was authorised and that the operative part was not delivered. The Gespstraat 93 in Anderlecht as an element of research. The FGP Brussels, Human Smuggling Team, was informed of the elements of the cross-border observation of the Netherlands by e-mail on 16 October 2019. On 16 October 2019, the FGP Brussels will inform the FGP West-Flanders, Team Human Smuggling, of the elements of cross-border observation. The FGP West Flanders informs FGP Brussels on the same day that the address Gespstraat 93 in Anderlecht appears in an ongoing judicial investigation as an address where the prime suspect, being the prime suspect in the ongoing investigation of the FGP West Flanders, might move to by the end of October 2019. The address was not known to the ANG at that time. On 16 October 2019, in the ongoing judicial investigation in West Flanders, there were no indications of smuggling from the Gespstraat 93 in Anderlecht, nor that the prime suspect in the investigation had contacts with people from the same state, except with the owner who was registered at another address, nor that the prime suspect had anything to do with the minor who ran away from the Netherlands. Then there is the regulation of offences where minors are suspected to be involved. There are clear guidelines from the College of Attorney General on what should happen if it is considered that minors are in danger. I refer in particular to the 2014 COL 12 on missing persons. Section 2.2.4, page 44 et seq. of that COL describes what should be done in the event of the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. If the situation is considered worrying, contact the magistrate of duty immediately. If the situation is not considered worrying, a report must be drawn up and delivered to the court in the next day per carrier. One should always contact the DVZ Cell Minors. In the event of a suspicion of a situation of human trafficking or trafficking in human beings, the report should explicitly state that the reference magistraat Vermissingen must inform the reference magistraat Mensenhandel and Mensenmukkelen. Mr Segers, I would also like to mention that, together with my colleague for Asylum and Migration, I have restarted the working group on the prevention and disappearance of unaccompanied minors, with the aim of establishing an operational roadmap and sharing information between partners. I am also in contact with Child Focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I do not just say that, I think it is a very strong answer, that is not the case with every question to every minister. I am very grateful for that. The information itself I have yet to let come to me a little bit. I'm going to read it all again quietly. I've also learned in this case that any comma can be counted. I would like to reiterate that it is particularly important to me that we learn from it. It is not intended to point the finger at specific persons. At the same time, this case, this drama and the Mawda case are good reasons to examine everything and to ensure that it gets better. After all, there are parallels that I have recently noticed. In both cases, Mawda and Essex, things have gone wrong with a cross-border operation. The theory of the controlled episode is very important here. In both cases it also appears that things have gone wrong with the input of information into ANG. However, I do not want to anticipate your further investigation too much. However, we must look at this further. We have very good legislation on paper on human trafficking and trafficking in human beings, but in both cases the legislation was not complied with. We have mechanisms to inform certain services so that the best possible and qualified people can get to work. That didn't happen here. Those are the three parallels I draw and I will certainly come back to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u14	Mr Minister, you may understand that it is a little frustrating that now that the systems of route control purchased by Flanders can finally enter into force after five years, it appears that the police and the judiciary will probably not be able to handle the processing. Flashes that don't flash and route checks without being checked will not have the desired effect on road safety, road safety that you are highly committed to. The government has committed itself in the coalition agreement to increase the chances of getting caught in traffic offences. It is therefore important that the speed cameras and the route controls work. I understand you have not been able to digitize the entire Justice Department in the slightly more than a hundred days you have been Minister. That takes time, and I understand that, but I hope and expect that you will be able to work on this soon, so that the flashlights can flash and traffic checks can be carried out. Minister, what elements are already digital in the processing of traffic fines? What processes are still lacking for a fully digital process? What timing do you stick to the next step in the digitisation of the traffic fines process? What steps have you taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u15	I will confine my answer to my Justice policy area. Road safety is indeed one of my absolute priorities. Already when I was mayor, my city, with a zone 30 since the late '90s, was flashed. People used to think that was weird. Luckily, that's going to be a normality today. That is why, from the start of this legislature, I am investing in the financial punishment of road traffic offences. Indeed, the Crossborder project has been able to ensure that almost all processes and sub-processes are linked to traffic fines, digitally. All non-core tasks of both police, justice and finance were digitised and automated as much as possible. Once the pv is ready, the files will be created automatically. The minutes and the immediate collection or amicable settlement shall be automatically generated and printed. In case of non-payment, a follow-up will automatically be done through a reminder and a first increase. After that, the file will automatically generate a payment order after the legal deadline. In case of payment, the system will automatically match them. In case of any dispute via the website, it will automatically be added to the file and the necessary actions for the magistrate will be listed. For example, in recent years we have seen a large increase in the number of files processed and we can report that 93% of the traffic fines issued in our country are effectively collected. In addition to many additional findings, the project was able to digitize and automate the administrative workload of more than 300 FTEs. The funds released could be used to increase the chances of being caught. The link with the citizen is also digitized as much as possible. In the coming weeks, by the way, we will also fully digitize the dispute over the traffic fines with our renewed website. Only the very last step before the court has yet to be digitized by creating a digital file. A digital file for vice facts and intra-family violence will be realized this year and will serve as a model for the digital traffic file. Although we want to digitize the various processes as much as possible, certain tasks will never be fully automated. For example, the prosecution remains responsible for the disputes that have been brought and must therefore decide whether or not they should be brought before the courts. It also brings recidivists or those who commit a serious offence to court, so that they do not work by way of a fine. Of course, the handling of appeals against the payment order remains a human task. We won't replace judges with robots, but neither is your question. In consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, I am looking at centralising and improving the handling of certain tasks in order to deal with the additional workload as efficiently as possible. So far, my overview of how the Justice Department can continue to be digitised so that it can work as quickly as possible and for the entire duration of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u16	Thank you for your answers. You mentioned earlier that you have a high priority for road safety. That is clear again from your full answer. Indeed, it is by no means my question to replace people with robots. But we must try to digitize processes wherever possible. I understand that this is already the case in 93 %; so great progress has certainly been made. Soon I will also have a question for your Home Affairs colleague about what is needed to ensure that the route checks work properly. That must indeed be the aim if we are to increase road safety. I hear you're a partner in that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u17	Frau Vorsitzende, Herr Minister, wir bleiben bei der Digitalisierung. Ich kanna nur Ihren Willen Begrüben dass man vorangeht mit der Digitalisierung. Allerdings ist es so, dass die dann auch alle Bürger gleichmäbig zu Verfügung stehen muss. Herr Minister, da ist es leider so dass es zu seit nicht der Fall ist. Es ist ganz besonders nicht der Fall für unsere deutschsprachige Mitbürger aber auch nicht für die Justizbeamten im Justizbezirk Eupen. Das wird schon seit mehrere Jahren angeprangert beziehungsweise schon seit mehrere Jahren aufmerksam auf gemacht. Es ist allerdings eine gesetzliche Vorgabe, diese Dienstleistungen auch auf Deutsch zu Verfügung zu stellen. Das ist bislang noch nicht geschehen, weder in der progressive Informatisierungsinstrumenten die Justiz zu verfügung stellt noch auf Ihre offizielle Webseite beziehungweise auf der offizielle Webseite des FÖD Justiz. Daher auch meine Fragen, Herr Minister. Sind Sie sich dessen bewusst? Wissen Sie auch schon, was Sie da ganz konkret tun können, um diese gesetzliche Vorgaben auch effizient Folge zu leisten, eben auch im Sinnen der deutschsprachige Mitbürger unseres Landes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u18	Minister, are you going to answer in German?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u19	Frau Vorsitzende, Kollege Jadin, I was antworten auf Französisch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u20	That's okay. Ich verstehe Französisch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u21	Dear colleague, we recognize that the provision of information in the German language of the Justice FPS is imperfect. However, we would like to point out that, wherever possible, we offer essential messages in the three national languages and, if necessary, supplemented by other language versions. With respect to FPS Justice applications, I can provide you with a detailed status report. I will email you all the applications and status of their German-speaking version. There are more than ten applications, mostly available in German, and a few others that are not yet available. Although the German domain name justice.belgium.be is active, the entire content is not available in German. We analyze which option is most appropriate. For technical and budgetary reasons, we currently offer the crucial information and forms in German on our site, which the visitor finds via an external search engine. In addition to the Justice FPS website, we also manage the verkehrsstrafen.be and ihrestrafe.be sites, available in German. We try to work in four languages in a standard way for all new sites. The standardization of software is a legitimate demand but it is not easy because it requires a standardization of processes. Previously, the top-down approach imposed on the judiciary has not really worked. Currently, in consultations with the representatives of the two colleges (courts and courts and prosecutors' offices), with the prison administration and with the central administration, important work is being done to develop a vision of information and communication technologies for the coming years. The aim is to scan various uniform features step by step and link them to existing applications. From now on, these developments will always include the requirement to be available in at least the three national languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u22	Frau Vorsitzende, Herr Minister, das sind auf jedenfalls schon ermutigende Antworten. Ich höre auch, dass Sie bei Ihrem Wunsch nach verbesserte Digitalisierung der Justiz die deutsche Sprache mit berücksichtigen. Das finde ich absolut begrübenswert. Ich weib aus Erfahrung, dass wenn der Staat einnimmt beziehungsweise finanzielle Einnahmen macht, das generell in einer Landessprache gut funktioniert. Das wundert mir jetzt nicht und das ist auch in Ordnung so. Ich muss allerdings noch mal darauf hinweisen, dass was die Uniformisierung der informatische Instrumenten betrifft, man durchaus noch Verbesserungen vornehmen muss. Das ist klar. Herr Minister, ich könnte Sie auch sehr gerne einladen, wenn wir es wieder dürfen, mal in den Justizbezirk Eupen zu kommen, um sich dann auch mal ein genaues Bild der Lage zu machen. Mit Freude werde ich das tun.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u23	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, 513 prisoners have tested positively since the beginning of the pandemic until 29 January. At the end of last week, 35 infectious covid patients stayed in prison. 24 out of 44 covid-free beds in the covid departments in Bruges and Lantin have been taken. By the way, I visited the last one last week. None of the prisoners are staying in an external hospital. In the penitentiary staff, 38 staff had a quarantine certificate on 29 January. The number of infections in the personnel is not officially recorded as they are not legally obliged to report them to the employer. To date, 753 covid infections have been reported in the personnel. That's an indicative figure. I come to your second question. I have indeed decided that the measure will be extended for a further period of two months, subject to an early end on 31 March 2021. The measure remains necessary to deal with the sanitary crisis, given that there have recently been new infections in Bruges, I think. The ministerial decision in which that decision was taken will be published in the Belgian Official Journal shortly. As far as your third question is concerned, the risks of the introduction of infections from the free society by constantly leaving and entering prison have remained fundamentally the same. Moreover, on the basis of the information available, it could be assumed that these risks would not be fundamentally reduced either before the total population in prison has been vaccinated. Since it is already known that the vaccination of the detainees will not be possible to be carried out before the end of March 2021, those measures should therefore be extended, for exit permits and penitentiary leave, until 31 March 2021. That's not true for the limited detention. There is no need to suspend that modality, because limited detention is about prisoners who are separated from the other prisoners. So far, this has been the case since the 2nd of November, the modality has not been suspended either. Hence, in the Ministerial Decree, it is limited to the exit permit and the penitentiary leave. The provisions of the Law of 20 December on early release remain in force until 31 March 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u24	Minister, you say that penitentiary personnel are not obliged to report a contagion. I think that is a great risk, because it is not as obvious when they come to work infected. When we see how strict we want to deal with people who travel and do not take a test, I think that is a scratch. For the rest, I note that you have already extended the measures concerning the interruption of the sentence for two months, but the ministerial decision has not yet been published. That would follow this week. I should like to say something about this: we had a debate on this at the time, and that was laid down in legislation. It is a matter of not agreeing on this, but I am sorry that this measure is being extended in a tough manner. That is one of the things Parliament can actually take note of in the Belgian Official Journal. However, it is important for the core tasks of justice and therefore for a debate to be held, including in Parliament. I really regret that this is happening in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you today about a video of two police officers from the Brussels-Midi police area. By watching this video, we see these two agents, a window down, on a festive music, uttering racist and homophobic insults to passers-by. This kind of behaviour is unacceptable, Minister, in a society that claims to be democratic. On this point, I think I can say that you share my point of view. Such acts are not only an insult to the passers-by concerned, but also to all other members of the police who try to do their job properly, to ensure the integrity of our law enforcement forces and whose image is tainted by the unworthy and unacceptable behaviour of two uniformed police officers. At the time of the facts, a complaint was filed with the Public Prosecutor's Office to denounce the facts. However, the King's prosecutor considered that this case should be closed without further action. In view of the seriousness of the facts, how was this possible? I would like to have an explanation on this, minister. Furthermore, are you going to use your power of injunction to request the initiation of an investigation into this case or do you think that the latter is not serious enough to use this power?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u26	Madam President, Mr Boukili, I, like you, have, of course, been strongly challenged by these behaviours. As I have already had the opportunity to mention in my policy statement, I believe that the police services must behave in an exemplary manner, not only as a public authority, but also as a means of inspiring respect for all citizens. As for the development of the case, initially, it had been closed to give priority to disciplinary action. This is a practice based on the una via principle. This means that a person cannot be prosecuted before two organs for the same acts. To the extent that the Council of State has overturned the sanction decision issued by the disciplinary authority – apparently, the sanction proposal was notified to the person concerned three days too late – the prosecution can resume the criminal case since there is no disciplinary sanction. Having learned of the outcome of the disciplinary procedure following the decision of the Council of State, the Public Prosecutor's Office has taken over the case in order to assess whether criminal proceedings can be carried out there. Indeed, a classification without further action is not a final decision and can always be reviewed in the light of new elements. I would also like to inform you that this analysis is under way to date. It is therefore necessary to await the final conclusions of the Prosecutor's Office in this regard. In their day-to-day work, the public prosecutor's offices endeavour to provide adequate criminal responses for such conduct which falls within the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u27	Minister, thank you for that answer. I'm hearing that the prosecution is taking over the case. This is good news because such a case must not be forgotten. She has to be taken in charge to set an example. I'll join you when you say our police force must be exemplary. I remember your policy statement. That's why I'm asking you about it. Indeed, it cannot be accepted that, in a democracy, such acts are committed or that such statements are made by police officers who wear uniforms and are supposed to enforce the law, even though they themselves do not respect it. There is a lot of impunity at this level. He has been seen in several cases such as the Chovanec case, the WhatsApp groups or Facebook. There are repeated racist comments. It is time to take this in hand to restore that trust between the police and the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u28	Mr President, Minister, it is reported that tomorrow the ruling of the Antwerp correction court in the case against the Iranian diplomat Assadollah Assadi is expected, due to the planning of a foiled terrorist attack in 2018 at a Paris congress of the Iranian opposition group MEK. The court demands the maximum sentence of twenty years incarcerated for the accused diplomat. Iran has already stated that the ruling will not be recognised, according to the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iran at the end of November. Iran has tried in the past to use political prisoners as a means of exerting pressure. Iran was reportedly willing to organise a prisoner exchange in the case of Professor Ahmadreza Djalali. Has Iran in any way steered a prisoner exchange for Professor Djalali? Have the Iranian authorities contacted the Belgian authorities in any way? As Iran is increasing pressure on this dossier, I wonder how the independence of justice can be guaranteed. As I understand it, additional security measures will be taken tomorrow. Have you discussed this with the Minister of the Interior? Will the trial affect the assessment of the level of threat in our country, both during the trial and after the verdict? Have you discussed this with the OCAD?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u29	Mrs Samyn, you will understand that I cannot go into detail on your first question. In general, it is correct that the Iranian regime likes to steer a deal or a prisoner exchange. However, I would like to add immediately that the principles of our rule of law cannot be the subject of a cow trade, let alone a carpet market. These are facts of alleged state terrorism which have been thoroughly investigated by the federal prosecutor and in the meantime submitted to an independent court. It is correct that the court will pass a verdict tomorrow, February 4th. We look forward to judgment with interest. Of course, we leave nothing to chance and there is frequent consultation with the services of the Interior. Of course, I will not abandon the nature and content of the security measures in the interests of their effectiveness, because people are still listening to them. You also asked a question about the threat level in our country. At the request of the services involved in the detention and security of the process of Mr Assadi and others, the OCAD has made several evaluations. The OCAD established the threat level on the basis of the information provided by the support services, in particular the police, State Security and ADIV. Together with the other analyses, the services concerned were able to provide security on the basis of the threat level, both for detention, transfer from prison to court, and for the trial itself. It goes without saying that, at the request of the relevant services, the OCAD will continue the evaluation work of the threat thereafter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I fully understand the delicateness of the dossier. Unfortunately, since Iran is taking a rather threatening attitude, it does not give me much confidence in the fact that the Justice Department will be able to rule on this matter. I have expressed my confidence that the Justice Department wants to do its job, but I think it will be difficult to speak straight in any case, as there are other factors involved. Not only is Belgium looking forward to the process, but the neighbouring countries also hope that justice is being spoken. It is therefore more about an international dossier. With regard to security measures, I hope, of course, that the police officers around the Justice Building will do their job on the day of the trial. However, it is not just about the day of the process itself, I was referring to my question in the somewhat longer term. I hope that the OCAD will continue to focus fully on the subsequent period, on Iranian elements, the so-called diplomats, the presence of possible Iranian cells on our territory. It is certainly also the responsibility of the federal government to assess in the future how it sees its relationship with a strict Islamic regime such as Iran, which we do not think can be regarded as a normal country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u31	Mrs Samyn, have no fear, but the full confidence in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u32	All right, I hope so with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u33	Minister, in October 2019, I learned from the then minister, Didier Reynders, that a former SS was receiving a German State pension for services rendered in the Third Reich. Apparently, he is not the only one since two weeks ago, I learned from the Foreign Minister, Sophie Wilmès, that nine people still receive a Nazi war pension in Belgium in 2021. These people are not necessarily German. Some Belgians are in fact beneficiaries of this, by virtue of a decree signed at the time by Adolf Hitler, granting them German nationality with the aim of thanking them for their loyalty, loyalty and obedience. Mr Minister, it goes without saying that in 2021 we do not want to accept that people, Belgian or German, still receive pensions on our Belgian territory for services rendered to the Third Reich, which is still one of the worst regimes that humanity has ever known. I think truth has to be done. There is a certain duty of memorial justice. This Parliament, this assembly, in fact, voted in 2019 – I was not there yet – a resolution calling at the end, to stop the payment of these pensions to former employees. So I come to my questions, which concern you. What data do you have today and which you have been able to transmit to Germany concerning employees convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier? Did you pass them on to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia? We know that it is this Lander who deals more specifically with the payment of these pensions. Who are they? What action has it taken for these persons, former employees or widows of employees to receive this pension? We have learned very recently that the Government of the Netherlands has received all the information from the German government, allowing them to identify persons who in the Netherlands are still receiving this Nazi pension. I therefore naturally think that if the Netherlands can, Belgium can, too. Were you able to receive, in connection with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this information from the German government as well as the Dutch government? My last question concerns a specific request for a resolution voted in 2019, supported by colleagues Sophie Rohonyi and Christophe Lacroix. The resolution called for the establishment of a scientific committee to look for the identity of the persons concerned in the granting and payment of these German pensions. And apart from Germany's agreement, even if the German government or the Bundestag does not agree with the setting up of this scientific committee, can you, at the level of the Belgian federal government, set up this scientific committee again to tell the truth? I believe that in 2021 we can no longer accept that even 9 people receive pensions for services rendered to the Hitler regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question, which echoes a problem that I know well, since last month I had the opportunity to answer a parliamentary question from your colleague, Mr Lacroix, which dealt with the same subject. As you know, the resolution adopted by the Chamber on 14 March 2019 provided, in its second point, that "the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia should be sent data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier". In so far as these are criminal convictions, which therefore depend on the Department of Justice, I undertook, in my reply, to implement the means to provide the list provided for in point 2 of the resolution. The research undertaken since then shows that in Belgium there are almost 80,000 criminal convictions by Belgian courts concerning collaborators during the Second World War. This is a significant number. The steps are currently being taken to identify those still alive who have been convicted on such grounds. For several years, both the Belgian authorities' parliamentary and diplomatic approaches have always faced Germany's refusal to transmit the personal data of the persons concerned by the disputed pensions. However, we were able, with the support of our Foreign Affairs colleagues, to obtain the following information. As of 19 January 2021, there were still nine war pension recipients in Belgium: four war invalids, including three Germans who settled in Belgium after the war, and four widows, three of whom were Belgian nationals, of men forced to work in Germany during the Second World War. According to the German authorities, there is no indication that these nine persons were convicted for acts of collaboration. With regard to your question concerning the list communicated to the Dutch authority, it would appear – according to the information received by our diplomatic post in Berlin – that Germany has published a list of Dutch citizens receiving German war compensation. This occurred in exchange for data for tax purposes. This information, if confirmed, could thus change the situation in so far as the argument raised by the German authorities that it is contrary to their legislation on the disclosure of personal data to provide the desired list of names no longer holds. New approaches should therefore be undertaken by our diplomacy in order to obtain explanations and explore possible avenues for obtaining the information we seek. If, like our Dutch colleagues, we could get answers, we could match the nine names with the list of convictions. With respect to the other questions asked, they are not within the purview of the Minister of Justice, including your request for the Scientific Committee. It's not my responsibility. I apologise and hope to have reassured you, however. Justice is working to implement the resolution. There is a lot of contact between my firm and the Attorney General responsible. Together with the College of Attorneys General and the Department of Foreign Affairs, we take this matter very seriously and you can count on my work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u35	Mr. Minister of Justice, thank you for your long response and, in particular, for your demonstrated willingness to find a solution. You take this matter seriously and I believe that, after 70 years of impunity, there is a need to finally do justice and to tell the truth about those people who still receive a pension for service to the Hitler regime. You mentioned 80,000 criminal convictions for acts of collaboration, be they Belgians or foreigners residing in our territory. This is obviously a lot and, at the same time, time is running out. We are in 2021 and we realize that this figure is only shrinking over time. As long as time goes by, as much as the months go by, the more one may not be able to do justice. As far as Germany's refusal is concerned, you have quoted the same figures as most recently provided by Foreign Minister Sophie Wilmès. I hear none of these people would have been convicted of war crimes. I have already heard this answer in the past several months, including from other ministers. The real problem here is also symbolic. Even if it is the widow of a convicted person and even if this widow, in particular, did not commit war crimes, even though she may not have collaborated with the Nazi regime, it is not normal in 2021 that she still receives some financial reward for the services rendered by her husband. It is on this principle that we really want to do the whole truth and do justice today. You said the list received by the Netherlands could change the situation. I therefore call on the diplomatic services of our country to do their utmost to receive the same information from the German authorities. If the Netherlands can, so can our country. Again, I believe that in 2021 it is high time to do justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u36	Madam President, Minister, we have just met in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on this subject. At the moment, questions are also being asked by colleagues to Minister Dermagne on the same subject. It is therefore a matter of concern to Parliament. Minister, you know that I am concerned about the discrepancy between, on the one hand, the new legislation being drafted and, on the other hand, the cessation of the moratorium on 31 January. You said earlier that the government will not ensure that these companies will be sued for bankruptcy, but, as you know, any interested party can apply for bankruptcy. What will you do to resolve this discrepancy and the current legal uncertainty? Why the moratorium was not extended, you explained earlier. In addition, a judicial reorganisation entails a certain administrative burden and financial cost, regardless of the legal costs you will drop. Accountants, among other things, must be involved. Will the smaller entrepreneurs not be discouraged from using this procedure? How do you look at that? The moratorium will not therefore be extended and new legislation will be introduced, but which stakeholders have been specifically consulted by the government to determine that the new system would be better?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has indeed already been an interesting discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where the MR proposal is discussed with amendments. I will answer the questions separately, because they are about the same theme, but they are of a different nature. Mr van Lommel, in reply to your question as to why the moratorium is not being extended, I am likely to repeat it, because I think I have already explained it in detail. The moratorium was a temporary emergency measure to cope with the economic shock, but it is a blunt instrument that can quickly cause too many negative effects. Today's debtors can become tomorrow's debtors and I have already pointed out the zombie companies. We must not overestimate the effect of the non-expansion. This measure was limited in scope and the moratorium did not apply between mid-June and mid-November. In the latter case, I can even talk about the end of December, given the fact that the Chamber did not approve it until mid-December. However, we have not seen a marked increase in the number of bankruptcies and we do not expect an immediate sharp increase. The vast majority of subpoenas in bankruptcies come from the government. I have also seen that fellow Minister Vincent Van Peteghem has just expressly confirmed that the IRS will not do subpoenas until April, which confirms what I have just said in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We therefore opt for further targeted aid and a structural solution to help companies. We will lower the thresholds for judicial reorganisation. In this way, companies, together with creditors, can draw up a payoff plan and prevent bankruptcies. We also provide for a new procedure, allowing us to mediate a solution before having to go into public court proceedings. This will allow companies to come out when there is already a solution. You also asked a question about SMEs. It is precisely because of our initiatives that entrepreneurs will be less exposed to a number of administrative burdens and financial costs, because until now many documents had to be added to the application for judicial reorganisation, in particular eleven documents. We shall be seriously cutting back on that. In our proposal, we give firms in difficulty more time to obtain those documents and the court has the opportunity to determine which missing documents still have to be drawn up during the course of the procedure. We've consulted with a lot of stakeholders. The names were communicated during the Economics Committee. At the request of the members of the N-VA, we will ask others about the amendments. As regards Mrs Houtmeyers' question on the main lines of the relaunch procedure, first, the threshold is lowered to facilitate access to the procedure. In this connection, we foresee that adding the eleven documents will no longer be punishable by inadmissibility. Secondly, a preliminary agreement procedure is being introduced, following the example of the American Prepackaged Bankruptcy. For example, a company can prepare an agreement without publication in the Belgian Official Journal. In addition, a tax exemption is provided for friendly agreements concluded through business intermediaries and homologisted by the court. Debt cancellations would otherwise constitute a taxable advantage for firms in difficulty. We have already discussed the situation in committee this morning. On your proposal, we will ask people again, including in the Finance Committee, and we will ask the Council of State for an urgent opinion. When will we submit the texts to the Council of Ministers? That's what happened. The Council of State will deliver an opinion and this is currently being discussed in the Chamber. How will you force the government not to rush things? I have told you that there will be no subpoenas from the government, and this is confirmed by my colleague Van Peteghem. Are the company courts sufficiently prepared? That's a good question. We will provide additional funds for the corporate courts under the €125 million envelope that Justice will receive this year. We will provide funds that the company courts themselves can use flexibly in the context of autonomous management according to the needs. In addition, our legislative initiative will give the chambers of business in difficulty more time to deal with these dossiers. You may have seen that we have increased the deadline. This gives the company courts further flexibility to shift the necessary capacity from the depistage chambers to the insolvency chambers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u38	Mr Minister, you are indeed referring to the debate we have just had in committee on the new legislative proposal of the MR. We support any measure that is considered necessary. I also understand that there are better resources than certain temporary emergency measures. Creditors can sometimes become debtors. That is a concern which we share, of course, and we have already received signals about it from the field. According to you, the vast majority of subpoenas come from the IRS. I still have the concerns of the other interested parties who can apply for bankruptcy. Those entrepreneurs are still exposed at the moment. You want to lower a number of thresholds in the new legislation. Eleven documents must be completed or added. They are becoming fewer, but they still have to be prepared in the end and they have to be brought in later. As a result, small entrepreneurs, who often shun the administrative burden and still have to employ a lot of accountants and so on, may not be able to do so. They might be pulling the alarm bell too late and eventually not filing a file. We must, of course, ensure that these little ones do not fall out of the way because of this measure, which is not bad in itself, for the sake of clarity. We must continue to pay attention to that. There is now a discrepancy or a vacuum. Although Mr Van Peteghem has already been able to reassure us until the end of April, we still have the same concerns about the other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u39	Minister, a number of things have already become clear this morning. We were initially not in favour of the moratorium, but that is, of course, in the past. We need to move on now. I remain concerned about the delegate judge. There, perhaps, things could be stalled and dragged to the limit, at the expense of healthy businesses and at the expense of creditors, just when our economy should be getting back on track. Let me explain something to you. I've already put my ear to the ears of a number of courts. They argue that it is the task of the delegate judge, or at least of a small group of judges specialising in business cases, which are not actually thickly sown, and that this is a very labour-intensive process. It would therefore often be treated by pensioners. The question that then arises is whether we will find enough people who are willing to sit through the entire process and look through all the files. We also know that the remuneration for this is not for writing home and may not be in line with the labour-intensive process. I think it's important that we get a look at that. Do you have an idea of the number per court? Furthermore, I remain concerned about the inequality between companies which now or soon will have to reorganise and those which will be able to benefit later from the new relaxations. Isn't there an unequal treatment there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u40	Minister, in order to acquire Belgian nationality, the legislator rightly requires that most people who want to become Belgian have to prove that they know one of the national languages. The Belgian Code also stipulates that language knowledge must be demonstrated, either by having received education here or by having received 400 hours of vocational training here or by having taken language lessons and having reached an A2 level of the European reference framework. I certainly do not dispute that knowledge of one of the country's languages. That's always been the point, and I should know. Together with Open Vld colleague Carina Van Cauter, I was part of the basis of the current legislation. We've always meant the acquisition of knowledge. Those concerned must know the language effectively. But what's happening now is weird. People who know the language orally, speak enough Dutch, French or German, or even speak the language perfectly. I even have examples of people who speak flat Antwerps, so to speak, are not eligible because they cannot read and write the language. They speak them perfectly, but they cannot write. We all know that in our country and, for example, in Flanders, 15% of adults already have difficulty reading and writing and that a certain proportion of those people are also completely illiterate. I support the fact that we have registered language skills as a condition. This had to do with the fact that we wanted people to be socially responsible and to be able to participate in society. That was about oral language skills. Because we had taken the European reference framework for the A2 level, we are now asking for both oral and written knowledge. Unia, too, has noted this and recommends that legislation should adapt the assessment procedures and provide opportunities for people who cannot read or write, but who speak the language properly and adequately. In my opinion, it is possible to test someone's language level without requiring him to be able to write the language. Someone does not have to participate in the Grand Dictee der Nederlandse Taal to prove that he or she speaks Dutch, for example. The Houses of Dutch and other authorities could then issue certificates, which they are already doing for naturalisations, for example. In the Committee on Naturalizations we accept such certificates for the knowledge of Dutch or French. This can then be tested by the district agent or supported by a certificate from a House of Dutch, for example. It seems logical to me that we should allow this, but it is bizarre that we have not provided for it in the legislation. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Will you put other methods of assessing language skills first for people who are effectively integrated, meet all legal requirements and speak one of the national languages but are illiterate? If yes, are you planning a change of law or can this be done with an MB or KB, for example? If not, do you consider anything else necessary or do you not consider a change necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u41	Mr President, you are following this issue closely, and if you ask me this question, I know that it is not from the air but rather from life. My services are well aware of this problem. It has also been addressed in the preparation of the Law of 18 June 2018 amending certain aspects of the Code of Nationality. You refer to the possibility of proving language skills by means of a certificate of level 2 of the European reference framework for the education or vocational training of 400 hours in Belgium. The procedures for obtaining Belgian nationality are set out in the Royal Decree of 2013. Article 1 of that Royal Decree sets out as alternatives to proof of language skills, inter alia, documents proving that an integration process, reception or integration course has been successfully followed or documents showing that the person concerned has continuously worked as an employee, registered or self-employed person in the main occupation during the last five years. These two modalities already serve as evidence of the requirements of social inclusion. It is therefore possible for people to meet language requirements by proving social inclusion in one of these two ways. In both cases, the Royal Decree does not refer to the level of knowledge A2 of the European reference framework, thus offering a more flexible way of meeting language requirements. In addition, the integration pathways, the reception routes and the integration course already include literacy courses that contribute to the language skills of the interested persons. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the organisation of routes is the exclusive competence of the Länder. If you have any further questions, I must of course refer you to the competent sub-State authorities. I apologise for this rather technical answer, but you will understand that the problem of illiteracy does not have to be insurmountable. Finally, we must bear in mind the intention of the legislator of the Law of 4 December 2012. The acquisition of nationality serves as the culmination of a successful integration process and no longer as a factor contributing to the integration of the interested party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u42	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I am sure that nationality was meant to be the crown of the integration process. I told you, we co-written the bill that was passed at the time. By referring to the European reference level A2, there has been a problem. I am glad that you say that it is now being applied in a more relaxed way through the Royal Decree. I know that five years of continuous work is one of the possibilities, but it may be that the royal decision is not clear enough, because it is actually the intention, as you say, that an integration course has been followed and that it has been succeeded. Of course, that's a minimum. It must be demonstrated that one knows the language and takes an integration course. One does not always have to be able to read and write. In fact, I am well aware of the fact that I myself used to teach illiterate people. I know that for some people who are illiterate, this is a process that can take years. It would be a pity if we excluded those target groups. In some people, it takes years before they can learn to read and write, sometimes they can never do it, but in the meantime they can participate perfectly in society, are integrated and speak the language and even the dialect of the region. It would be a shame if we did not allow them to become Belgian. If I understand correctly, it is not a problem for you and it can also be if one cannot read and write, because in the KB one refers not to the A2 level but to the integration course. I agree. We must ask people to make efforts to learn the language and reach a certain level, without referring to the A2 level. Hopefully this bottleneck will be cleared up on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the first step in the decision-making process to allocate the resources of the recovery plan has passed. This Friday, the federal government agreed on the projects to be funded in its share of the stimulus package. In particular, it is stated in the press that "in the context of digitalisation, 380 million will be allocated to the magnification of the digitisation of public services, in particular in the areas of justice and social security, and cybersecurity". We know that at this stage this is not yet the final version; things still need to be fine-tuned, because the projects returned represent, for the moment, more than the available envelope. Minister, can you, however, give us some clarifications already? What fact sheets have been returned to the field of justice? Which were they selected at this stage? How much of the digitalisation amounts would be reserved for justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u44	Minister, the federal government receives EUR 1.25 billion from the European Commission to finance the relaunch plan. Like my colleague, I understand that last week the federal government reached an agreement on the distribution of these funds. In De Tijd we could read that 300 million euro would be spent on the digitisation of public services, with a focus on Social Security and Justice. What part of the EUR 300 million is specifically allocated to the Justice Department? What conditions has Europe attached to what type of expenditure can the subsidies be used? Finally, will the funds be used exclusively for the digitisation of justice? What specific projects are you thinking of? Are additional or additional European funds being allocated to reduce the enormous delay in the execution of the sentence? Can any of that money go there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u45	Colleagues, the federal government does indeed have a budget of EUR 1.25 billion in European funds. Europe is asking us to present a plan on how we will invest these funds. It is mainly about greening and digitisation, and you will agree with me that there is still some work to be done at the Justice Department in terms of digitisation. That is why we have chosen three ambitious projects that fit in with the story. Firstly, there is a project of digitisation of the Belgian Justice Department, which includes several elements. I have included the ambitions in the policy statement, which we have already discussed in detail. I will summarize them in a few words. We will first invest in new equipment to provide a contemporary and modern workplace for people in charge of justice and involve them in the development of different tools. An important priority is the introduction of a comprehensive digital document management system, i.e. the digital file. We want to achieve this by renewing the existing Mach folder management system by giving it a new interface. In addition, we ensure external access to the digital file, via Justonweb, which can be accessed both internally and externally thanks to improved access management. The Justonweb Platform will eventually have to become the unique portal for citizens, businesses and judicial stakeholders for all their contacts with Justice. We are also trying to maximise the interconnection of existing data sources, so that a more data-driven justice can be achieved. The ultimate aim is to achieve a more effective and efficient justice system. The cybersecurity of Justice and the network infrastructure as a whole will also be significantly improved and modernised. Secondly, there is investment in a digital detention platform. Through that platform, we want to modernise detention management and enable prisoners to receive training from their cell, communicate with penitentiary officers, make orders, and communicate securely and under supervision with the outside world via videoconferencing. This will promote reintegration and limit the recurrence and thus have an effect on the execution of the sentence. In addition, with the extra budgets for Justice, we will also invest in detention homes. Thus, the two projects concerning the digitisation of justice represent an investment of EUR 100 million. Third, the project was chosen to adapt the functioning of NTSU/CTIF to the introduction of 5G and other modern applications such as the Internet of Things, in order to respond to technological developments. The NTSU is a federal police unit that has been responsible for the identification, observation and interception of private telecommunications since 2003. For Justice and Police, it is a priority to invest very specifically in systems to intercept telecommunications. The resources needed for interception are increasing exponentially and almost in proportion to the development of telecommunications resources. With the investments, our services will be able to better combat cybercrime and other organised crime in a world of ever-changing technology. EUR 22 million is earmarked for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. I had a problem with the translation and I didn't fully understand what you said. I will therefore take note of your reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. You have a lot of plans. We were already aware of part of it. You didn't mention an amount in all parts. I heard from you an amount of EUR 100 million and one of EUR 22 million. I may have missed an amount somewhere, but I would like to say a total of EUR 122 million for Justice of the total amount of EUR 300 million for the digitisation of public services. You're nodding. I'm curious. You mention some beautiful plans and things that are useful and necessary. I assume that we will see it in practice in the next budgetary control in the budgets allocated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u48	Madam President, I will send the answer I have just given to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u49	I have not been able to connect to the translation and I have therefore missed some of the elements of your answer. I didn't want to react without having the whole thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u50	Thank you, Mr Segers, for your pertinent question. When I heard about the problem in the middle of November last year, as you put it in your question, I could not believe my ears. It seems to be a problem that belongs earlier in the 19th or perhaps even the 20th century, but not in the 21st century, an era in which technology can be expected to solve problems around stamps. Indeed, there are still about six days delay in legalization. We are currently dealing with 350 to 450 legalizations per day. We've doubled our staff to do that. The legislator has chosen to have the legalizations centrally managed by the FPS Justice and no longer court by court. Until then, on the Dutch side, there was a continuation of the practice that the courts legalized the documents of the sworn translators. The College of Courts and Courts informed the FPS Justice that they would no longer legalize, following the example of the French-speaking courts that had not carried out legalizations since March 2020. These legalizations have since been carried out by the services of the national register. For this we have strengthened the staff with temporary extra staff. The employees are recruited and help to process the legalizations as quickly as possible. The more than 1,700 stamps are currently distributed. In order to comply with the health measures, this distribution is distributed across different delivery sites and...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We hope that all stamps will be delivered to the recipient by mid-February. The draft royal decree is still before the Council of State for advice. Afterwards, I'll get you a quick publication. After the royal decree has been published and the stamps have been distributed, the procedure will become much simpler. The translators can then legalize the translations intended for use in Belgium themselves. So they shouldn't go to court anymore, nor to the national register. I am strongly committed to digitisation, as far as I am concerned, including the digitisation of the legalization process. It will be there in the course of the legislature. Once the databases of sworn translators are available and consultable, it will no longer be necessary to work with those stamps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your commitment. I look forward to everything you will achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u52	Madam President, Minister, one of the intentions of the crossborder project was to tackle impunity in the case of foreign traffic offenders. An EU citizen who commits an offence on Belgian roads will automatically receive a report today. In the period 2019-2020, more than 77 million euros of immediate collections and friendly settlements were proposed to foreign offenders. Of this amount, 48 million euros, approximately 62%, were finally paid. However, since the day before yesterday, 1 February, minor speeding offences can also be sanctioned with gas fines issued by the cities and municipalities. These are minor infringements of up to 20 kilometres per hour and only in zone 30 and zone 50. Minister, what is the result of this change for the foreign offenders who committed such a minor speeding offence? Is there a possibility to automatically send the gas fines via the crossborder system to the foreign offender? How do you intend to combat the possible impunity of foreign drivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u53	Mr Raskin, first of all, traffic offenders must not escape the dance, even if they come from abroad. For this we have made special efforts in recent years with the creation of Crossborder at Justice. However, the choice for GAS 5 implies that the local administration does not use the Crossborder system and itself is responsible for the further handling of the infringement. I mean, among other things, the translation of the CVs and the follow-up of the payment. Each local government now has the choice to apply gas fines to minor speeding offences. The city council has to adopt police regulations for this. If a local administration does not opt for the administrative handling, the offences will continue to be dealt with under criminal law. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts and courts have expressed their concerns about the issue to the competent authorities for the adoption of the Decree. As it concerns the possible depenalisation of traffic offences, there is no insight from the Justice Department into how the GAS system will operate in relation to foreign traffic offenders. Secondly, the use of the crossborder system for these offences is certainly not excluded from a purely administrative and logistical point of view. Until now, however, this has not been officially requested. However, the use of the crossborder system requires some adjustments and standardisation of existing work processes. In view of the importance of an effective approach by repeaters, including foreigners, and the importance of the 67th obligation, the actors of justice, with the roll-out of the driving licence with points in mind, remain in favour of an approach through the current criminal crossborder process. Finally, combating impunity is an essential part of the many actions to improve road safety. Crossborder has made a strong commitment to sending out information letters and reminders in 23 European languages, which has a clear impact, as the offender understands the letter better and can therefore pay the fine correctly and in good time. For foreign offenders we also have a contact centre, which handles calls in French, Dutch, German and English. In addition, the project for the exchange of European certificates, in which the unpaid traffic fines of its own residents are carried out in another European country, is being exchanged and followed up further in the country where the offender resides. In any case, we will continue to invest from the Justice Department in tackling foreign offenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that impunity leads to a great deal of displeasure for the ordinary man in the street, who often behaves responsibly and who, once he has gone out of his way literally or figuratively, also pays the fine. That displeasure is not only about the hard learners, but also about foreigners who escape a fine simply because they are foreigners. In this sense, the crossborder project is indeed a good thing, because in a small year some EUR 48 million has already been collected from foreign drivers. Since only 62% was collected, there is still some margin; it is a young project, which we must give time and every opportunity. We agree on that. I also understand from your reply that you have no idea today how GAS fines will work with regard to foreign drivers. You have some ambition in this regard. You also outline some of the thresholds that need to be removed. I hope there will be work on that. The coalition agreement states, rightly, that more road safety is possible but possible if the chance of getting caught goes up. If we want to increase public support for this, we must, of course, ensure that everyone has a better chance of being caught, including foreign drivers. Since you are talking about it yourself, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss the driving licence with points as well. In the previous legislatures, together with colleagues from your party, we have worked hard on this cart, but we have never been able to introduce the driving licence with points. Minister Gilkinet remained cautious in his policy statement. I hope that we will have the driving licence with points in the Mobility Committee sooner than later. I should therefore like to ask you to prepare your colleagues from the MR..........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u55	Minister, the year 2020 has seen new political negotiations on the bill to facilitate access to abortion in Belgium. Some parties block a change that would allow a more respectful, less paternalistic reception of pregnant women wanting access to the basic right to freely and sovereignly dispose of their bodies. In the Committee on Justice, I asked to include in the agenda the bill amending various legislative provisions with a view to relaxing the conditions for the voluntary termination of pregnancy (55-0158/015) on which the Council of State delivered a fourth opinion on 24 November 2020. It was said that work was under way in this Parliament, between the parties of the majority, but without any further clarification as to the content of this work. It is essential that a public discussion be held on the future of this bill. Transparency is necessary and legitimate. The PS group, the main author of the bill, referred to a working group. Has this working group been set up? How long? If so, can you indicate the names of those who make up it? The government agreement mentions the establishment of a multidisciplinary scientific committee. Is it still up to date? If so, how will these experts be appointed? On the basis of what criteria? What is the deadline? The general idea of the majority is to do a study on this bill. What would be the parameters? How would these parameters differ from the reports of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Pregnancy Discontinuation, established since 13 August 1990?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u56	Dear colleague, you are asking me an important ethical question, in other words, relevant. However, Mr Boukili, if you have read the government agreement, you know that the answer is not on the government side but on the Parliament side. On this ethical issue, it is not appropriate for the government to give direction to Parliament. The working group, the scientific committee, the details of the study, etc., all these issues must be dealt with by you, by Parliament, which is the first power in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u57	Minister, this is all I'm asking! I would like to work on the matter, and I have asked that it be placed on the agenda so that Parliament can take on its responsibilities. I was told that there was a discussion work in the majority. When we question the government on this issue, it refers us back to Parliament, and when I ask Parliament to put the item on the agenda so that it can deal with the issue, as you recommend, I am told that discussions are taking place in the majority. What, then, must we do to ensure that these discussions reach Parliament? If commissions are to be set up, what are the criteria for this? For the moment, there is an omerta on this file, and we do not know anything about what is happening and we do not get a clear answer. If it is not up to the government or the Members of Parliament to answer me, who should I address in order for this to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the TB prevention strategy (TBC) has been implemented in prisons following the finding that Koch's bacillus has been transferred to prison. It is therefore important to ensure that it is limited by maintaining daily vigilance with regard to tuberculosis. One of the most important preventive measures is the annual screening of staff. It is important that it takes place in accordance with the defined protocols and the rules. We wonder about the impact of covid-19 on the organisation of the TBC screen for prison officers. Minister, in 2020, did this happen for all staff and in all correctional facilities? If not, which institutions have not benefited from it or have only partially benefited from it? For what reasons? What is the timetable for the year 2021? Can you provide us with a copy and a copy of the mandatory protocol to be followed during the TBC screen? Is there a version adapted to the covid-19 situation? What are the additional changes and precautionary measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the risk analysis carried out by the employer, and after consulting the prevention department, in this case the occupational doctor advised in the prevention of Empreva, it was decided that prison staff would be subjected to a tuberculosis test twice a year. In concrete terms, the staff department of each institution warns all staff of the passage of the services concerned, namely VRGT in Flanders or the Fonds des affections respirables (FARES) in Wallonia, according to the language regime concerned, sufficiently in advance so that they can organize themselves to be present. Mr Boukili, according to the information given to me, the screening is done twice. First, an injection is given. Then there is a check-up to verify that there is no reaction. In the first wave of the pandemic, the summonses were put on hold, but they have been resumed in the meantime, which will allow at least one screening per year to be maintained. Finally, there is a working group in Empreva, which constantly follows this issue, in consultation with experts in the field, and makes adjustments, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I asked you some specific questions about the screening schedule for 2021. In particular, I would like to know how this screening is organised. Were all institutions screened in 2020? Has there been a change due to the pandemic? What protocol has been proposed to implement this screening? All these questions remained unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u61	Mr Boukili, I do note that my answers are not sufficiently precise. I will therefore ask my services to provide you with the requested clarifications in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u62	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u63	Minister, section 74 of the Law on Various Temporary and Structural Provisions for Justice in the Fight against the Spread of Covid-19 Coronavirus allowed for a temporary restriction of certain seizures against individuals. This temporary restriction ended on 31 January 2021, as provided for in article 75 of the same Act. We had already expressed our reluctance to suspend such a brief period of time and had introduced an amendment to extend this restriction until 31 March 2021 inclusive, subject to a reassessment according to the duration of the pandemic. We did not understand why the moratorium on seizures should expire so quickly. The health crisis persists and the restrictions to endow are foreseen until the end of December 2021. It is therefore clear that citizens will perceive the effects of the crisis, particularly in economic terms, well beyond 31 January 2021. We are now in early February and the figures show that our predictions were valid. Minister, has the government extended the moratorium on seizures? If so, to what date? If not, on what grounds? Are you already planning to take further measures to ensure family survival and to limit seizures and evictions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u64	My colleague, the measure has not been extended and will not be. Indeed, the reactivation of such a moratorium was only planned for a very limited period, as I announced in Parliament during the debates in December, for several reasons. First, the moratorium on widespread seizures for the benefit of individuals adopted by Belgium, although providing certain assistance to individuals who are in a difficult situation due to the health crisis, poses a number of problems with respect to respect for certain fundamental rights, such as the creditor's right to enforce the judgment in his favour. This right derives from article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. I also refer to the famous Hornsby decision against Greece. Secondly, the prolonged moratorium does not seem to be a sensible solution in terms of economic health, both for the debtor whose debts continue to accumulate and to generate interest on arrears, but also for creditors who are often independent small and medium-sized enterprises, or even individuals themselves, for whom the impossibility of obtaining payment may result in subsistence problems. These are the reasons why the moratorium first introduced by the Law of 20 May and reactivated by the Law of 20 December was intended only to be a strictly temporary and short-term measure. The extension of this measure could lead to adverse effects, particularly in legal terms. With regard to your second question, the absence of an extension of this measure will be alleviated by a provision which enshrines a 20% increase in the threshold of non-entry referred to in article 1409 of the Judicial Code. This measure, which was initiated before the entry into force of article 74 of the Act of 20 December 2020, which was already applicable to transfers of wages and seizures of wages in the form of conservatory seizures, will continue to apply this time to any procedure for the transfer of wages or seizure of wages, including those previously included in proceedings temporarily prohibited or suspended by the moratorium. Thus, the elusive income margin will be extended, until March 31, 2021, with the possibility for the King to extend this period further to take into account the measures that will be taken to stem the health crisis related to the covid-19. In the alternative, judicial officers, while generally called upon to proceed with the enforcement of judgments, are also ministerial officers charged with protecting the vital interests of the Nation and exercising their ministry in a responsible manner. As such, they take into account the unprecedented crisis we find ourselves in in the performance of their duties. Internal guidelines are generally put in place by judicial officers to counter the consequences of the end of the moratorium. These include the increased use of mediation and the flexible clearance plan, the use of final seizure and a specific approach to the most affected sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u65	Minister, it goes without saying that this answer is not satisfactory. Indeed, I do not tell you that the social catastrophe that could break out because of the non-extension of this measure could be severe for our society. I do not see why any action taken to respond to an unprecedented health crisis in our country would not be prolonged, when the health crisis is not over and the restrictions imposed by the government on the population are still in force. This means that a certain way of life is imposed in order to adapt to the health crisis, but that measures that compensate for the restrictions imposed by the government on small businesses, self-employed people and individuals are not prolonged! You mention the rights of creditors, but we all know that the biggest creditors are not small businesses, but the big banks and large groups that have the kidneys strong enough to assume. It is no coincidence that the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB) has asked for an end to this moratorium and whether the Union of Middle Classes has requested an extension. There is a contradiction here between large groups and small ones. At one point, this decision-making is a choice in favour of a strong lobby that is that of the FEB, to the detriment of our small independents and small businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u66	The problem arose a few years ago, after modernising central criminal law in 2012. The gradual unification of the nomenclature for criminal offences for the MACH system differs in terms of the content and structure of the nomenclature used for the criminal record since 1993. This means that the MACH fact codes are not transmitted to the statistical database during the annual extraction of the criminal record by the data conversion program, which is still functioning according to the old data structure. Since the convictions issued by the police courts represent more than 80% of all final annual convictions, the validity of the statistics is not ensured by the fact that the facts falling within the jurisdiction of the police court and thus registered in MACH are not taken into account. This has resulted in the complete publication of the statistics being discontinued. Moreover, reforms of the Belgian judicial landscape and other criminal reforms in recent years have made the conversion programme obsolete. The sentencing statistics that are not subject to the inherent deficiency of the current databases were published by the FPS Justice in figures2015-2019. Projects have been launched to develop a new data warehouse and dynamic reports that are directly accessible on the Internet. However, they have not yet been finalised. The modernisation of this business intelligence infrastructure would require a development procedure of one to two years after approval. Integration of the MACH nomenclature and the nomenclature of the criminal record is a long-term project which must be carried out separately and in parallel by using a specific legal expertise. Priority is currently being given to the development of the crossborder project, a digital platform of Justice, which is a powerful tool for a modern justice system. This data is collected in a dashboard. In the wake of traffic fines and corona fines, we will now also apply this system to other forms of crime. Our focus is on digitisation, but in this area we need to clean up quite a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u67	There is a lot of work to be done. The problem indeed dates back a while ago. Hopefully we will make rapid progress in this regard. Without statistics and figures, it is of course also very difficult to develop policies, because measuring is knowing. This has been said countless times in this committee. I hope for rapid statistics and rapid improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u68	Mr Minister, Sciensano figures show that 40% of travellers returning from a red zone will not be tested. However, that is mandatory. You announced two weeks ago that those who returned from a red zone and were not tested should expect a friendly settlement of EUR 250. You then stated: "We will receive automatic lists and on that basis we will issue fines." I was worried about that, and my fear that this announcement is not so easy to achieve in practice proved to be justified. In three weeks' time, some 30,000 people have not been tested. Now it also turns out that no relevant body knows of effective fines. Last week, I asked you a question about this and you replied that the procedure still needed to be streamlined in consultation with the Interior and the Länder. In the meantime, the relevance may be a little less, because we should not be doing non-essential travel anymore. However, you also saw yesterday that people could drive on at the border after they paid the fine. As mayor, there's no way I can see who should be tested. I do get lists of those who have to be quarantined, but it does not say whether it is a traveller or whether the person in question had a high risk contact, or whether he or she has already been tested positively. According to privacy law, that is not allowed either, but I can't control who should have been tested, and then possibly pass it on to the police. Mr Minister, has the procedure been streamlined and is it going well? What does she mean? When will compliance with the test obligation be effectively maintained? Will the persons who have returned while your procedure has not yet been streamlined, so in recent weeks, but the regulations were clear, still be able to get a fine on the bus?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u69	Colleague, you did indeed question me about this last week. So I do not need to repeat what I said at the time, namely that we are looking at inter-federally, in consultation with the competent administrations and services, how we can get the data showing that a person who had to be tested was not subject to a test, from the regional testing and tracing centres to the police and the parquets. There were several meetings last week. Yesterday there was another one at 10:00 in the morning. We are not sitting still and we are making progress. This does not mean that enforcement is currently impossible. Compliance with the test obligation can already be enforced by municipal officials. The municipal official can always call the police to draw up a report. What we now want to make possible are more targeted checks by improving the exchange of data in accordance with the legal frameworks. Enforcement by police and prosecutors is a second line, following awareness raising and support on the first line. Local authorities and officials primarily focus on raising awareness about quarantine and testing and supporting their citizens, for example in the field of psychosocial well-being or for practical implementation. Contact tracers, health inspectors, welfare workers and municipal officials can make more targeted and/or sample contact and, where necessary, the police can be involved efficiently. Finally, every citizen is expected to contribute to the fight against the spread of the virus. This also applies, in particular, to the authorities in our country. We are not hiding behind problems of competence, we are looking together for solutions through soft enforcement, which seems to favour the Communities, but also through hard enforcement where it has to be done. I hope to be able to take effective further steps in the coming days and weeks; in any case, it is a very difficult process, in which many governments are involved. I'm sure it'll work if we work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It also appears that enforcement is not evident. The District Attorney has done everything he can. At Flemish level, a decree was drafted with the criminalisation. Now, however, it is a matter of getting the data where they are needed. You tell me that there can be enforced through municipal officials. I am tired of the fact that, throughout the crisis, the local government must try to clean up the rubble in many ways. This is also the case here, but it is not possible here, because local authorities do not get this privacy sensitive information. They cannot therefore check compliance with the test requirement. As I said earlier, there are two systems. On the one hand, there is the channel of tracing for those who have been tested. On the other hand, we get quarantine lists through a control tower, which are privacy sensitive and therefore not allowed to be shared with everyone. Those lists do not say who is traveler, but who should be quarantined, and that goes from who had high risk contact to who was tested positive to who was travelling. There is no mention of who traveler is. So I do not know whether a particular person is a traveler for whom I have to check whether he or she has already been tested. I don't know, and I can't. We, the local authorities, can enforce, verify, check and engage in the dialogue. However, we cannot request or impose tests on the person in question. We do not know and cannot enforce it. So, Minister, that is a very difficult exercise. I therefore hope that you will get out and find a system with which you can. If all kinds of lists can be placed side by side and puzzled, it can be done. However, that is not an obvious task. In this context, it is very easy to proclaim that there will be fines and that testing and quarantine are mandatory. I understand that this is intended to be dissuasive and in this way somewhat sensitising. However, these are easy statements, which are more difficult to achieve on the ground. So you have to be afraid of that. In this way, you sell the bear's skin before he has been shot, which is a very painful thing in this case, especially because a lot of local authorities, such as municipal officials, police and justice, take everything out of the closet, to guide everything in a good way. They are now in a difficult position, because it is not possible to do so in practice today. That's very unfortunate. However, I agree with the point that everyone must take responsibility and we must convince people to do what is right and is best for everyone's health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u71	Madam President, Minister, COIV has adapted all kinds of issues and I have spent years asking questions about them. The way things were handled in COIV, such as diamonds, was not always kosher, although in this context it might be bad use of words. It didn't always work out the way people expect it to. I've heard stories of seizures where all the diamonds were placed in the same bin or drawer, mixed together, so they couldn't be traced what was now theirs. For that reason my attention was drawn to a recent message, which intrigued me particularly. In 2004, the court invaded the Antwerp diamond company Lion's Diamond, where diamonds were seized with a value, then estimated by an expert, of 1.7 million dollars. The procedure took a long time, namely eight years. The company was acquitted in 2012 and in 2013 the diamonds were returned to the company. In return, the bag of diamonds was re-estimated by an expert and the value was estimated at about 200,000 euros. Of course, that's a big difference. The expert stated that it was not the same diamonds as the diamonds seized in 2004. That made me ring the bell of stories I'd heard before. In the meantime, a police detective who signed the seal bag was convicted of money laundering. However, the criminal investigation was stopped in 2018 without prosecution. However, there is still a civil claim against the Belgian State to recover the value difference of about 1.5 million. In view of the conflicting statements and the continuing doubt as to whether the expert made a mistake or whether anything had happened to those stones, the court of first instance decided that the case was admissible but unfounded. There has been an appeal against this and this appeal procedure is still ongoing. The court will have to do its job and we will therefore have to wait for the verdict. Mr Minister, I am not asking my questions about the content of the matter, because I know that there is not much you can say about the content. When is the judgment of the Antwerp Court of Appeal expected on that case? My main question is whether the procedures at the COIV are sufficiently conclusive to rule out such abuses and whether they are sufficiently conclusive so that any abuse can be traced back to the offender. It is essential that certain procedures are followed in the seizure process. I hope what I heard back then is Indian stories. Finally, in the last five years, has the Belgian State been condemned for abuses and/or negligence in the COIV?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u72	Madam President, Mrs de Wit, there are procedures under way, so I will be brief and careful in my answers. The case in question will be dealt with at the meeting of the Court of Appeal in Antwerp on 14 June this year. For obvious safety reasons, it is not appropriate to disclose in detail the safety procedure followed for the deposit of valuable items in the COIV vaults. We are not aware of any other cases where the responsibility of COIV was challenged for fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u73	Madam President, Minister, that was very short. I didn't expect you to say anything about the procedure. I understand that, and I am quite right to do so. You say that you cannot make the security procedure public in detail. Even I understand that. I hope, however, that there will be a proper safety procedure and that there will be a proper preservation and inventory of what is being taken up with COIV. That's where everything begins. The most important thing is that such a procedure exists. Then you should not explain my own in detail either. I'm glad you said there are no other cases known. I think that's very good news. We'll see what the court of appeal says in this case. I can only advise you to take a look at it for sure. I know that work has already been done, but there may still be improvements, there are concerns and we need to intervene to prevent such matters from happening even further. I can continue to be cautious. That must be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u74	Mrs Rohonyi, following the decision not to extend the moratorium on bankruptcies, Minister Clarinval and I have taken initiatives. As you point out, the current health crisis will lead to a significant increase in the number of bankruptcies and, consequently, an increase in the workload of corporate courts. That said, the moratorium has always been intended to serve as a temporary measure that would protect our businesses from bankruptcies from an artificial situation. However, in the interests of legal certainty, preference is given to structural measures which can provide our businesses with legal protection and the necessary flexibility. That is why the bill was dealt with this morning in the Committee on the Economy, and it will be dealt with again next Friday. For this reason, the recovery procedure includes measures which will have an impact on the workload of the business courts, with the aim of keeping it as low as possible. More specifically, the provision provides for an extension to 18 months of the investigation procedure, both for the rapporteur judge and for firms in difficulty, in order to grant them a sufficient respite. Furthermore, with regard to the hearing of the Judge Delegate or the Judge Commissioner, the proposal also provides for a written procedure. This solution is more efficient and less labour-intensive. The proposed measures were reviewed by the Conference of Presidents of the Business Courts and were welcomed. For your second question, contacts have been made with the various stakeholders, the Regions, but no decision has yet been taken. In fact, the Regions are not competent in this area, so such agreements are still not foreseen. Secondly, for reasons of legal certainty, no retroactive measures were taken. However, the objective is, of course, that the recovery procedure and these measures relating to the workload of the business courts will enter into force as soon as possible. In other words, the period between the end of the moratorium and its entry into force must be as short as possible. As I have already indicated, we have contacted ONSS and the tax administration to ask them to maintain their attitude. They confirmed that they would do so for the present period. As for the percentage of PRJ actually leading to bankruptcy, the very short response period for a parliamentary oral question does not allow for the collection and delivery of information, but if you ask me this question in writing, I will try to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers once again very comprehensive. I am pleased to hear that measures have been taken to support the courts in the face of the workload that will result from the end of this moratorium on bankruptcies. With regard to the reform of the judicial reorganization procedure, it was positive and welcomed by professionals in the field, as the current procedure was very comprehensive and little known to them. It is also positive to grant more discretion to judges as to how a company should be dissolved. But I continue to ask myself the question of what is proposed to the self-employed and the employees, between today (the end of the moratorium on bankruptcy) and the adoption of this reform of the judicial reorganization procedure. I hear there would be a "tact" moratorium with ONSS and the tax authorities. But what about other creditors who can continue to cite bankrupt companies? From the moment a debtor is at the end of payment, he is legally obliged to be in a position of bankruptcy. No concrete solution is proposed to them. You are talking about structural measures, measures to ensure legal certainty. Today, for creditors other than ONSS and the tax authorities, this is not the case. This solution is not simply one and it does not meet what the whole field, auditioned no later than last week in the Committee on the Economy (UCM, Comeos, etc.) had asked. These actors have not been heard and I find it regrettable to ignore what they have told us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u76	Madam President, I have been able to reach Mr Dillen. She had already asked the committee for its interpretation No. 55000091I was called away as a matter of urgency. Thank you for waiting. Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u77	The defendant of the facts cited in the question was placed under arrest warrant by an investigation magistrate on 2 February 2021 for attempted murder and beatings and injuries to a vulnerable person. The investigation is ongoing. As regards the state of play, the 2006 COL 4 remains the reference document for the Public Prosecutor in the fight against the problem of partner violence. However, this COL has recently been recalled to the Public Prosecutor's Office and, in the framework of the Federal Action Plan against Intra-Family Violence during the Corona Crisis, it has been reaffirmed that cases of intra-Family Violence or Partner Violence should be treated as a priority by the Public Prosecutor. As regards risk screening, there is first the COL 15 of 2020 which entered into force on 1 January 2021. It is foreseen that this COL will be evaluated one year after its entry into force. This general roll-out has indeed started by integrating this risk screening tool into ISLP, the IT system used by the police. In addition, I would like to clarify once again that we have launched a digitalisation project for sexual and intra-family violence that will allow a risk assessment. The first important point is the digitalisation of the file. By keeping all documents in a central place and providing access to different actors, we can ensure that decisions are made on the basis of all information and the risk to society can be better assessed in this way. As stated, working groups were set up with all relevant actors in the Justice Department in order to achieve such a risk assessment tool for sexual and intra-family violence in the short term. We hope to be able to launch targeted pilot projects by summer 2021. Over time this can be extended to other crimes. In fact, the COL 15/2020 entered into force on 1 January 2021. Nevertheless, in the months leading up to its entry into force, efforts were made to raise awareness of all the partners involved. The period prior to entry into force has been used to train staff in the use of the instrument, in particular through videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In my question I also referred to the number of partners to whom the question was asked how they carried out a risk assessment and what cases they followed of people who came and were the victims of violence by partners or ex-partners. That was a hallucinant high figure that people didn't even know existed. You say you've sensitized those partners. That is a step in the right direction. We need new figures on this, but that might be something for a written question. Are all partners aware of this now? You say that this will be evaluated one year after the entry into force. You also say that partner violence is already a priority for the public prosecutors. In reality, I see in many victims that this is dragging on for years and that this is not a priority at all. You must urgently ask for the figures and make sure that they are given real priority. In reality, that is not the case. Those people stay in the cold. The longer the facts have been, the more the reasoning is made that it has not happened for a long time, that one has to agree with one another and that one will see how things are going. Then it may happen that there is something very bad in the newspaper about one of these cases, which everyone then hates. These matters must be dealt with very shortly after the event, which is still not the case at the moment. You say that you will launch a pilot project in the summer and that digitisation will also allow a risk assessment. Well, the risk assessment exists, but right now it's just not being performed properly. There is an urgent need to do this. There is an urgent need to work together on this subject, with the necessary figures available. It is not a good idea now to look and evaluate after a year, given the corona. Then the calf already drowned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u79	Madam President, Minister, we have already had several reports from the State Security which indicated to us the tension and concern regarding the activities of the groups and movements of the far right. We were able to see in the edition of the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws on Tuesday, February 2, the revelation that the Schild & Vrienden group organizes, for its members, armed training camps abroad, especially on European territory. It appears from the information that this movement not only organizes these trainings, but that it is forming a militia and training its members in the handling of weapons and the learning of war techniques. I must confess that this information is very worrying and raises questions about the danger that the extreme right still represents to our rule of law and democracy in Belgium. It cannot be accepted or tolerated to see the development of armed militias in our territory. Strong measures must be taken as a matter of urgency. They must have the end and purpose, no more or less, than to dissolve not only these militias, but also this movement that is dangerous for our democracy. We cannot allow such acts to go unpunished on our soil. Did your intelligence services or the Allied intelligence services inform you of these actions? Are the members of this armed militia being followed by the same intelligence services? Are there any plans to prosecute these movements and individuals? What legal tools do you intend to mobilise to ensure the protection of our rule of law and democracy against these far-right armed militias?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u80	Madam President, my colleague, you are asking four questions. I'll give you four answers. Firstly, the OCAM and the State Security have been warning for some time against the spread of right-wing extremism in our country, and the services point out: the increasing number of incidents and attacks abroad or not of right-wing extremism; the increased activity of right-wing extremists on the Internet, also in our country, which may be an indication of the danger that may emanate from far-right narratives; an increase in judicial interventions and follow-up in the context of potential threats from right-wing extremists in our country; an increased willingness to act by various movements with links to the extremist scene. These are not just observations of services. Our services are working on it. The services work together, exchange information, make early detection and agree on the right approach within the famous local task forces, the full security cells at local level, and the Working Group on Right-wing Extremism chaired by OCAM. If criminal offences are established, the justice system takes action. The tool that makes this collaboration possible is the common database, known as the "list of terrorists and extremists". Please be aware that this database currently contains some 50 people from the far right. You are aware that I cannot comment on the article published yesterday in Het Laatste Nieuws, in which individual cases were explained. Therefore, I cannot and will not comment on individual cases and/or ongoing investigations. I won't take any chances, you understand. In answer to your second question, I can only confirm that several people from the far right who participate in paramilitary formations are being monitored as part of the cooperation within the Radicalism Plan. The State Security cooperates with foreign partner services on the threat posed by the far right in general and by this aspect in particular, if necessary. Participation in paramilitary training is usually the responsibility of a few individuals and not of groups. Some of the training centres frequented by far-right individuals are of a more commercial nature, while others are of far-right inspiration. Paramilitary training is not necessarily illegal. Some foreign training centres frequented by Belgian right-wing activists do not even carry the seal of extremism and offer their services to good faith organisations such as surveillance companies or private detectives. I now turn to your third question. As I said, I am not commenting on the ongoing investigations, including those in which the waiver of parliamentary immunity of a member of the federal Parliament has been requested. Fourthly, unlike countries such as Germany or France, Belgium has neither the tradition nor the legislation to ban groups. Our legislator believes that this is too much restriction on the constitutional right to freedom of association and assembly. This does not mean that we are not prosecuting the members of these groups and that we are not bringing them to justice. Consider, for example, the Sharia4Belgium trial, in which more than 30 members were prosecuted and sentenced, as well as the lawsuits against Bloed, Bodem, Eer en Trouw in 2006, in which members of these groups were prosecuted and convicted for terrorist crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers and I fully understand that as Minister of Justice you cannot speak of an ongoing follow-up by the State Security Service, or of the ongoing instructions. It would reveal elements that are under the seal of secrecy. Nevertheless, like what you have mentioned for Sharia4Belgium and others, violent extremism, whatever it may be, whether inspired by extreme right-wing theses or by a hijacked philosophical or religious ideology, must be fought in our territory. I went to search for the explanatory memorandum of the 1934 law prohibiting private militias. At the time, the legislators who preceded us said: "These displays of uniforms tend to be a demonstration of strength. In it is included the threat of the use of violence on the day when the force will be sufficient." This sentence enlightens this legislation that was taken in 1934, at the edge of the rise of Nazism. We cannot be insensitive to this extreme right-wing bottom blade that rises in Europe, the United States, Latin America, or ignore it. It tends to become hegemonic. When I see that today there are paramilitary training camps on European territory, I am very concerned. I know your determination to fight these extreme right-wing groups and I know your caution, within the framework of the rule of law, in not being able to comment or assert that there are legal proceedings. I believe that it is necessary to be unambiguous about those people who have nothing but to do with our democratic system and ultimately have only the ambition to be able to overthrow it in the hope of the advent of another society, where social cohesion, which is so dear to us, cannot be tolerated. I urge you to put everything in place with your services to ensure that we defend ourselves against this evil, which is as dangerous or even more dangerous because it is insidious as violent and radical Islam.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic363x.u82	Mr. Secretary of State, interplay No. Mrs Dillen's 55000091I will be postponed until next week, because she could not be present because of medical conditions.
