ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u2	Minister Van der Straeten has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u3	Madam President, thank you for your questions. So this is a continuation of the debate that we started more than 24 hours ago. A number of other elements have been added to the thematic debate, which I would like to go into further. It will probably not be the last time that we will be discussing this issue, because before the end of the year we will come to Parliament with a number of draft laws dealing with the same issues. Before going into the content of the energy standard, the social tariff and a number of other punctual questions that were raised in the debate, I would like to make an introductory remark. I do not accept some of the assumptions that have emerged in the debate. It's more specifically about three premises. Firstly, it was said here that I only do something for a certain group, 20%, and nothing for the rest. We have repeatedly said here yesterday that it is the government's choice to pursue policy, is to make choices to act in a targeted way. This is about the people who enjoy the BIM status and are entitled to the increased allowance. On the other hand, we are taking structural action for everyone, through a thorough reform of the invoice. Secondly, there is often talk of the middle class here. Now, the budget contains structural measures specifically for the middle class. One cannot tackle everything only through the energy bill. It has just been said rather bathingly here that it is about the choice between gas or nuclear power stations. That was a remark from you, Mr Wollants. I believe that yesterday your group leader reiterated very clearly that, in your hypothesis, in which you clearly opt for the extension of 2 gigawatts of nuclear energy, gas capacity is still needed. That was also the reason why we made the CRM resolution together more than a year ago. Thirdly, Mr Francken has said that he is looking at matters with political glasses. Then it's lose-lose. My glasses, Mr Francken, are the glasses of security of supply, of affordability and sustainability. That's a triple win. That's how I stand in my policy. I'm here to conduct policy. I am here to implement the coalition agreement and to work out solutions. We are facing a major energy transition, towards an energy system based on renewable energy. I read today that the first permit was issued for a green hydrogen plant in the Benelux. Two weeks ago, ArcelorMittal announced the largest climate investment in our country. The energy transition is underway. It is important to speed up a number of things in this regard. This requires a clear framework, a legally secure framework, which provides long-term security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u4	Chairperson: Valerie Van Peel, Chair
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u5	Madam Minister, I would have expected you to respond to my words on the political and strategic aspect, as I myself looked at it and looked at it. For the in-depth analyses we fortunately have Bert Wollants in our group. I do not dispute that sustainability is important. On the contrary, it is absolutely necessary. Our slogan in Flemish Brabant was "Flemish and green." In Lubbeek, where I am mayor, sustainability is very important. I receive Zuhal Demir every week, if I have to, and so do you, although we don't have that many powers in your area. That is not the point, however. The way it is played now and the fact that your own ecological movement came to your party secretariat full of counter-gas posters, is difficult to explain. You are, of course, doing your best and I wish you every success in doing so, because that is mainly your problem and not mine. I have had the same experience at the Volksunie, at the end, when the villain who sits in front of me on the left with the Flemish People's Movement came to occupy the barricades, with the slogan "done with giving and admitting." I have drawn a parallel with your party, because your own supporters no longer follow you and complain to your secretariat to make it clear that CO2 emissions from the gas plants are no longer possible and that the climate is a priority and not the exit from the nuclear sector. That's an analysis I'm doing. I'll stick with that. I'm sure you have a different analysis, but we'll finally see where you land.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u6	Mr Francken, energy is the lifeblood of our economy. Every industrial revolution there has been has always been with energy as a catalyst: fire, coal, oil and today's electrification. Looking at energy policy or the energy debate simply through political glasses is leaving the economy, the people and the companies that are facing high energy prices in the cold today. That's not how I stand in policy. That's not how this government stands in policy. For us it is a triple win, to say it with the words of Ursula von der Leyen. What is good for the climate is good for the economy and good for everyone. To provide that framework, I had stopped there to our society, to our families and to our companies, we have developed the energy standard. There are a lot of questions about that. That is quite right, and I will take the time to go into it thoroughly. Two of the three speakers asked for clarification. How does the system work? What amounts are we talking about? How's the system set up? How will it be further developed? Where do the amounts come from? Today we can propose a structural measure because we started it on time. After my team studied there, we sat together for the first time to discuss the approach. That was with the picture of a set table with a lasagna, the lasagna of our energy bill. When I talk today about the federal share on the energy bill, I want to say very clearly what I am talking about. I refer to the federal contribution to the electricity bill and to the gas bill and to the public service obligations, the surcharges on the Elia tariffs. Today, that offshore wind, the strategic reserve and the CRM, are registered in the law and implemented from 2025. We're talking about those components. If one looks at it, on the invoice or in the description in the law, then it is a lasagna. The policy in recent years has made the choice to set these things off in the energy bill. That is why we all say, from left to right, that the energy bill has become a second tax bill. There are posts on them and they increase them, without anyone noticing. Those increases will deviously end up on your invoice. In this hemisphere we have the shared view that that is not the way we want to work in the future. That was a shared vision when we adopted the CRM resolution. That was the vision of the Vivalid government when it made its coalition agreement. That is what we have worked out over the past six months. That is also what we will be putting to the vote in the coming months, and that is what will be implemented from 1 January 2022. That's our energy standard. What happens to the energy standard? In the first place, this is the excise reform that has been widely discussed here in the last 24 hours. The whole federal share, that whole lasagna on the invoice, we put together and we reform it into one excise duty. This concerns the federal contribution and the public service obligations. In the coalition agreement and in our CRM resolution, we also stated that the reference for this is 2021 and that we do not want to increase the federal share on the invoice compared to 2021. That is why we have aligned the rates of excise duty at the level of 2021. That's the first thing we've done. We have worked on the principle of invoice neutrality. That was also what was actually in the CRM resolution. At the time, there was still degressivity, but because we now work with an excise duty that will no longer be necessary. Invoice neutrality means that those who contribute today should not be worse or better off, which is why we make the comparison with 2021 each time. The energy standard is the assessment of the purchasing power of households, on the one hand, and the competitiveness of companies, on the other. We have the tools for this in our excise legislation. We have the tools for that. It already exists in excise legislation today. It concerns in particular the exemptions. For each of the existing exemptions, it has been assessed whether it is necessary to maintain them on the basis of the principle of invoice neutrality. If we retain the exemptions, will a particular group, a family or a consumer with a particular consumption pay more or less? The second question we have asked is whether there is a competitive disadvantage. If we retain or do not retain the exemption, will competitiveness be at a disadvantage? Mr Warmoes referred to the FORBEG study to say that there is actually no problem. I refer you to graphs 92 and 93, Mr Warmous. In that you will see that there are indeed industries in this country that have a competitive disadvantage. Then we will indeed apply exemptions. Families entitled to the social rate are already receiving an exemption. There is already a small excise duty on the invoice. But also a number of companies get them to safeguard their competitiveness. A number of Members have asked for an insight into these figures. For the coming year, 2022, that means 156 million euros, as you can see in the tables. How's that money built up? On the one hand, a number of costs are neutralized, because it is about 2021, as I have just said. Mr Wollants has already beaten me several times with the reports of the CREG which show that there are price fluctuations and increases for certain components. But we don't want that, that's the energy standard: a rule button on the invoice. The regulator shall be at the level 2021. So we are neutralizing the cost of the federal contribution for the customers with a social tariff for electricity. That's about 21 million euros. We are also neutralising the costs of offshore contributions to the electricity bill. That's about 30 million euros. We are also neutralizing the cost of the federal contribution to the gas bill. Then it's 52 million euros. This amount has to do with the rising costs of rising energy prices. Yesterday it was said that rising energy prices have an impact on the rising federal contribution. We accept these costs and no longer transfer them to the energy bill. Then we apply a number of exemptions to electricity and gas bills, both for families and for companies. So we're looking at it as a whole. There is a total of EUR 53 million, divided equally between families and businesses: EUR 26 million for one group, EUR 27 million for the other. So we are the only entity in this country that has an energy standard, which improves the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of companies. Questions have also been asked about the figures for families. In these 30 euros, several elements come together: neutralizing the costs of the electricity bill, the federal contribution to offshore contributions and neutralising the costs of the federal contribution to the gas bill. For the coming year it is a saving of 30 euros that is not passed on in the invoice. This system is structurally registered, which means that this analysis is made year after year. That is why this government dares to speak of structural action. We cut in the way costs are charged. From 2022 onwards, we will be able to make that energy standard operational. It doesn't end there. The first step of this energy standard is, as I said, the application of those exemptions. However, we also need to look at what happens to purchasing power in a sustainable way. What happens to the competitiveness of companies? For this we use the FORBEG study. We will write in the law that the CREG will have the power to carry out a study on the basis of the FORBEG study. On the energy bill, for each component and user category, a comparison will be made with abroad to determine whether there is a deviation. We will also set a benchmark, because not every deviation is significant. The study will be carried out by 15 May. In determining a significant deviation from the benchmark established, the CREG will have the task of making recommendations for the improvement, adjustment and safeguarding of purchasing power, as well as for competitiveness. We will present this whole thing to Parliament this year in order to achieve its implementation on 1 January 2022. The Finance teams are ready for implementation. Suppliers will have to adjust their invoices. They are already adapting their systems for the implementation of this other major change, the new market model MIG 6. This requires a huge effort, a huge contribution from the suppliers for which I am very grateful. They will be ready for implementation on 1 January. I would now like to zoom in on the social tariff, on which questions have been asked, and in particular on the composition of the EUR 220 million. Mr Warmoes, EUR 100 million of this represents the increased cost of extending the social tariff in 2021. If we can help 20% of families today, that is only one side of the story. After all, these families are already being helped, because in February we decided to increase the social rate for that extended target group. We have been faced with rising prices, which also means that the budgetary cost, initially estimated at EUR 176 million, is increasing by EUR 100 million. That is the impact that we are creating with the social tariff for that large group. There is also EUR 32 million for phasing out. It is an extension of the social tariff to spring, about winter. We will not just leave these people to their fate afterwards and tell them to go further. We'll do a phase-out. This means, in concrete terms, that we will design an intermediate rate so that these people are gradually brought back to the commercial market. Next, there is EUR 72 million for the EUR 80 reduction, which is indeed designed to absorb the increase inherent in the social tariff. That's the fastest way to act. Finally, there is EUR 16 million in additional funds for the Gas and Electricity Fund, a fund that this Parliament is very keen on, because it was this Parliament that made possible indexation for the first time in December 2019 for a long time. Those resources will indeed have a focus on people who do not get the social rate. The people who are at the OMCW today who have a broader problem of poverty and debt are not necessarily people who have the social tariff. That is why we are providing additional resources. As far as the social tariff is concerned, I would like to make a small bridge with something you have said, Mr Wollants. You referred to an initial proposal from my group, in particular on the allocation of the social tariff in the context of the corona crisis in order to be able to intervene more quickly. The initial proposal of the Green Group was to work with an income ceiling that we have chosen for BIM, for the right to the increased allowance, and to extend it by 30%. What you say is true, however. There is no instrument today to ensure that this can be applied automatically. With the government, I have studied several ways in which we could further argue. However, there is no ready instrument. There is no ready instrument that we can use immediately. However, people are facing rising invoices today. So working with the income ceiling expands the group. It's got working people in it, too. No one here wants to set up categories of groups against each other. There is no competition between people who have it more or less or most difficult. It is targeted for one and at the same time structural action for the other. However, it was also able to act quickly. This is partly the use of the existing instruments and also simply conduct policies and take the coalition agreement to heart and implement it. That is why we can come forward with a structural reform that helps everyone. Perhaps you would have liked to see large sums of money. I can understand that. However, an ad hoc policy and ad hoc solutions have never taken our country any further. It is much more important to be able to act on a structural basis and to be able to conduct structural policies. That is what our economy and the energy transition need. In the area of social policy, it is above all a shared responsibility between all the entities of this country. There is no need for competition between those entities either. We see today that the people with payment difficulties who have been dropped by their commercial supplier in Brussels and Wallonia are being dropped at the social rate. In Flanders, this is at the expense rate. Mr Wollants, you have just said that you have been working on this yourself. I didn't understand exactly what you were doing. The discussion about the disarming rate will continue here for a while, I suspect. However, if you do the V-test today, you will find that the supply charge for gas is lower than the commercial tariffs and is among the lowest for electricity. They're not uniform for the whole of Flanders. That's right. They are not besieged. That's right. However, the fact remains that in the regions too, the levers are there to act on social policy, even when it comes to customers with payment difficulties that are dropped. In this respect, there is a different practice in Brussels and Wallonia vis-à-vis Flanders. However, it is up to the Regions to do so. Finally, I would like to comment on some of the factual elements that have been introduced here. In Belgium, the gas supply is up. There's nothing else in the paper today. We're at the top three in Europe. Meanwhile, at EU level, we are at a gas level above 70% and measures are also being taken within the EU to improve this in the short term. Yesterday, the European Commission published what it calls its 'toolbox', which includes the procurement of gas through group purchases, specifically in order to be able to replenish those gas stocks. I'd also like to talk about CRM. Mr Van Lommel, what you have said defies imagination. Let's stick to the facts. You have spoken of subsidising gas plants. You have been following the discussions in the Energy Committee for some time. The CRM is the investment mechanism to support new capacity. Because we have a security of supply problem in all circumstances because 5 out of 7 nuclear power plants cannot remain open, we need new capacity. This is technology-neutral. To all those in this hemisphere who are in vain trying to systematically consolidate the CRM into gas power stations, I say quite clearly: you are wrong. If that were the case, the European Commission would never have approved the CRM without conditions on 27 August. She didn't even let me come and tell me to come back home. The prerequisite for having an investment mechanism is technology neutrality. In order to ensure this technology neutrality, we have taken additional measures to ensure that it is also effectively technology neutral in the facts. We did this by organising two auctions, one four years in advance, which is now over, and one year in advance. For that second auction we set aside a lot of volume, just to give projects such as batteries and storage every opportunity and not to contract excess capacity to gas-fired power stations. The right thing to do, as Mrs Leen Dierick said at some point in the committee. It's about determining the right thing. Not too much, not too little. In the meantime, it is well known that in the T-4 auction which has now ended, we have limited the new capacity to what is strictly necessary: a maximum of 2 to 3 gas power stations. And you know too, Mr Van Lommel, although you are making an abstraction of it here because you are coming to committee, you are following the debates, you are reading the press because you are constantly quoting it - that we have received compliments from the European Commission because we have gone a step further. Because we have not limited ourselves to the mere state aid aspect of this policy, but have incorporated additional sustainability criteria. Strictly speaking, that was not necessary, because CO2 emissions cannot increase, it has been capped at European level. And yet we have imposed additional conditions to ensure that these power stations do a conversion, so that they register in the energy transition and work optimally with sun and wind. And I hear you say, Mr Van Lommel: 'That is expensive, it is expensive energy'. There are two technologies that are falling in price today: sun and wind. You said: 'It is expensive, Mrs van der Straeten, to import it.' I refer you to the last two reports of the CREG - and further, but with the two most recent you only have to click twice on their website - which makes the analysis of our electricity and gas markets for each year and more specifically of our exports. And then you will see, Mr Van Lommel, that the two last interconnections that our country has put into operation, namely those between Belgium and the UK and between Belgium and Germany, two interconnections for large quantities of renewable energy that can be brought to and exported to our country, have created price convergence. Interconnections ensure price convergence. And we're going to make another one, as you know, with Denmark. The plan is to connect our land to a very large windmill park at sea that they're going to build there. To bring more of those cheap electrons to our country. So, no, Mr Van Lommel, I cannot accept that we are conducting the energy debate on the basis of part of the story, which you then join. It is about security of supply, affordability and sustainability. It's about our economy and our families. It has been long enough for the energy debate to be restricted to a debate on hardship, torment and problems. No, the energy sector is a sector of solutions and opportunities. Energy brings prosperity to our country. That has been the case in the past and will be the case in the future. No one in this country, no one who pays his bill, no one who is faced with high prices, no one who makes investment decisions, will benefit from a speech in this House that tells half facts and half truths. That's not how I stand in it. That's not how this government stands. That is not the way we conduct our policies. More specifically about the CRM, I can say that the auction is over. That means that Elia is currently working on a report on the auction results. This will be delivered to the CREG for validation, which will be published by 31 October, as stated in the law. In the coalition agreement, we said, and that was repeated by the Prime Minister at 2 p.m. last night, and before that by others in this hemisphere, and also in the press, that we will analyse the results. This analysis covers two aspects: security of supply and price. That will happen in November. And so I will not anticipate that today. I can't anticipate that either. There's gonna be a report. There's gonna be an evaluation. Everything else is speculation today. However, we are almost there. It's October 14th today. That is, October 31 is in two weeks, and November is next month. Then we can have the debate in a good way at different times. For the debate must be conducted, at the sharp edge of the cut. Choices have to be made. Choices can be made. That is important, because the change we are facing is great. Everyone in this country deserves us to look at it in a good way. So let us do the same. We have done this several times in committee. The preparatory work for the CRM is an example of this. It is an example of how we in this House do not have a classic opposition, not a classic majority. Mr Wollants, I refer to the derating factors, I refer to the CRM resolution, on which you have contributed from your group in order to make this system work. Because you also believe in the importance of security of supply. Because you don't want to turn anyone out of electricity. Because you don't want to take that risk either. There were also questions from the majority. Mr Leysen, you have pointed out several times, Mrs Dierick, that we need to link the debate on the CRM to the energy standard and to make both Siamese twins. You said several times that we must think beyond the present legislature and that we cannot postpone it for ourselves. Mr Verduyckt, you have said several times that when it comes to competitiveness, CRM is an excellent means of opening up the production market. My group has very often referred to the sustainability criteria. There is a lot of talk here about Mrs Marghem, but I am not participating. She started the dossier, and when she was no longer a minister, she came to the committee every time as a member of parliament to say that the new European methodologies had to be respected, no matter what we did. I think that also deserves respect, ladies and gentlemen. We need to work together on this file. It's in the interests of our country, it's a strategic dossier, but I'm optimistic about it. I like to come to Parliament, we always have a good debate here. There is still a great deal of work ahead of us and we can achieve this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u7	I will not respond, Madam President, because Mr Wollants will do so, but in the media we have seen a detailed list of investments that we, as chamber members, have not received. In De Tijd there are quite a few details about that. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke about transparency and such. It is, of course, strange that the press has more information on these important things than Parliament. I find that rather disgusting, which is why I'm breaking in. Can you ask the government that we get those documents as soon as possible? It is an outrageous way of working that they are being held back from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u8	I see no reason why we should withhold information from Parliament. We'll never do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u9	You speak to someone who likes a touch of humor. I assume you will contact the Prime Minister immediately, because my question is very serious. We can't joke about that. Unfortunately, you are indeed telling a joke, because the government does not consistently share information and certainly not in this case. We are talking about a detailed list of investments, of which we have only received a very general figure and we have guessed what will happen to them. It's about a lot of taxpayers' money. That is not a decent way of dealing with Parliament. I would like you to ask the Prime Minister to rectify this as soon as possible. It is an indecent method, especially against the background of the Prime Minister's great promise of transparency. His words have just been printed in the report. It's very quick that he doesn't stick to that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u10	It is good that you have clarified the energy standard system with which you want to work. You referred mainly to the cost of 156 million, but not to the exact phasing-out scenario for costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u11	That's right. In the figures for the multiannual budget, we continue on scenarios, as we are concerned about by the CREG. Less revenue between one year and the other is due to the EUR 100 million of offshore production. In addition, there is regularization in 2 years. The EUR 100 million is due, among other things, to the decline in the covid crisis. In the following years, we see that it is different. When discussing the draft law in committee, I will bring the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u12	Madam Secretary, I think it is important to know how the system will work. I do not have all the figures available, but I get the impression that it takes two directions. On the one hand, an amount has not been directly allocated to the impact on competitiveness compared to neighbouring countries and part of the potential increase in past charges compared to the additional costs in 2021 should be attributed to it. On the other hand, the energy bill does not seem to reduce by an average of EUR 30 compared to 2021. Your policy choice reduces the increase and the difference with our neighbouring countries, but it does not necessarily mean that the difference between 2021 and 2022 in federal additional costs is on average EUR 30. According to this arithmetic, this can be 10 or 15 euros, if it would also prevent an increase of 10 or 15 euros in federal extra costs. We have to be careful in that regard. The issue is so complex that accusations against the press do not fit; it is not easy to express it. In any case, I believe that we should continue on this point in committee. After all, the reduction in gas and electricity bills will not necessarily be on average EUR 30; this is the case if it is compared with its possible evolution in 2022 in the case of non-intervention. That difference is not one compared to 2021. We need to investigate this, because families and companies will of course check the cost of the project in 2021 compared to 2022 and what advantage they will receive with the system.We do not have those figures today. I think we should get that clear in committee. As far as the comparison with the neighbouring countries is concerned, I have already warned your predecessor to measure the exact effect. At the moment gas prices are acting a bit strange everywhere, it is difficult to compare, but in recent years our gas prices have been at the lowest of our neighbouring countries. Your exercise should not make you decide that, taken together, the lower gas price compensates for a large amount of higher electricity prices and that there is no significant difference at the end of the journey. The message may well be that there is no need to change the price of electricity, as gas prices compensate for the increase. But not everyone uses gas and who has a heat pump or electric car does not necessarily have gas heating. If both parameters are used for the comparison and not the vectors separately, then one might come up with strange results. But of course I do not know the exact figures, nor do I know how you will apply them. So we have to look at that. Pending confederalism, I am also standing up for our Walloon friends, which heats 52% with fuel oil. We must also take account of this problem. This is, to a lesser extent, a problem in Flanders, although it still exists, for the sake of clarity. The combination of these vectors could be a problem there. In any case, I look forward to the texts you will be submitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u13	Your explanation is, of course, the perfect illustration of why we should be able to transcend differences in our country and why we should be able to work together, rather than organising a bid. You referred to heat pumps and electrification. You referred to fuel oil, with the difference between Wallonia and Flanders. Addressing the energy bill is a shared responsibility and everyone can act under their own powers. If we do that, we can strengthen each other. We are tackling the federal share today, which is 5% on the invoice. There are also levers in the regions. And we don't have to do that in a competitive logic. Indeed, those who pay their invoices today have a different context and can be helped by energy efficiency measures, by supporting investment in renewable energy. A very interesting idea was launched today in the press by an energy expert. It would help everyone if we could overcome these differences and actually work together to ensure that affordable energy is provided in a structural way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u14	Madam Minister, I understand your point, but on the other hand, it is sometimes very difficult to formulate a measure that is most appropriate for Flanders and the most appropriate for Wallonia at the same time, given the different contexts. For example, we see large differences in the use of wood stoves and pellet stoves. With one silver bullet, these two very different problems can only be solved with difficulty. In recent days, this has already come to light, for in addition to energy policy, this also applies to labour market policy, for example. Sometimes we have to dare to recognise the need for a different approach, rather than one approach for everyone, for which everyone is equally dissatisfied. We must also look at the way in which you want to use the Gas and Electricity Fund. You say it's the fastest method, but that's only the fastest method if you don't have to change anything or do not have to do too much with that letter, so if you don't have to take a legal initiative to amend the law of 2002. When a legislative amendment is needed, you will lose a lot of time, while I understand that you want your measure to be effective before the winter. That might be a problem. In a distant past, I have been involved in the special committee of an OCMW Council for a number of years. There I have noticed that the application through the so-called Vande Lanotte fund is not always as fast as we would like. You say that it is the quickest way to do something, in which I can follow you a little bit if you only have to put the regulatory framework in order by means of the letter, but then there is another step that needs to be taken to ensure that people really have something to do with it, which is another aspect. If we are talking, for example, about an energy-efficient refrigerator or an energy-efficient washing machine, we know that its effect on the invoice will only become visible after a year, so that the consumer will only feel greatly delayed, not during the winter. This also has to do with the payment of advance invoices. We're going into it in a lot of detail right now. The specific estimate for quarter 1 next year is 208 million euros. I come with my calculation to another amount, given the increase in the ceilings. We will have to go into that later. We should take a look at that. Perhaps there are funds in there that have already been released and that we can use to give a wider part of the middle class opportunities. A great deal has also been said about the CRM. For the sake of clarity, our position is that we want as few gas plants as possible, if possible even none. There have been a lot of interventions in the past. I have also deliberately started to adapt and improve legislation. You could ask why I'm working on that if I don't want gas power stations and not CRM? I'm doing that to make sure the cost is under control. It is not because I am against the whole mechanism - I voted against twice - that I have to say that it may cost what it wants. That would turn the world upside down. In that sense, I should not remind you of any of the methods used to ensure that a whole package of capacity has disappeared from that first auction. That happened to be due to an amendment I added at the time, in particular the one relating to those 200 hours. According to the calculation, this amounts to 1,4 gigawatts which thus shifts. That is 1.4 gigawatt which was not auctioned in T-4 and for which no gas plants are eligible. In this respect, the big question is what other steps have been taken to bring this down, in addition to the inclusion of the waste burners and the CHPs that might still be active. I had to fight very hard to keep up the 200-hour amendment. It was somewhat before your return, your resurrection in Parliament, but I was also approached by people from your group to please amend that 200-hour amendment so that it went out. I remember our first debate following the 2019 elections. You told me then that I only wrote that amendment to keep the nuclear power stations open. Today you are using that amendment to make sure that we need fewer gas plants. So maybe we found each other somewhere. Now let's get that 2 gigawatt and we'll be out of here. Colleagues, in a number of areas we need to look beyond the actual consequences. However, I fear that the effect of this energy standard could be much smaller than what we have been told. I would be happy to look at what is actually happening in committee, because it is very difficult to have discussions without the texts being on the table. We must seriously consider whether this EUR 30, originally EUR 50, would be an effective achievement. I may see other things happening there, which at the end of the journey may affect the energy bill in a very different way. If the effect for 2021 and 2022 is somewhere between 10 and 20 euros, then a measure such as that in Flanders, which could yield up to 70 euros, is definitely not so bad for the larger group of the middle class. We need to find out which direction it's headed. Above all, I would like to see the texts, because the EUR 30 seems to me already an overestimate. Furthermore, these 120 and 60 will depend very much on the assessments made in terms of competitiveness compared to our neighbouring countries. So we are certainly going to talk about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u15	Of course, it's two things one. In recent times, you have not missed a moment to remind me, quite rightly, of the calculation of the CREG which indicated that there was an excess of EUR 100 million for the offshore. Yesterday, and also today, you called for attention to be paid to the cost of the federal contribution, the cost of rising prices and the cost of the social tariff. You do not leave behind to point out that there are rising costs. There are and that was the system so far. If the costs increase, they are immediately passed on in the invoice. So, on the one hand, you cannot warn me of costs all the time, and on the other hand you can tell me that the EUR 30 is wrong. That's not consistent. We provide a rule button on the invoice, to ensure that the costs do not end up on the invoice. It is therefore an effective saving. It is a saving this year and will be calculated year after year how these costs evolve. We can then go into this in more detail in committee, unless all colleagues want to know exactly what is happening with regard to the evolution of the cost of offshore wind energy. Afterwards, the CRM will also arrive, and we will soon know what the cost will be. That's how it works. It is of two things one, Mr Wollants. There are charges, I agree with you on that, but we took them out of the invoice. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u16	I just want to say that if the Flemish Government says tomorrow that the Flemish additional costs will not increase next year and they will effectively ensure that they did not increase EUR 100, your group colleagues in the Flemish Parliament will say that they have done nothing. You need to be vigilant about that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u17	Madam Secretary, I'm going to replicate some of the things you said. First of all, when you talk about green hydrogen plants, I can only welcome that. As you know, I am very much in favour of this. I also understand that it is not obvious, given the division of powers and the like in this country, as is the case in many cases. Creating a legal framework is one thing, but you are talking about investments, and they will often have to come from the private sector. You also say that people work within the Benelux, but I have often mentioned in committee that we see that there is more ambition in the Netherlands. There they say they want to be the absolute pioneer in hydrogen. That's why I often call for ambition. We must ensure that we do not miss the hydrogen train in Flanders, our industry absolutely needs it. You spoke about the social tariff and its phasing-out. You say that you will then move to an intermediate rate, but what will you do if it turns out that today's high energy rates remain on for a while. We don't have a visual on that yet. Will you review or change your policy? The CRM has also been mentioned. I'm not denying this is technology-neutral. In practice, however, we knew from the outset that it would be gas plants, even if that is a technology-neutral fact. I understand, Madam Secretary, that you are faced with an earlier policy with which you must move forward. I don't think you can do magic. I realise that too little action has been taken in this area in the past and that this is why we are in this situation. The Flemish Interest abstained on that CRM resolution at the time. After all, we stand with our backs against the wall. Even if certain nuclear power stations remain open, alternatives will have to be sought. Those nuclear power plants are here now anyway. One can talk about nuclear waste, one can be for or against nuclear power plants, but they are there. Madam Minister, if you had even considered keeping the nuclear power stations open, you could have carried out the agreed energy transition, but you would have needed fewer gas plants. You cannot deny this reality. That is why, as a Flemish interest, we had tabled a bill to extend the lifespan of a number of nuclear power plants and to at least engage with the operator to see what was possible. I regret that this has not happened. If you had chosen those two nuclear power stations, you would now need fewer gas plants. Madam Minister, I understand why you want to make the interconnection, but I am partly a cool lover of it. I'll explain why. You are talking about a certain price convergence. However, it is important that we focus as much as possible on energy independence. After all, I don't like being dependent on abroad. You say that we now need to establish an interconnection with Denmark. We don't just do that, you know that. In the future, therefore, we will be particularly dependent on the energy from Denmark. We must ensure that we have as much energy production as possible in our own hands. Why should you opt for that interconnection or interconnectivity? That's because the production of sun and wind is unpredictable. That's a fact. I am not so sure that the import of green energy, as you call it, will actually be so cheap. Nor am I sure that after that we will not feel that we have been'saved', as at the time with the sale to France. At that time we also had to start importing energy. I'm stuck with that concern today. You still haven't been able to convince me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u18	Madam President, I understand the hunger of Members for more information. All in good time, however. I very much appreciate the accuracy and clarity of the Minister's speech. It is clear that we should not play panic football here or cause panic. In the end, the solutions that we need to work out are solutions that have to work over the legislative period and must also have the support of all levels of policy. Unlike Mr Van Lommel, I believe that we should work together with our neighbouring countries and the members of the European Union in the context of a coherent European policy. However, as chairman of the committee, I am looking forward to the further explanations that will come in due course and to the debates in the Committee on Energy and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u19	Mr Van Lommel, let's take a look at the figures. Belgium imports 544.6 terawatts of energy today. Of these is 43 %, or 235.7 terawattures, petroleum products, i.e. crude oil and derivatives and 24 %1, or 31.9 terawattures, uranium. I told you last week that uranium does not come from the Limburg mines and petroleum does not come from an offshore drilling platform in the North Sea. Furthermore, we import another 33 %, or 177 terawattures, gas. That is the import dependence of Belgium today. So do not stop saying that these nuclear power plants will improve our import dependence. After all, the uranium, the fuel for these nuclear power plants, is not from Belgium. Soon I will come to the government and then to Parliament with the hydrogen fusion. This is a way of being more resilient and less dependent on imports, just like the efforts we make in our own waters when it comes to wind at sea. It is the choice for renewable energy that will make us more resilient because we can conclude agreements so that we can make interconnections with more and other countries than today. We'll have more choice. Your story, Mr Van Lommel, is only an option if one is an island. We also have examples of this. Ireland today has an eight-hour reliability standard, the highest reliability standard in the European Union, because it does not have interconnections and because it cannot count on the import or exchange of energy. After all, imports are also the subject of exports. In the last two years, we were net exporters. There is no need to simplify it to simplism every time, because it is not simple. It is complex and responds with a sophisticated, targeted and structural policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u20	Madam Minister, saying that energy is a basic supply of a particular strategic nature, and advocating that you take it into your own hands as much as possible and produce it yourself, independently of abroad, is that so abnormal? I think that's just a matter of common sense. That has nothing to do with simplism. I do not understand what you want to reduce the debate. Produce electricity in your own country, can you still do it? I don't want to be dependent on overseas. We have had that in the past with oil, and I know that will be the same with hydrogen in the future. We'll see about that anyway. We have had hearings, I know that we are already talking about green hydrogen from Latin America. I can see the mood. Energy is something that we need to produce and hold in our own hands here as much as possible. In this way we can also determine and limit the price for the people. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u21	Madam Minister, on a number of points in your answer, I have a few comments or additional questions. You started by saying something like: I'm not excluding anyone, I'm working focused but also structuralally. Okay, if you want, we can admit it. You give 30 euros to that famous 80% of families who are not entitled to a social rate. This compared to an increase of 714 euros in the invoice. So yes, you're doing something, but that's less than a drop on a hot plate. As far as the structural aspect is concerned, as you know, the current system of degressivity is unfair, because the cost of subsidies on the offshore side is now being passed on to the invoice "s' and in the future too, but by excise duty. In fact, they are mainly on the invoice of the families, because they pay the full pot, and the large consumers - the large companies - have a degressive rate and therefore pay much less. I asked you how you are going to deal with this, since you are going to convert these charges into excise duties. I suspect and hope that Mr Verduyckt will come back to that, because he has already referred several times to the unfair distribution of the Flemish taxes, because that is where the families pay most, but also federally. I think I have understood from your answer, Mr President, but I would have liked to confirm that you are going to maintain that unfair system. Then a small correction on the FORBEG study. I said that, according to this study, there is no overall problem with the competitiveness of companies in terms of energy prices vis-à-vis the countries around us. However, I have said globally and there are some exceptions. You pointed that out in your reply. But do I understand correctly that you are only looking for a tailor-made solution for those specific companies? You also mentioned an exemption for certain sectors. You also said that we are the only entity that increases purchasing power. Actually, I thought that was quite a punishment. What you are doing about the energy price is actually compensating the rise a little bit. You reduce or slow down a little that increase, but you should not talk about an increase in purchasing power. Your entity, the federal government, is also the one who blocked wages, Mrs. Van der Straeten. Raised purchasing power? No, it is difficult for us to accept that. You also like to talk about correct facts. You said that you helped 20% of families in January. That's not true. You helped 10 %, because out of the 20% of the families who benefit from the social rate today, about 10% already enjoyed the social rate. They were already entitled to that. You added 10 % to that. Again, that is a very good measure. We have also supported it. But you cannot say that you have helped 20% of the families. You have repeated two or three times that you wanted to act quickly and effectively. We are in favour of this, of course, because it is now that the problem arises. But as far as we are concerned, the fastest and most effective action you could do is to reduce VAT. That is an effective measure. According to our calculations, it yields the families 321 euros. That's a lot more than the 80 euros and the 30 euros with which you come. This is applied by Spain. This was also recommended by the European Commission, which you seem to have good relations with. The ABVV and Test-Achats are also for this, as are probably many other organisations of civil society. We have already said that, of course, we regret that the PS and Forward, which had made it a breaking point, did not achieve that. Connor Rousseau regrets in his video chat that he didn't make it. But with his crocodile tears, of course, people are nothing. I also need to refresh your memory, Mrs. Van der Straeten. I checked and in 2016, I suspect that you were then a Member of Parliament, Ecolo and Green voted against increasing VAT on energy from 6% to 21%. You voted against it then, so you were in favour of that 6%. Now I have to say that four parties in the government cannot make it against two small liberal parties, and I regret that. I would also like to make two comments. It is good that you confirmed the amount of EUR 16 million in the budget table, but I asked what the figure is based on and whether there is sufficient resources in the fund. You did not answer that, nor did you answer the question of whether the indexation mechanism would be adjusted. You also did not answer the question about biofuels, of which you are aware. I suspect you are still negotiating this with your liberal partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u22	I did not say anything about VAT, but it does not have to be reduced to the question of which political party is in favour or against a reduction in VAT. You refer to Spain, but is this comparison justified? There is a very specific context in our country today. Mr Laaouej brought that very eloquence yesterday. There is an automatic wage adjustment in our country as a result of indexation, which Spain does not have. It is true that in the toolbox of the European Commission there is also something about VAT and Spain applies it, but we have other methods to act on. I could also turn the question to this open question: if VAT is reduced, would that not lead to an index jump, which would ultimately make the people you are defending so eloquence worse?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u23	I would like to comment on the reduction of VAT to 6%. I also spoke to your group leader about this last night, Mr Warmoes. It is also about making agreements and finding solutions. That is indeed our position. It was yesterday, and it will be tomorrow, but in the meantime, the government has reached an agreement with a package of measures that will matter to those who need it most today. That is the most important thing for us. I told your group leader last night that the PVDA should also learn to make agreements. Next week we will be voting on the interparliamentary climate resolution and again you will be on the sidelines. Mr Warmoes, you are reducing energy policy to a lighting button: it is on or off. That's not true. This is the same as in the discussion with the Flemish Interest about the gas plants. It's not gas plants or nuclear power plants. At least yesterday the N-VA was so brave to admit humility that there will indeed be gas plants in the energy mix. We need to get rid of the unification of the debate, which the Minister condemns. This discussion is far too complex and deserves far more intellectuality than is shown here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u24	You come up with the same thing every time, it starts to wear off. With regard to the conclusion of agreements, mention the interparliamentary resolution. You also arrived yesterday at Mr Hedebouw. You said wrongly that we were standing aside. However, we have not done so. We have spoken with Mr Muyters who took the initiative there. We have also made proposals, some of which have been held back. So we have been actively involved in improving that interparliamentary resolution. The first version of Mr Muyters was completely impuvable for us, but also for you, for Ecolo-Green and for certain other entities. He has worked on this and there has been a second and then a third version. If we say that something for us is a breaking point, then that is also a breaking point for us. If science says it should be minus 65%, then we should just act on it and not include all kinds of economic considerations. Mr De Croo himself said yesterday that it is a matter of life or death. It is the most important challenge for our generation. We have therefore asked for at least a moratorium on the extraction of new sources of oil. We are going to zero emissions in 2050, but we would allow new sources of oil to be exploited. That's just insane. You made a breaking point for VAT. At some point, choices and a compromise are made. We can also compromise. In the current situation, with the exploding of energy prices, you are letting that fall into the trap of a package of measures which are not the same as the situation facing families today. There is a wage indexing in Belgium that is not available in Spain. You also know that the index was forged in Belgium. Energy is therefore in the index basket, but fuels such as diesel and petrol are not. By the way, the indexation mechanism is also slowing down. First of all, the increases are not fully calculated and, secondly, there is a delaying effect. If you lower VAT today, its impact on the index will only be visible within a few months. Pending a measure, people still pay too much. In addition, energy expenditure for the poorest families is relatively much higher in their overall expenditure compared to what those families gain by indexing two months later. Thus, in view of the impact on current rates for households, a reduction in VAT is an advantage for people in any case. That is not an index jump, at most an indexation may be postponed a little. Low-income families have every interest in reducing VAT now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u25	Mr Warmoes,'maybe a little delayed', that is not true when it comes to an index jump. It's gonna be skipped, not caught up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u26	Madam Secretary, that reasoning is actually insane. By analogy, VAT on water can also be increased to 21%, and VAT on bread as well, as this will increase wages. The silliness lies in the fact that wages will rise rapidly if all products are taxed at a rate of 21%. Why not 50 %? That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u27	We will begin the thematic discussion with questions to Secretary of State Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u28	Madam President, I did not initially sign up, but thank you for giving me the floor briefly. The openness of information to the representatives of the people to the openness of information to the friends of the press raises questions. I also read certain things in De Tijd where I frowned the eyebrows. So I feel obliged to take the floor. Even more shockingly, I found Mr Leysen from Open Vld, who said: 'I understand this hunger for information but all in good time'. When are we supposed to get that information? After the debate? Is that the new political culture? I therefore wonder a little what one has to hide. I would also like to give the press and the media all the information, but that also applies to us, the representatives of the wider people. The following made me frown the eyebrows. Today I read in De Tijd that there is 150 million euros going to the renovation of the government heritage. The emphasis would be on making buildings more energy efficient. Mr Secretary of State, you yourself advanced EUR 500 million less than two weeks ago to make public buildings more energy efficient. A brief calculation shows that this is a delta of 350 million euros. A little further back in time, but still recently, on 29 September 2021 I also read in De Tijd, which is now more interesting to read than the official government documents, that you put a plan on the government table showing that over the next 10 years, 5 billion euros will be needed to put the federal government's building heritage on track. One tenth of that amount was for energy renovation, which was EUR 500 million. 2 billion was already earmarked in the budgets of the Government of the Buildings. EUR 3 billion had to be found to implement the plan. Of those 3 billion, not so well negotiated, I guess, you'll get 150 million. At that rate, another small calculation teaches us, it will take 20 years. According to you, it was the first time 10 to 15 years in advance. You took a picture of the building heritage and the needs. It was therefore a combination of questions from trade ministers and the interventions needed to make the patrimony up-to-date. The priorities are to replace highly obsolete buildings, including some prisons, and to make the building park more energy efficient. For that last ambition, you will receive effective money. You didn't claim that EUR 3 billion. You wanted to create transparency and awareness for the huge needs. It was up to the government to decide whether the plan would be partially or fully implemented, which works are priority and at what rate the plan would be implemented. The number of projects could be reduced or the list could be spread over 15 years instead of over 10 years. What calculation was used to determine the amount of EUR 150 million? Then why did you initially move EUR 500 million forward? So how do you explain that 350 million euro hole? Will only a small part of what is needed be able to happen and what about the rest? In order to fully implement your plan, therefore, there is still no EUR 2.85 billion. What did the government decide? Was a budget plan drawn up for the next 10 or 20 years? If not, why not? Where is all this money going to come from, or are that also taking care of later? The EUR 150 million are peanuts compared to the EUR 3 billion needed. It's a mini-step ahead and at this pace it's going to take way too long. To reduce the cost to the government, you will rent less, which is wise. This is a serious trend break with the past, because among the purple governments of Guy Verhofstadt a lot of administrative buildings were sold and then rented again under the so-called sale-and-lease-back operations. They cut the budget in the short term, but in the longer term they cost the government. You noted that every year we pay 450 million euros of rent, including 30 million euros for the Financial Institutions. By 2030, that should be 10% less. I have a few questions about this too. How many sale-and-lease-back contracts do we currently have? How much do you want to save over the next three years on the rent for the federal government and how will that amount be achieved? I refer again to The Time, of which I am a fan and you too, I think. Today we can read in De Tijd where the billion euros of investment is going by 2024. The newspaper refers to a list of 29 investments. However, in the budget table we find only one line with the amount spread over three years, EUR 200 million in 2022, EUR 350 million in 2023 and EUR 450 million in 2024. However, we do not know what lies behind it, but the media do, while the Prime Minister was still talking on Tuesday about the government's transparency about the figures for Parliament. However, together with his Deputy Prime Minister, he had first informed the press about the budgetary plans. That is simply a contempt for parliamentary democracy. We've already charged that, but you're just pulling the line. This is not the way the opposition can do its job. That may be your goal, but we will not surrender. It's not supposed to be that the press knows more than we do. Can you confirm that the budget agreement includes a list of 29 public investments? When was that list delivered to us, to Parliament? The press gets more information and figures than we do. So the Prime Minister's transparency is not as great as he pretended or claimed on Tuesday. This is no way to work. This will make Parliament's work impossible. I therefore felt it necessary, Madam President, to return to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u29	For all to be clear: everything in time and in the right place means that one sometimes has to be patient in the context of professional management, but one also has to communicate. But I fully understand that in these times of classical and digital media, which are becoming increasingly important, control is sometimes a little more difficult. There's also the temptation. Yesterday, your group chairman was not able to resist the temptation to leave the group chairmen' debate for a TV recording. So let's be realistic...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u30	That applies to everyone and it is a reality that we have to live with. I have a few more questions for the Secretary of State, because it is really about a lot of money. It's not just about spending money, it's also about spending 'good'. We know that there is still work to be done in the Buildings Regie and that there is a culture to be installed there that pays greater attention to sustainability and efficiency in the use of resources, and not just to technicality. I would also like to know how far he stands and how he incorporates this in his action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u31	Dear MPs, I don't know how the press got that document. I'll put your question to the Prime Minister. You have noted that the Government of the Buildings is an important tool for change. I am thinking here of the climate, telework, the impact of the corona crisis and so on. The Regie has, in all honesty, made a lot of efforts in recent years to improve itself, but it is also true that there is still work to be done. I am sure that the Government of the Buildings must be managed in a rigorous manner, in the long, medium and short term. In the long term, there must be a vision. We've got to be Lucid. That's why I wanted a multi-annual investment plan. I said that in my policy paper a year ago. What is a multi-annual investment plan? First there is the starting point, in particular the land register of needs. I've taken care of that with all my colleagues. We've identified 5 billion needs. It's about prisons, justice palaces, administrative buildings, and also about what's important is a climate plan. After the cadaver, we're gonna need a schedule. That's the investment plan. This government has already committed the funds to this end for no less than EUR 2 billion. They come from the general budget of the Government of the Buildings. They also come from decisions already taken by the Council of Ministers. Now we must set our priorities and reconcile our ambitions and the resources available. It's right that we can't always do everything. According to the land register, there's 5 billion in needs and we have 2 billion. Here we have a little more, between 120 and 130 million for a number of issues such as the reduction of energy consumption, but also for a number of priorities. Because if we only have 2 billion for the coming years, and that is the commitment of this government until the end of the legislature, then I do not know how it will go after 2024. That is why we must now set out a number of priorities. A first priority is to reduce the energy consumption of our buildings, which is very important to us, and the Directorate of Buildings is an instrument at the service of change. To this end, we will carry out audits to supplement the cadastre of energy consumption. My motto is done is better than perfect. So we didn't wait to start work. Every day we improve the energy efficiency of our buildings by insulating, HVAC and installing solar panels. For example, in Uccle we installed 270 solar panels at the Space Pole. This leads to a reduction of 36 tonnes of CO2. Our aim is to reduce our emissions by 500,000 tonnes of CO2 by 2040. That's already running. Every day, the Government of the Buildings invests in the efficiency of our buildings. The priorities are indeed, firstly, the climate but, secondly, also the symbolic buildings. I also want to guarantee access to the buildings. However, priority political choices must also be made. It is right that we should be allowed to change the duration of investments. We have the land register of five billion euros for ten or fifteen years, the canal is done by the BFM* or by PTPs or by creative solutions. Another point besides the long-term vision is ritual and a better structure in the day-to-day management process. This concerns the internal functioning of the Government of the Buildings. We can talk about this for a long time. We have talked a lot about this in committee. I'm always available for that. This also concerns better maintenance of the buildings. Better maintenance of the buildings ensures a longer lifespan, reducing investment needs in the long term. This also means managing the real estate portfolio. It's about a mutation of our buildings. We're leaving the old buildings for new ones. There is less area required by the new places of working, we support telework, but also more often become owners instead of tenants of our buildings. That's my opinion. As you said, we spend EUR 450 million a year on rental agreements today. I am sure that by reducing the areas, for example in Brussels, where we can use almost 300 m2 less, we can save around EUR 50 million per year. That's also a way to bring more rage. There is also upgrading of empty buildings. Today we have about 300.000 m2 of empty space throughout Belgium. We need to upgrade that and give it a new function, and if we can't, we need to sell it. The budget is very important for rigorous management, but if we have a good vision, a clear picture of needs and a transparent way of identifying priorities, then we will increase the anger and efficiency. I've said that the Government of the Buildings is a tool for change. We must respect that commitment and change and improve many things in management. That's a job I fulfill every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, your opening line on my question of public administration and the obtaining of these documents was: "I do not know how the press got this document, I will ask the Prime Minister." We are therefore well aware of the existence of such a document. Let me say that this goes against all the rules of public administration and respect for the representatives of the people. That's my opinion. Our group has said this on several occasions, and we hope that the government will finally have an ear for it. Do not be afraid of an honest debate in which we have the same document and the same content. I also heard you say that you had to choose priorities. Three billion was 150 million. I think you had to make a heavy commitment at the negotiating table, but so be it. What I find very interesting is also the savings on rental costs. The Verhofstadt government thought in the short term: sale-and-lease-back formulas are particularly lucrative for some. They sell a building for peanuts in order to get the budget in order in the short term and after decades we have to pay it back very expensively. On this point, Mr Secretary of State, you say that you will have to pay EUR 450 million in rents, and that you will have to assume that you will have to rent less 300 m2 here in Brussels this year, which means saving EUR 50 million. 300 m2 is a spacious apartment, so I absolutely do not understand how you get 50 million euros savings. You can explain that to me, perhaps it was a slip of the tongue, or at least I hope so, because otherwise we are very crazy to reason. My last question to which I would like an answer is about the fight against impunity and the pursuit of 100 percent punishment. I would like to know what the budget is that you have now specifically set aside for our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u33	It was clear: it was 300,000 m2. With a price of 175 euros per m2 for example, this will save around 50 million euros per year. This is an interesting amount compared to other real estate prices in Belgium. Your second question was about the prisons. I do not know the exact figures in my head, but you can ask me a written question on this, or we can talk about this in committee as a result of the forthcoming policy paper. However, I can tell you that we are planning about a thousand extra places in prisons. Those are often built finance managed (?) It is an amount that is not always easy to identify. The President: If there are no further questions or speeches, we can conclude this thematic discussion. I don't see Secretary of State Mahdi yet, even if he's been called twice. I hear he's in the coffee room. Then I assume he's coming. I do not see Mr Van Langenhove. Apparently, he left. Then there's one more speaker on the record. [N02/Peter De Roover(N-VA)/ ]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u34	I've just received reports that the streaming would be flat. That's kind of annoying. The President: Mr De Roover, I am told that there are indeed some problems with the old websites, but that they will normally be fine. When, of course, is the question. Meanwhile, the Secretary of State has come in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u35	Madam President, Secretary of State, we had a discussion last year, not long after your appointment, in the budget. That was not really addressed in the inquisition debate because there were no thematic debates at the time. In the budget, we were able to have a discussion. I wished you every success at that time and said that it would not be easy. Migration is a very difficult department, perhaps the hardest, because it gets very emotional very quickly because it is about people of flesh and blood, and because the insights and opinions on it are very divided. This is the case both in society and in the democratic expansion of society, which is a parliament. People's representatives have very different views on asylum and migration. You have an ambitious government agreement and an ambitious government statement. During the inquisition debate there was a rather sturdy part in which Mr De Croo went into what was intended. It was, on the one hand, a part that focused on better European border protection and, on the other, a very clear part that was about return. People who were not eligible had to be effectively returned. We are now a year away and the Prime Minister has barely said a word on your subject this time in his government statement. Your theme has disappeared somewhat into the background, although what is happening at European level, but also at global level, and in Flanders and Belgium is still topical. It is less priority because of corona, the socio-economic and energy debate and so on. I understand all that, but you're in an important department. It is also a department in which the electorate, especially in Flanders, wanted to give a very clear signal. I see that as a demand for more entanglement, clarification and change. The Prime Minister said: "It is time to set up a European management of asylum and migration with strong external borders." Two sentences, that's all it was dedicated to. Those are two sentences more than what the Prime Minister said about pensions, because he has devoted zero sentences to them, but it is still very lean and very little. What the Prime Minister said in substance is actually very sad. To both yours and my great frustration, this is, in fact, the dossier that has not progressed at European level, or has had little or no progress. The European external borders remain leaky. The influx has increased again very strongly after the corona period. The number of boats due on Lampedusa is unsustainable, the influx from Turkey to Greece has risen sharply again and there are also problems between Belarus and Lithuania and Poland, where a fence is currently being established. Step by step, we are building our own fortress Europe, full of barbed wire. That's an actual observation. I do not have a moral judgment on this, I leave it to others, but I can see that border protection is being very heavily used, also in the case of land inundation between Turkey and Greece, where fences are being built. At some point a kind of sound cannon was used, which was completely strange. You responded to that, too. We'll take care of all that stuff. In the meantime, we see that no progress is made at European level. European Commission President von der Leyen took a shot at her State of the Union a few weeks ago at the opening of the European Year. Strangely enough, she did not say anything about asylum and migration, while two Commissioners were appointed two years ago, in particular Mrs Johansson, a very progressive-left Swedish lady, and Mr Schinas, a Greek, responsible for our European way of life, who has to deal with the asylum and migration dossier. In my opinion, but Mr Loones will know that even better than I do, it has never happened that two Commissioners have been appointed for one theme. Two Commissioners were appointed for this purpose because Mrs von der Leyen just wanted to underline the importance of this issue for Europe, because they are two super-Commissioners. That's never happened before. Europe wanted to show that it listens to its voters and realizes that it has to do something, we need to fix our border, and that is why two Commissioners were even appointed to do so. The fact that Mrs von der Leyen says almost nothing about this two years later is not only painful, it is a sign on the wall. I'm going to go over what I hear in the corridors and hear from our people on the LIBE Committee. I read the following in De Tijd: "This European approach is awaiting us. Two years after a new asylum and migration pact was proudly announced by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and made it her top priority, there is hardly any mention of this. The negotiations are simply completely tied up and the vain hope that this legislature will still be reached at European level on an agreement on all reforms and new directives and regulations is shrinking every day." Allow me to review the article. Firstly, a new asylum regime is still in the early stages. Work will not resume until now, after amendment by the Commission. Secondly, the Return Directive. A new design was presented last year. No less than 754 amendments were tabled. Since the end of last year there has been no movement on the Return Directive. Thirdly, the directive on reception conditions. Nothing happened during this term of office. This has been blocked since 2019. Fourthly, the EU resettlement framework. The file's dead. The file was sent back to the negotiations at technical level since the Austrian Presidency, and that was a while ago. Finally, the reform of the Qualifications Directive. The file is part of unfinished business that was transferred from the previous legislature. Nothing's happened since then. Then there is the new regulation on Eurodac. That's very important. As negotiations on the rest of the asylum package reached an impasse in 2019, the Eurodac proposal has also been blocked. After publishing an amended proposal as part of the broader asylum and migration package in 2020, the Commission underlined its support for all elements of the provisional agreement between Parliament and the Council on the 2016 proposal. The Commission expects co-legislators to rapidly adopt the proposal on the basis of the agreement already reached. The rapporteur also hopes to be able to move quickly to the interinstitutional negotiations, but does not yet have a concrete date. And I can go on like this for a while. I find it particularly ironic that when the Prime Minister of this country says something about asylum and migration - a theme that so many people care about, about which so many people have an opinion and which they expect to have a policy - it is just about the European dossier, where everything is blocked. The only thing you have mentioned a few times is the fact that a genuine European asylum agency is now being set up. EASO would get a boost. You say that because EASO gets a boost, the procedures at the external borders are shorter. I've asked you a few times if you can prove that in numbers. How much shorter is that? Have those procedures been shortened? How were they shortened? What was the procedure used in Greece? Suppose I arrive at Lesbos tomorrow and I apply for asylum. The first date for an interview is two years later. At least when I was Secretary of State, I was. If one got a no, one had to appeal. It took that court a couple of years. That's how people were de facto there for a couple of years. It would be interesting to have this debate in committee and to compare the length of proceedings in Italy, Greece or Spain over the last ten years. Is that down? Has this decreased in recent months since the establishment of the European Agency for Asylum? Will it fall in the coming years? If so, that is a good thing. You know that I am very sceptical about that. So it is not going in the right direction, quite the contrary. The file is completely blocked. Allow me to find it improbably ironic that Mrs von der Leyen said at one point that the Commission had done all her homework: all the directives are ready and have been forwarded to Parliament on the one hand and to the Council on the other. Parliament, with a very left-wing majority in that committee, wants to make it even more difficult to send people back to the left, even more human rights, more civil rights, more open borders. In the Council we are dealing with the Visegrad countries which want to go seriously to the right. There are countries that are very much in agreement with this. Then there are the Western European countries who want a solution in particular. They want a fair spread. They think everyone should take their fair share. However, this does not get through because the Visegrad countries are blocking it and because Italy and Greece feel that they should take far too much. They mainly want to forward refugees, because they actually do. That's one of the biggest problems. That was a big problem for me too, but it only gets bigger and bigger. I am referring to secondary migratory flows, for which you have now launched a distress campaign. That's just a complete soup. Is that your fault? No, that's not your fault. Besides, I'm not very good at the guilt question. You inherited that, too. Mrs. De Block went to those councils, I went to those councils, Mr. Wathelet did the same. It can only be seen that it is not progressing and that it is only getting worse. We also have the French presidential election. That's already on the edge of the cut. I'm reading Mr. Zemmour's book. It's almost over. He does not spare European policy, he does not spare European migration policy, he does not spare Europe. He wants more sovereignty. The same applies to Mr Barnier, just like Mrs Le Pen, of course. And after the new book of those two journalists, Mr Macron has apparently also become a populist and will have no choice but to come up with a strict migration package. His Minister for the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, is an example of this with his statements about fighting Islamists and radical Islam, but also about a different migration policy. Last weekend he communicated that he is tired of Belgium sending so many migrants to France and that there will be additional border controls. According to Darmanin, half of the transmigrants in France, heading towards the UK, would come through Belgium. In the electoral campaign for May 2022, it will be a bid on the right-wing issues of security, migration, terror and radical Islam. It'll be nice to see. You're gonna be going through a lot. What is certainly not going to happen are breakthroughs in the European Council. Forget it. Nothing's gonna happen. I had the pleasure of talking for a long time last weekend with Mrs Krimi, a Member of La République and Marche, in Lisbon, at a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where Mr De Vriendt was also present. She works on migration and said it is very difficult at European level. There is also a very poisonous debate in France at the moment. So I'm really pessimistic. I believe that not only you, but the whole of the European Union, will not be dented in a pack of butter. It will be very difficult in the coming years. I have written a rather critical piece on the standstill and the lost years of migration. You have taken a number of initiatives, and you have also promised a number of things about the European story or at least worked out with it. Among other things, you have repeatedly stressed the need for the European Migration Pact to be established. In your opinion, it is essential that there be absolutely no more. The European Migration Pact does not contain a single directive, but 10 to 15 things that have to be done, of which I have listed a large part, and the vast majority of them are blocked for political, ideological, technical and legal reasons. You have also made it clear that you would ensure before the summer that countries that do not take back their illegal nationals would be subject to some sort of European visa sanctions system. You said you'd take care of that by the summer, but you couldn't tell us which countries they were talking about. I understand that's diplomatically sensitive. Mr Van Langenhove and I ask you twice a week or every month for a state of affairs on this matter. I think this is very difficult. I hear from the corridors of Schumann Square that this is completely blocked and that nothing will move in the area of migration for the results of the French presidential elections. That's what I hear, but perhaps you can contradict me. So that promise won't come into the house. You have also taken a number of initiatives at European level. Not so long ago, you sent a letter. That letter will be on the Knack Editorial. About how it ends up there, I have no idea. I would find it interesting if the chairman of the committee and all the members of that committee could also have access to it. I understand from the article in Knack that it concerns the application of the Dublin rules in Greece. The problem is that many people come to Greece and travel to Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. In Eurodac we see, through fingerprints, that these people have first been to Greece and therefore have to go back there. Because that's the system. However, we cannot actually organise a return to Greece because that country's asylum system is so disastrously poor and the reception system is also below par. How's that going? I read that this letter fell on a very cold stone with the Greek minister. Is that right? Have you had further discussions with your Greek colleague on the application of the Dublin Directive in Greece?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u36	Mr Francken, I would like to interrupt to inform you that the streaming of our sitting would still be flat. This means that the Members who are not here are unable to follow. So I'm afraid I'm going to have to propose a little suspension. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u37	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u38	After the interruptions of computer transmission, we had to interrupt the session. It seems that the difficulties are resolved. Nevertheless, tests are still being carried out to enable us to vote safely earlier. It seems that streaming works again but don't hesitate to show you if there are still problems. We will continue with Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u39	Madam President, 48 hours after the State or the Prime Minister's Union, I am in the Chamber. I'd like to take a look at where we were. I said a number of things about asylum and migration. I would like to talk about a number of elements. Asylum and migration was an important theme during the elections and is an important theme that lives strongly in our society. Not only here, but throughout Europe and throughout the Western world, that remains one of the hottest issues. That is important and it is good in itself to talk about it. It is a controversial issue, a subject on which there are very different opinions, from the left on the right and with which there is a lot of emotion. I have been able to experience this myself as Secretary of State, as you have, Mr Secretary of State, and as Mrs De Block has done during the years she has been trying to manage the department. That's a very emotional theme. It is about people of flesh and blood, about borders and about hard decisions that one sometimes has to make. That's never easy. While the Prime Minister said quite a bit about asylum and migration last year in his letter of inquiry, he said almost nothing about it a year later. He said two sentences: "It is time to set up a European management of asylum and migration with strong external borders." That's all he said. That's what we had to do. I must confess that this is a very skinny creature. I also draw the parallel with what was stated a few weeks ago by the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, during her State of the Union. Although she put very ambitious plans on the table two years ago, it was now also a particularly lean animal. It has put on the table a very ambitious agenda and has even identified two super-Commissioners to this end. In my opinion, it is the first time ever in the history of the European Commission that two Commissioners were designated for one portfolio, namely Mrs Johansson and Mr Schinas. The longer it takes, the less it is said about it. That is, of course, because no progress is made. The border remains fully open or leaks. There are a lot of problems at the south border. After the 2020 corona year, the number of illegal entries increased sharply in 2021. We have problems in Belarus, where migrants are being used as weapons by the pro-Russian regime of Lukashenko, in order to destabilise Europe. High gates are being erected. We have a problem between Greece and Turkey, both with the sea border and with the land border. There are more and more boats on Lampedusa, with all possible misery and problems. When we look at the very ambitious agenda of the European Commission two years ago, but also of the current government, which has now been reduced to two sentences in the government statement, we notice that it is mainly about a new European asylum and migration pact. That is not a single pact with one law or one kind of law. These are 10 to 20 amendments to European directives. This includes the Return Directive on the Qualifications Directive, the Reform on resettlement, the Directive on reception conditions for asylum seekers, the new Asylum Procedure Directive and the reform of Eurodac. You name it. All these things have stopped. They're blocked. There are either legal problems or political or ideological problems. The European Council is not even affected. There are major contradictions of faith between the Eastern European Visegrad countries, which are in favour of a very strict and more right-wing approach and, on the other hand, countries such as Greece and Italy, which naturally want migrants to travel. They don't want them to have to take everyone. There is therefore still Western Europe, which, above all, provides a story of fair distribution of asylum seekers across all European Member States, but each time receives a veto from the countries of Eastern Europe, which simply do not want to take over asylum seekers. That has been going on for years now and I have been able to listen to these discussions for years in all these European meetings. You may do so now, Mrs De Block has done so for years, but no progress has actually been made at European level. That is not my fault, nor Mrs De Block's, nor yours, Mr Mahdi, that is a statement. We just can't get out and that's very problematic. What I find striking is that the Prime Minister could have said so much about asylum and migration and he only said two sentences about it, which are still about European policy. The European policy, which is completely blocked and insane. I find it remarkable that he chooses to do so. "With strong external borders", niets is minder waar. Mr Mahdi, you yourself have taken a number of initiatives over the past year and over the last few months and made a number of announcements. On the one hand, you have said how much you support the European Migration Pact. I've heard you make a passionate plea about it many times. You keep saying that it will come, that it is what we need and what needs to be done. You say that we will screen people quickly and efficiently at the external borders of the European Union. Those are the frontières extérieurs solid, I suppose. You know I have a very different opinion on that. We have been trying to screen quickly and efficiently at the external borders since 2015 with the creation of the hotspots. I just can't. One of the main reasons why it doesn't work is that the border countries in the south, especially Italy and Greece, do not want it to work that efficiently. Greece has already received more than EUR 1 billion in grants from Europe to develop a decent asylum system, but it is still a complete mess. Then there are two things to think about. Either they don't get their stuff organized because Greece is just a complete failed state, or there is a conscious agenda. I actually think it's a combination of both. It is certainly also intended to slow things down very slowly so that people can travel to other Member States in Europe in desperation. Because in Greece it's a complete soup. That is my opinion, you have a different opinion. You do believe that asylum applications and appeal procedures in countries such as Italy and Greece will be efficiently completed in the short term. To this end, you say, a first major step has been taken with the creation of a fully-fledged European Asylum Office. However, EASO has been in existence for years and is now being upgraded. More people are coming to work who will take over from the countries on the external border. I have two questions. You say that this shortens the procedures. How much shorter have the procedures become as a result? I would like to have an overview of this so that we can agree on it, and this can also be done in committee. Secondly, what about the appeal? Is the appeal included in the EASO procedure at the external border, or does the appeal remain in the hands of the courts of the Member States themselves? Does the RVV of Greece and Italy remain competent? I was once allowed to meet the head of the RVV of Italy. That man did not seem to me to feel the sense of urgency that many government members and parliamentarians in Western Europe feel, I can tell you. I don't know if he's still in charge, but that was a special experience. In any case, you remain committed to the fact that the European Migration Pact will change things. In addition, you said about the second major pain, the return story, that one of the major problems is the unwillingness of countries of origin to take back their illegal nationals. That is what European visa sanctions are for. You promised it by the summer. We're already a piece in the fall and nothing has come into the house yet. Do you have any idea of any progress there? As you know, I believe that until the French presidential elections are over, it will be very difficult to make progress on migration at European level, because France simply does not want to do so at the moment. They want to avoid interference with the presidential campaign that will be carried out there at the sharpest of cuts, with many cannons on the right who make very far-reaching proposals: a stop to family reunification, the reduction of the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights when it comes to judgments affecting the sovereignty of the French state, especially as regards migration and border control. Those aren't soft things. Is there any progress to be expected? I also read in Knack that you sent an angry letter, with a number of colleagues, to your Greek colleague in the Dublin procedure. It is therefore a question of returning asylum seekers who have entered Greece, who have issued fingerprints, re-apply for asylum here and then have to go back to Greece altogether. That's not gonna work. Your letter would have fallen on a cold stone in Athens, I read in Knack. Is that right? Could you give me a little more explanation about that? What are you going to do now to ensure that this Dublin return to Greece can still work somewhat? Because, of course, that is a very important country of arrival in the European Union, illegal arrival, by way of transit and transit? You are launching a distress campaign to combat secondary migratory flows, including saying that we do not need to come because we will apply the Dublin Regulation very strictly. You can, however, even for people from Greece who do not apply the Dublin Regulation, while Greece and Italy are two very important countries of entry. At least that's annoying. I would like to have some explanation in that regard. In addition, you have already made a number of promises, but in practice we see very few of them. You supported, among other things, the international plea against the return stop to Afghanistan. That was remarkable. Three days and a lot of trouble within the government later you got zero on the reeks. Your Green and Ecolo colleagues did not agree with you at all. The situation had, of course, changed considerably. The Taliban were already at Kabul Airport. They took over the capital, and there was no return. You tried to use that letter to show your strength, but you got the lid on the nose. In addition, you have launched a number of other things. I would like to take this into account and ask you about the state of play. You said that there would be two new closed return centres for illegal immigrants. I questioned you about this last year in connection with the budget. I had already questioned Mr Michel about this because he is responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. He was able to tell me that these centres would no longer open in this legislature. Neither. You were shocked and said that you would consult with Mr Michel. You would try to tinker with the timing so that it couldn't succeed. My question is what's going on with that? Is that gonna work? Will these two closed return centres for illegal immigrants still open in this legislature? In addition, at some point you have advocated compulsory vaccination in the asylum centres and the closed centres for illegal immigrants. I believe that there is no compulsory vaccination in these centres. You launched that piste, but it didn't work either. At some point, during the Afghanistan crisis, you also said that the EU-Turkey deal should be extended to Afghans. I was able to talk to Mr De Vriendt about this in this matter. I asked him how he felt about that, and he didn't agree. Then what is your position? Will the EU-Turkey deal be extended to Afghans or is the will of Green Law? You've announced a lot of things. At some point, you've pleaded for residential admission to light. You went to the nuclear cabinet with that. Mr Gilkinet of Ecolo immediately tweeted "No pasarán." That too was a painful moment. So, what's the deal with living in the light? Is there gonna be any of that? I cannot make that clear from Mr De Croo's two sentences. At some point, you said there was a problem with the forced return. People refused a corona test, and without a negative corona test, they couldn't be returned. A system should be found whereby the removal of a corona test is required for illegal immigrants who refuse to cooperate and thus block their repatriation. It is amazing that people in a closed centre refuse such a test, so that the airline or the home country does not accept them. After all, they can have corona. Such a test cannot be required either. So there is a big problem in the closed centres. You want to make that mandatory, but the left side of the government immediately reacted that this would not happen. There is also a policy of announcement, but in practice nothing has come of it. Are you still working on that? Did you come up with an alternative to that? What will you do with that? Is the problem of refusing the corona test really still an acute problem in the centers? The returns are dramatic. This has partly to do with corona and partly with the fact that international air traffic has been very difficult, but that they are not the only causes. What about the return to Morocco? The return to Morocco has been very difficult for a year and a half. Can you confirm that? Has there been a return to Morocco? If so, can you explain more about that? In the meantime, has that file been solved? Have you made diplomatic efforts to this end? What's the status? After all, Morocco is a very important country in terms of return, as you know. A lot of people of Moroccan origin are illegally staying on our territory. That is, of course, a serious line through your and our account, a serious line through the whole system. It's not nice for us to read. I'd like to get a little more explanation about that. I read this weekend that the French Minister for the Interior, Mr Darmanin, is absolutely not satisfied with the Belgian transit migration approach. He said that 50% of all transit migrants traveling to Great Britain via Belgium enter France. He also announced stricter border controls. You then published a Belga message in which you said you wanted a European solution. Mrs Verlinden said that she doesn't think this is a way of working together, that she doesn't think this is a collective thing and that this is not a good neighborhood to put it that way. I have heard in the corridors of the Rue de la Loi that there has been a consultation with the French colleague. Can you confirm that? Were you there? What's gonna happen now? Are you going to intertwine your approach to transit migrants now? What are you gonna do with that? I'll have a few more questions about the hunger strikers later. I have a dozen points on which you have made many statements over the past year, made proposals and launched cases, but for which you have repeatedly been given zero. A number of things are not entirely in your hands. It is not your fault that there are French presidential elections, which will be very controversial, and that France is currently shutting down the European story so that you do not bring in the European visa sanctions. That's not your fault, I know. It might have been wiser to communicate with a little more caution and not promise so much in committee by the summer of 2021. I think it's important to know what's going on. Finally, before I turn to some punctual questions about the evacuation and the hunger strike, I would like to talk about the asylum reception crisis. I find it very remarkable that the Prime Minister did not mention it in his speech. I understand the asylum centres are really full. You launched a call to all the mayors. I got it, too. You are asking for additional places to be created. You also wrote to all the real estate agencies or real estate agents asking if they still have room. As I understand it, therefore, the need is particularly great. You received EUR 471 million as initial asylum collection budget for 2021. I spoke to you on that at the time. That is the highest budget ever in Belgium's history. As an initial budget, that was never higher. My question is, is that yours? A second budgetary control is planned for this year, if I am not mistaken. An adjustment of the budget is therefore still on the way. Did your cabinet ask for budgets for this? Will you receive 471 million euros for this year? What about the creation of extra places in the asylum shelter? Are you concerned that there will be no room for people, or is there no problem for the time being? How do you see it? How high was the influx in the month of September? Do you have any figures on that, probably? Could you give us some more information on that? Finally, two more questions on the hunger strike. I asked Mr Laaouej a question during the debate. I asked him if he thinks that the hunger striker's file should be dealt with as a matter of priority by your administration. I have already asked you twenty written questions about this. I find it strange that I am asking for a lot of figures and that you say that you cannot give them yet but will give full transparency to Parliament. I find that strange, because if I ask for the nationality of the hunger strikers, for example, you must have an overview of that. After all, when a file comes in, it is recorded immediately what nationality is. According to the parliamentary procedure, the questioner must be given the first answer. The answer should not be given when you make a report available to the Chamber. I don't think that's how it works. In my opinion, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber are different. But we are not going to fight that out here, I will bring that up in committee. If I understand correctly, there are currently around 400 humanitarian regularisation files. Are these dossiers being dealt with as a matter of priority and are they at the top of the pile of several hundred people - or even a few thousand in connection with Article 9a? Can you explain that? You've also noticed that the former hunger strikers are extremely nervous. At present they are still in the Begijnhof church and are already threatening a new hunger strike. The government has had many difficult moments, which is its own rule, but in the past year perhaps the most difficult moment was when Minister Dermagne declared to the public that the PS would withdraw its ministers from the government, if a dead man fell on that hunger strike. Of course, everyone would hate and regret a dead man. Ecolo-Groen joined the PS by saying that a breakthrough had to be made as soon as possible, as the situation got completely out of hand. Ecolo-Green also had fundamental problems with the approach. At that time I understood that these dossiers would be dealt with as a matter of priority. Is it true that these files are now being dealt with as a matter of priority? If so, when do you expect the outcome of those applications? You sent me that on 4 October there are some 390 files pending for the 9a procedure. You say you haven't given any new instructions, so there are no new elements. In the corridors I hear that there are a lot of Maghreb files, from Algeria and, above all, from Morocco. It seems to me that there is very little chance that a Moroccan 9bis dossier will be approved. Often these people haven't gone through a lot of procedures at all and they haven't been here that long. Therefore, even on the basis of the long-stay criterion, applications cannot be accepted and I do not see what criteria they are eligible for. You're saying you're not giving any new instructions. If that's true, all the files get a no. If all asylum seekers receive a no in a few days or weeks, there is a good chance that they will resume their hunger strike. Of course, this is going to be a particularly delicate moment in the whole government story here, because they remain very militant. You've always communicated fairly clearly about the hunger strikers. You have always said that you cannot make exceptions, because if you do that, the gate of the dam is and the number of hunger strikers will increase from 400 to 4,000 in two months. That is also the line that Mrs De Block has always followed. If I'm not mistaken, there were crane occupancys at some point. So that went a lot further. With these very heavy, deep-human strategies, they are actually trying to blackmail the government to persuade it to deviate from the line, to set aside the law and yet to give papers. Yesterday I took note of Mr Laaouj's speech. It was a very interesting debate, and the only thing his party asks of the Secretary of State is to gain more understanding for the hunger striker, who does not just start with that action, but does so in complete despair, as a desperation act. That's how I understood it yesterday. If it's not right, someone can always improve me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u40	Mr President, he did say that, but he also said that the legislation in this area was and should be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u41	But with flexibility had to be interpreted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u42	I don't want to interpret contra legem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u43	I'm trying to get to the point. My point is this. If it is true, as the Secretary of State has told me, also publicly in the committee, that no new instruction has actually been given to the administration on how to deal with the 9bis files, and if what I hear is true, namely that there are a lot of Maghreb files in the 400 files of people who have not been in Belgium for so long, then the Foreign Affairs Office cannot allow that regularization. If that is not possible, on the basis of the current instructions, which have been in place for years, then they will be very satisfied and start a hunger strike again. They're already threatening to do that. If they start over, they may not be 400, but 800, and then the government has a big problem. I think so. That's my point. My question is very specific whether these files will be dealt with as a matter of priority by your administration, according to the principle of burden in, first out? As for the evacuation, I was shocked by something I just read. It is about an Afghan interpreter who has always worked with the Dutch army, as part of the NATO operation there for many years. The Dutch effort was greater than ours, but we have always made a significant contribution to something that has actually completely failed, namely nation building, but we will not talk about that now. We have done so, and I have always supported it. That's something to learn. I still do not know how to deal with it in Mali, for example, but that is not for this thematic discussion. According to a Belga message today, there are still 60 Afghans who have worked with the Belgian army. "For 45 Afghan ex-workers of Belgium, those are people who have always helped our military personnel and 63 people who are at risk, there is no Belgian evacuation plan on the table," De Tijd wrote on Thursday. It concerns former employees of Defense and, among other things, human rights defenders. The Belgian evacuation list still contains 442 people. They are divided into four categories: Belgians, people with a valid residence permit, people who have worked for Belgium and people who are at risk. For the first two groups, the evacuation is underway. Belgium uses Qatari flights departing from Kabul airport. Qatar, however, only allows Belgians or holders of a Belgian residence permit on the plane. The two other categories, former workers and people at risk, should therefore not be included as passengers. Those 108 people have to choose: either they wait in Afghanistan, or they take a land route to Pakistan to register with the Belgian embassy. However, Belgium discourages the latter option because the border area is too dangerous. Today I read that an Afghan interpreter who has always helped the Dutch army was executed in Afghanistan. So we still have 45 people in such a situation who are stuck in Afghanistan. Apparently, we can't get it here. But there are about 300 other people on the ground, including a number of Belgians, countrymen, but also a number of people with a Belgian residence permit. This category of people is foreigners, not Belgians, and they are therefore within your jurisdiction, Mr Secretary of State. How many of these people are recognised refugees or otherwise protected? That is the point on which much commotion has arisen. As you know, I find it difficult to deal with people who go against the rules and are then evacuated as a matter of priority and are even given priority to our interpreters and fixers who have helped NATO or the Belgian Defence Year and Day. I think that's horrible. Do you have any figures on this? In recent days I have received answers to written questions. I still find it hard for recognised refugees to come along with this evacuation and even bring their partner without a right of residence. It's supposed to be about 20 people. These people should never have been there and have also managed to circumvent the procedure of family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u44	Mr Francken, I would like to respond to what you have said because you have referred several times to my party. We are here for the government statement and for the budget debate. In a long speech, you mentioned a lot of issues relating to asylum and migration, which we can discuss in committee. You referred first to the European Migration Pact. I share your concern about European migration policy. That needs to be better arranged. Today we see pushbacks at the external borders. The Dublin Agreement needs to be revised. That's at his limit. There are problems with Greece. Relocation is also necessary and so on. We need to work on the European Asylum and Migration Pact. We must work together on this as part of Europe. I'm less cynical than you are. It's gonna be really hard. Nor should we wait to have our own asylum and migration policy as a country. This government is committed to getting our own legislation in order. We improve our own legislation on asylum and migration. You started that project yourself, but that has not yet been completed. So this government wants to work on a new migration code so that we can have better and simplified rules that are clarified. That is a very important work for this coalition. On the one hand, we say that the European external borders must be protected, and we are not in favour of uncontrolled migration. Your party sometimes sketches the doom of open borders. Everyone agrees on that. On the other hand, there is the right to international protection. That's the whole problem. How can people fleeing war and seeking international protection for political persecution be in a position to apply for asylum? We have to face the fact that these two things are in contradiction. You also say that people must be able to apply for asylum. People on the run from war have the right to seek security. The theme of security is still very important for your party. I think so, too. People in war situations who feel unsafe should have the right to go to safer places and to obtain asylum if they are entitled to it. Then they find escape routes and try to get that safety. Then you refer to the situation on the Greek islands, Lampedusa and rightly so. That is today's reality. People come to Europe this way. Even when they arrive here, they have to wait for years in an asylum procedure on the Greek islands. It's not idyllic out there, they're closed refugee camps. The current Greek Government is doing everything it can to make the conditions there as difficult as possible. We see the famous deterrent effect there in practice, with all the consequences for the human rights of people and also children who spend years in the camps. That's what I'm really worried about. It is therefore important that consideration be given at European level to doing so in a better way. You say that the European Commission is working on this and putting forward measures. In your opinion, the European Parliament is much more left-wing than the European Commission, because they want more human rights. I have heard you say that, and I wonder if you say that the right is not a defender of human rights. Don't you think human rights are important? That's something our party stands for. Human rights must be respected and we continue to insist on this. You say the migration debate is a poisoned debate. That's right. I agree with you on that. When Greens talk, it is often caricatured when we are in favour of open borders. Then it'll be a poisoned debate. It is therefore important that political leaders conduct the debate in a serene manner. You know a lot and have a lot of expertise and I sometimes appreciate your knowledge in this area, but I think your party should look in its own bosom when it comes to how you use migration, including electoral, to score with it. Recently, I had a run-in with Mrs Safai in committee. After a debate in which I asked Belgian IS fighters who had been guilty of enslaving Jezidis and looking for testimonies of Jezidis victims, I then saw on Twitter that Mrs Safai posted a video saying that Green advocated impunity for IS fighters. I find it unbelievable how your party can sometimes pull things off. We say that women and children of IS fighters must leave these camps and come here and that if they have committed slavery and genocide on Jezidi and on other crimes, they must be tried. That's the plea I made, and you, Mrs Safai, took it all out of context on Twitter. Are you talking about a poisoned debate? Look into your own bosom. I'd like to talk about the hunger strikers and the undocumented people. Mr Francken, you also mentioned the people without papers and the hunger strike at the beginning of the summer. It's not because my party says it's a problem, it's not because we recognize the problem that those people are in our society, that we say they all need papers. That's two separate cases. Moreover, I have always argued in committee for a structural solution for people without papers. I did not advocate preferential treatment for the hunger strikers. We have to recognise that there are a lot of people in our society without papers and that they need structural solutions. Recently there was a great series on television, Children of Migration, about labour migration. It outlined how Belgium dealt with labour migration after the war. We see that at the beginning we did not pay much attention to their working conditions and living conditions. We have invested very little in guidance in integration. That is a point that your party often cites. We have not invested enough in integration. The programme also clarifies the history of how our country deals with labour migration. I fear that the way in which we used to deal with migrant workers is now repeating ourselves for people in irregular residence. Their situation deserves a debate on how we deal with it. In this sense, I expect a great deal from the announced inter-ministerial conferences on migration and integration and on work. We must have this debate in those conferences with the Länder. It is a problem which deserves a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u45	Mrs Platteau, you are talking about IS widows, IS terrorists and impunity. What we have today is indeed impunity for those IS women. They've been actively repatriated by your government. You were in favour of that. You've done that for the children, so to speak. However, these women are here today and they will receive a maximum of five years in prison, after which they will be released after two or three years or perhaps earlier. Is that what you call punishment? Then you have the wrong idea of what punishments are for terrorists who have gone from here to there several times, to fight against you, against the West and against our civilisation. You call that punishment. I don't recognize that as punishment. I've never seen that video...you've just argued against me several times on the committee and pleaded for the Jezidis. You cannot defend the rights of the IS fighters to bring them here and bring them here, and at the same time claim to stand up for the Jezidis. If you just think a little bit about what they have been through and about the genocide that we have all unanimously approved and acknowledged, then you would never say that the IS women should be brought here to just walk the streets of the West again after two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u46	Mrs Platteau, I would like to replicate a number of things. First of all, you call me cynical. I'm not cynical, I'm realistic. My tone may sound a little cynical, but let's just say it's sarcasm at best. I've seen a few things in the last 21 years, especially in recent years, on migration. Secondly, you say you will continue to believe in it. I don't. That's not gonna work, that can't work, that's never gonna work. Not with the current Member States, not with the current political climate. Not with the way the system works. This return is never properly organized, is it not because these countries do not cooperate, or because there are so many appeals. Am I against human rights? Of course not. But there are limits. If we allow it to be operational, in practice, it is no longer feasible, then I think that we should also discuss the rights of the people who are here, the host society. They never pay attention to that, it seems. Because when I look at, among other things, the election results in Flanders, I think a lot of people are just giving the signal to say: look at us too, this cannot be the intention! So I am absolutely not against human rights, but, as with everything else in life, there must be a balance. That's what it's about, of course. When I see what kind of discourse sometimes takes place in the LIBE Committee and what applause that gives, among other things from your group, I fall back steeply. Because that is the de facto organisation of the open border. You are in favour of a directive banning the imprisonment of families with children and banning this for all minors everywhere, so that they can be given better papers. If they are not finally removed, one will of course get a system where it just rotates completely square. Sometimes I get the impression that you want so much sand in that engine from the return story that the engine itself breaks. I sometimes get that impression when I follow the debates in the LIBE Committee. I don't know if you do, but I do. That is why you are not your colleagues: colleagues from your group, but certainly from the Communist Group. That's just crazy. One can say: everyone's opinion, we live in a democracy, the organised disagreement in a peaceful way, and let's keep it that way. But I'm thinking about mine. So please don't come up with a story like "Are you against human rights?" Of course I am not against human rights, what complete nonsense. I am absolutely 100 percent in favour of human rights, but I am also in favour of putting into practice, for getting some things operational, such as applying legislation. A person who is not allowed to stay here should normally return to his country, but is now ordered to leave the territory that he does not apply. 95% stays de facto here. It's a complete disaster. We must then move on to a story in which a forced return is made. That's expensive and difficult. We've already had a terrible trauma with Semira Adamu, and nobody wants to go through that again. Not me, not Maggie, not Patrick, not Sammy. No one wants that, but that's not the point, of course. You still have to get it operationalized. It's just getting harder and harder. That is the reality. So your return will never be resolved. This is already a major problem of the European Migration Pact. Secondly, a rapid asylum procedure in Greece? Yeah, right. It'll take four years. What's fast? Everything is relative in life, but if it lasts four years, wouldn't you travel on yourself if you were a Syrian refugee? You'd do the same yourself. I would, too. I wouldn't stay. They themselves organize their system so badly that no one stays. You shouldn't be naive about that either. We have already given EUR 1 billion to improve the operation of asylum services in Greece. Where'd all that money go? In Italy, it's worse. Colleagues, what we need is a paradigmashift. I support the Geneva Convention, which may even be updated, but 190 signatories will never do so, and I am realistic in that too. So we're gonna have to do it with that convention, which is what it is. There is no problem with the international protection of genuine refugees, but we will not do so on European territory. We won't do that anymore. In my view, these people are all protected, at least the real refugees, but not rewarded for the illegal journey they are taking to the European continent. We don't do that anymore. We're gonna stop doing that. This is the only way to comply with the Geneva Convention, but at last we can stop illegal migration and illegal smuggling, the billions of smuggling and the inhuman drowning in the Mediterranean. That's the model we have to follow. Should we send a gay from Ghana back to Ghana? Of course not. If we know someone's gonna get hanged because he's gay, we're obviously not gonna send him back. Should we send a Syrian back to Syria? Should we send an Afghan back to Afghanistan? No. We must offer these people international protection, but we will no longer reward them for their illegal journey to our continent. We don't do that anymore. In return, we can show our hearts by letting people who are in reception facilities in neighbouring countries, such as Jordan and Turkey, enter a resettlement programme through a UNHCR programme. That's how you show your heart, but you're finally fighting illegal smuggling. That is my model, and it exists and works efficiently. It won't be perfect, because there are still land and sea borders, there will always be holes in the system. But it's gonna be way better than what we've been going through for ten or twenty years, and it's gonna get worse, worse, worse... That's the alternative I like to put on the table. I'll always be knocking on that nail. Sooner or later the eyes will open. If it isn't now, maybe after the French presidential election. It's gonna have to come from a big country, but it's definitely gonna come from. With regard to the Migration Code, you say that the European story is very difficult, but that you will reform the code so that you do not remain in the bag. And you say I didn't get that either, and that's right. I hope we can do it now. I understand that this is actually a codification of the Migration Code. This means that it becomes more readable and legally better adapted; that a number of houses are being demolished, so that you get some kind of house. Structurally, however, this will not solve anything in the area of asylum migration. Your asylum story is for a piece in European directives and transpositions. Here and there, maybe you can turn a button. However, it has never been the intention of the Migration Code to regulate the problem of illegal migration flows. You may only be able to improve some procedures. Not everything Mr Mahdi has done is bad. I welcome the fact that he has stopped the suspensive nature of a number of appeals procedures. There are also good things in the transposition of the Student Directive, but also a number of less good things. Not everything was bad the last year. The Migration Code will certainly not be the miracle solution to what people are going through every day, being illegal migration and all the difficulties that this entails. The solution must come from Europe and that is where it is completely blocked. The progress there happens with mouse steps. As far as legislation is concerned, I have put forward some 30 legislative proposals. Ten of them have already been voted off. There is therefore nothing going on in this area for, for example, a tightening of family reunification legislation, especially when it comes to the procedure and the period for, inter alia, family members of recognised refugees and, in the alternative, protected. You say there is an interesting series going on, namely Children of Migration. I agree that we have worked too little on integration. I would once again call on colleagues, including the Brussels politicians, to work at last on a compulsory course d'intégration in Brussels. That has finally been approved. In two years we celebrate twenty years of Flemish integration policy. That's a success story. It has been very difficult to convince the French speakers of this. This was adopted in 2017 or 2019, but has not yet been implemented. So there is still no compulsory course in Brussels. It is necessary to work on this at last. It would certainly help. It should have been done more in the past, but we weren't even born by then. This concerns the large migratory wave of the 1950s and 1960s. Actually, that can't be compared to what's going on right now. You make the comparison with illegal migration. You say that things would have been better if, for example, we had better integrated the Turkish community into the mines. In fact, the Turkish miners of that time are the illegal immigrants of today. NGOs and trade unions also often ask to give illegal immigrants papers. After all, they look for so many hands, especially in bottleneck professions. It's not that simple. It's much harder than that. I have submitted a written question to gauge how many of the 400 people in 9bis who have now submitted a regularisation dossier have ever had a work visa. The answer was zero if I'm not mistaken. So these are not groups that have a lot of experience in bottleneck occupations and have received training. That is absolutely not the case. That doesn't mean these people can't do anything. Some of those people clean in the hospitality at night. Some of those people are working effectively. They even exchange identity cards in order to be able to work at interim offices. That's poignant. That is something that needs to be resolved. The comparison with the fully legal and desirable migration flows in the 1960s, including to Limburg, but also to the Liège steel industry, simply does not apply. Twenty years from now, we can discuss how that has evolved. Well, then maybe you're right. Then I'll admit it, too. When is this first inter-ministerial conference going on? Do you have a visual on that yet? What's on the agenda? I have already spoken to Mr Jambon about this. I'm curious. I think it is necessary to raise a number of points. I was also in the meeting about the ISIS fighters and the impunity. I don't think you should underestimate how strongly the emotions of a certain part of the population live that the penalty is far too low. By the way, the government is paying EUR 1.3 million, which is an unlikely amount of money, to actively repatriate them and have them tried here. I am talking not only about the sentence, but also about the execution of the sentence. You may also have read the striking example of one of the IS women in Vilvoorde, Mr Mahdi's city. Mr Bonte also said that he could not understand that. I think she had an anklet for three or four months and was in prison for one or two months. I think she's even out of an anklet right now. She's been effective for five years. I do not doubt your sincerity when you say that additional research must be carried out into what happened to the Jezidi. Bruno Struys and a number of other journalists have made a very nice series of them. Questions have been asked. It is really being done, Mr Van Quickenborne has also promised. We'll see. This is in the hands of the court. That's a piece of independence. I do not doubt your sincerity, but you cannot ignore the fact that many people are wondering whether the punishment is proportionate to the actions that have been committed. The longer it's been, the more there is of what has happened in Syria and Iraq. That causes a lot of discontent and emotion about impunity. That is a very important element in the whole debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u47	Madam President, I would also like to join the debate on the IS fighters. We have always believed that the IS gangsters should be tried and punished in the region where they have committed crimes. I think it is more than clear that there is no place for those who have openly turned their backs on society and have literally and figuratively stood for life in this country. That was also the attitude of the government until 4 March. Then the government said she would only bring children back. At that time, we warned that the mothers would take advantage of it in order to be able to return. It is a very bizarre turn of events, because the government has even tried lawsuits to prevent these mothers from returning. On 4 March, Prime Minister De Croo replied here in Question Time that the Belgian Government is prepared, on a case-by-case basis, to bring these mothers back. The reason given for that was that it would be safer to bring them here. I'm not even going to repeat the argument about impunity, the faint sentences and the ankle bracelets. The reasoning was that we can follow them here and that they disappear under the radar. The interest of the child was also one of the arguments cited. I have a very simple question. In fact, I have never received an answer to this, but I have asked several ministers on several occasions. For the male IS terrorists, this government would still seek trial in the region where they committed crimes. What if it turns out that a trial in that region is not possible? That's an argument that was also used for the mothers. What if it turns out that they want to return in the best interests of the child? I never got an answer to that. Since one suddenly turned the cart in relation to the mothers, there is a chance that this government will also turn the cart in relation to the male IS fighters. I have received from no one in the government, despite repeated demands, a guarantee that the men will not be brought to this country. I have not received any guarantees on this, and that does not reassure me. All the more so because I have never received answers to my questions about the criteria on which decisions will be taken, on a case-by-case basis, which IS mother will be recalled. In that case, the question was whether they had meanwhile renounced IS ideology, but even that was not confirmed by the Minister. Never mind that I was given an answer on how that criterion would be assessed in concrete terms. I must congratulate the Greens. They've made the government change their shoulder in this rifle. Those mothers are being brought back, unfortunately, at great expense to the taxpayer. I really want to know your point of view. Why is the argument of the child's importance and the argument that it is safer that they are not under the radar abroad, for mothers and not for male IS fighters? I don't like to distinguish between men and women. Your party is also showing off not to do so, so I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u48	Madam President, I understand that there are members of parliament who, in addition to the thematic discussion on asylum and migration, would like to have other discussions on other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u49	My speech was addressed to Mr van Groen, who raised the issue of the IS fighters. So that was a logical question about her reasoning. However, if you give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to take the opportunity first of all to ask him a few questions, Madam President. I said yesterday in the general discussion that I find it very striking that the Prime Minister considered asylum and migration to be worth only two sentences in his government statement. I hope that is not a sign of the government's list of priorities, Mr Secretary of State. I found that very remarkable, because the figures show that the number of asylum applications is increasing again. The precorona level is now almost reached again. I will compare it with figures from 2019, because 2020 was a corona year and I think that comparison would not be correct. From January to August 2019 there were 17,500 asylum applications, during the same period this year there were 15,048 asylum applications. If one leaves out the corona months of 2021 and compares the figures from June to August of both years, there is even an increase of 11% because in 2019 there were 6,500 asylum applications in that period and 7,200 asylum applications in 2021. I do not know if you already have official figures for September, Mr Secretary of State, but they should be available in the near future. If I am not mistaken, you dropped the figure of 3,000 asylum applications in the press at the beginning of October. Assuming these 3,000 applications, this is also an increase of 12% compared to two years before. So there's still a huge influx. Applications within the EU are also rising. The migration influx and the asylum crisis have never been removed from the agenda. I was disappointed, therefore, that the only thing the Prime Minister had to say about it was that he looked at the European Union like a pontius pilate. It is the European Union that must protect the external borders and we must do so. Of course, these external borders must be protected, but we all know how well the European Union has managed this migration policy over the past few decades. You know that we do not expect you to wait for the European Union to do so. I know that you are one of the few who believes in this EU migration pact. We are not so naive that we expect much benefit from it. I'd like to hear an explanation from you. Can you explain why, when it comes to unaccompanied minors or unaccompanied minors, Belgium is the most popular country in Europe for that group. Do you have an explanation for that? Why are 1 in 5 of these applications in this country? I would have liked to know. A number of points have already been raised by Mr Francken. I will not repeat them all and certainly not as comprehensive. However, I would like to get the essentials out of it. I miss the ambition, which was not in the coalition agreement either, to tackle this influx. You cannot rely solely on the European Union for this. Let me give you an example. It's something you can do perfectly yourself. We have not heard anything about the conditions for family reunification in the past year, even if it were to bring it into line with the rules of our neighbouring countries. I hope this is still your ambition. After all, limiting inflow is a matter of course. We all know that the Achilles heel is the outflow. It is completely lame and corona has obviously not done any good. However, I do not think it is a good idea to wait for these European visa sanctions. I wonder why this country can't do what other countries can do, such as France, which has decided to announce visa sanctions against three North African countries, why can't France and Belgium, I wonder? I can only congratulate the Greens on the dossier on the admissions to housing. They prevent that necessary measure from happening on all sides, even with your light version, you will not be affected by the Council of Ministers, but if all these matters remain excluded and your master plan for the return centres is not implemented, then you will not be able to pursue an efficient return policy. My colleague, Mr Van Langenhove, has already asked you on a number of occasions about the state of capacity in the closed return centres. You gladly announced that master plan, but then we were told by Secretary of State Michel that these two announced new centres would not be present in this legislature. What is it now? Will they be there, because they're much needed, aren't they? All that remains is the increased commitment to voluntary return. Of course, there is nothing against that in itself. That track has been walked several times in the past and has cost a lot of money, but it didn't exactly turn out to be a success. So the voluntary return will not bring much harm either. Mr Secretary of State, where does your lack of ambition come from to take measures to curb influx? In my reply to the Prime Minister's replies, I referred to Denmark, where the number of asylum applications was brought to the lowest level in 20 years with firm measures. If Denmark can do that, why can't Belgium? I have warned the Prime Minister that many things promised in the government agreement have not been implemented in the past year by several ministers and secretaries of state. I did not see much ambition in the coalition agreement to curb influxes, on return policies and residences, or on the limited integration of families into adapted return units. So you kept your promise, because that ambition was not there at all. I hope you will not break the promise of increasing the capacity of the closed centres. I urge you to stop expressing your hope in the EU migration pact, because either this is a confirmation of some world alienation or, like De Croo, by referring to the EU, one wants to camouflage one's own inability or one's own unwillingness. I feared when this government took office that migration policy would be more of the same. This year, however, I have to say that things are going from evil to worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, as a West Fleming, I am very interested in the file on transmigration. I would like to ask a few questions about the illegal crossing of the Flemish coast, the camera shield of your party colleague and possibly also about the handling centres in West Flanders. In August, a record number of illegal immigrants and transmigrants tried to cross the Channel. We have received the figures: in 2021, more than 12,500 migrants have so far tried to cross the Channel compared to about 8,000 migrants across 2020. This represents an increase of more than half. On the Flemish coast, in the port of Zeebrugge and throughout our province, this increase is noticeable. By mid 2021, more than 3,000 illegal migrants have been counted in this country. Mr. Secretary of State, a few questions about the illegal crossing and the camera shield. In July, the French and British Ministers for the Interior made a series of agreements on new measures to combat illegal migration. For example, many more French police officers will control the French beaches and the UK has promised France more than EUR 60 million to combat migration. France is using soldiers on the beaches to stop the influx and certainly the crossing. We could read that in the media. Are you involved in the conversations with British colleagues? Do you also charge for funds from the United Kingdom for Flanders? What means are we talking about? What are you arguing for? The British Home Secretary wants to discourage people from crossing the Channel by introducing higher prison sentences for smugglers and illegal migrants. Are you an advocate for that, too? Do you also want higher prison sentences for those smugglers and illegal migrants? I mentioned in my introduction the record number of migrants who tried to cross the Channel from France to the United Kingdom in August. This was reported by the British Ministry of the Interior, among other things. For example, more than 800 people spread over thirty small boats tried to make the crossing on Saturday 21 August. French authorities were able to stop nearly 200 people spread over ten boats that same day. The previous record was set on 12 August. Then nearly 600 people tried to cross. So far, more than 12,500 migrants have tried to cross the Channel in 2021, compared to 8,000 migrants by 2020. That is an increase of more than half this year. Mrs Pas spoke just now about the increase in the number of asylum applications. We also see a huge increase in this country in the context of transmigration. Moreover, according to your party colleague, the West Flemish governor, Mr Decaluwe, the additional influx of illegals and refugees from the new humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan must also be taken into account. According to Mr Decaluwé, a large proportion of these refugees are on their way to the United Kingdom. The crossing often takes place from France, but also from the Belgian coast. The port of Zeebrugge is also an important gateway to the United Kingdom. That's an important place for illegals to stay. That is why the West Flemish governor urges the federal government, the Flemish government and also the European Union to invest in thermal cameras along our Flemish coast. These performant cameras can discover the smallest source of heat for miles at sea. The existing radars at our disposal cannot detect them. Customs, environmental inspection and anti-drug teams can use this to detect offences in a very efficient way. Mr Secretary of State, you may know that these boats are not only used to allow illegal immigrants to cross, but also to transport drugs. Then there are two or three birds with one stone. Mr Secretary of State, have you been in contact with the West Flemish governor on this matter? What's the federal government's vision on this thermal camera shield? Is the federal government willing to invest in that camera shield? If so, by what means? Will the federal government consult with the Flemish Government and the European Union on this? Finally, I would like to talk about a processing centre that would be located in West Flanders. I'm glad the Minister of Justice has arrived in the meantime. He has suddenly unpacked in the West Flemish media with a center for illegals in West Flanders. Then your partymate from Jabbeke, Hendrik Bogaert, was shot into a cramp because Mr Van Quickenborne had said that this center might be in Jabbeke. Mr Bogaert immediately gave an interview to the regional TV station Focus-WTV, where he said: "I have been contacted. First, it was about a closed shelter. Now it's something completely different, a more open center, which I suspected. We have absolutely no confidence in being able to organise this properly for Jabbeke." So your own party colleague does not really trust that your government can organise this in a good way for West Flanders, for Jabbeke in particular. Mr Secretary of State, I questioned you about this and you raised a lot of questions. At that time, I noted that our operation was that Members of Parliament were asking questions to the Secretary of State, not the other way around. I would like to quote from your reply at the time: 'What there are plans for is the creation of a new closed centre for the detention of persons in illegal residence in the context of return. That's the existing closed center in Bruges." I suspect you mean shelter De Refuge. However, you know that De Refuge will close, which raises the question of where it will be moved. That question lives in Bruges and by extension throughout West Flanders. You also replied: "The plans around the closed center take shape in the integrated infrastructure plan return. It looks at the most appropriate locations for such closed centres, nor does it intend to have separate closed centres for transit migrants. When transit migrants are eligible for forced removal and are detained as part of it, they, like other illegal residents, are held in a closed center of the Foreign Office. Of course, there must always be a possibility of returning. There is therefore no specific distinction or centre for transit migrants, unlike for others." Mr Secretary of State, what locations are you talking about? Which locations are eligible for the relocation of De Refuge shelter? I come to the end of my speech on transmigration. France and England are finally beginning to take illegal migration seriously, and Belgium remains hopelessly behind trends and developments in this area today. As a result, illegal migration is shifting from the French coast to our Flemish coast. While France is using police officers and extra soldiers to guard the French beaches, it is unfortunately mopping with the crane open for our police. That can't be for Flemish interest. For us, the illegals on the Flemish coast and elsewhere in Flanders wandering around must be traced. A country like this that ultimately tolerates illegality on its territory cannot call itself the rule of law. Illegality is and remains a form of crime for us. A firm approach is therefore required. Those illegals must not only be arrested, they must also be locked up. Not only the Flemish Interest, but also the local mayors are asking for a solution, such as a clear center assigned to those illegals, so that they can be detained if they are arrested, pending expulsion from the country. Those mayors complain daily or almost weekly that these people are getting a piece of paper today with the friendly request whether they would be so kind as to leave the territory. As far as we are concerned, that is not serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u51	Second attempt. Thank you colleagues for your many questions in a broader budget debate. It's always good to talk about migration. This is a very important issue. Most of the questioners referred to the Prime Minister's intervention. That's good, Mrs. Pas, just to be clear. They are all of the opinion that it is striking that the Prime Minister on migration only speaks of Europe. Everyone is talking three quarters of their time about everything except Belgian migration policy. You are talking about European cooperation, international cooperation, return policy at European level. Then we are talking about visa sanctions, Eurodac, the Reception Directive, and I can go on like this. It was a long time ago about the piece that the Prime Minister was right to put in. I am very pleased to note that you, too, have noted that the Prime Minister in his speech raises a very important aspect of Asylum and Migration, namely the importance of European cooperation and the importance of international cooperation. He also mentioned the importance of the European external borders. Of course, everything starts there. It all starts there because we are Belgium in the European Union and not Canada or Australia. I have said this a few times in other locations and with other people. I sometimes dream of being Justin Trudeau. He's a beautiful man with hip socks. And he occasionally brings a message that I think is a very positive and voluntaristic person. If Mr Trudeau says that he is going to receive 20 000 people every year, I think it is right, in a country that has four times as many inhabitants and is so much larger than Belgium, it is easy to say that compared to any European country. It is very easy when one sits on the other side of the ocean. We are doomed to work at European level, but we must also place our hopes on something. The alternative to European cooperation and to grey hair of European cooperation are empty store shelves and miles of traffic at a pumping station. Colleagues of Flemish Interest, you're getting a little frustrated. Mr Francken, I think you too. I remember a tweet in which you said that the British, now that they are from the European Union, could have a good laugh with the European Union. Smile with empty store shelves and pumping stations. I don't think there's anyone who's been sitting at a gas station in Britain for hours laughing in his car.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u52	To my knowledge, there is broad support for the Brexit with the British. It's their democratic choice. If the question were put again, there would be confirmation of that choice. That is their democratic choice. It's not yours, but you have nothing to say about it. I have nothing to say on this either, I have an opinion on it but I do not have a say in it. The British have recovered a piece of sovereignty in various areas. There is generally satisfaction about this. If there were another referendum tomorrow, the Brexiteers would make it again. I find it easy to take out one thing to say it was wrong. That may be your judgment. But I think the British can decide for themselves. Britain is a rather independent country, with a very quirky population. I have great respect for the British. I've had good contacts with it for many years. The British also remain a member of NATO and fulfil their international peacekeeping commitments more than we do. Among other things in the fight against terror, for example IS, or for the Jezidis, the British do more. I also mention the evacuation operation from Afghanistan. Today they have announced that they will help 1,000 more people. As Mr De Roover said to the Prime Minister, I think it is somewhat inappropriate to always take the account of an ally who has been very close to us for so many years. In economic terms, this is a partner with which we do a lot of business. There is always an account to compare how good we are in the European Union. I suggest we solve our own problems first, before making the British account. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u53	Mr Francken, please allow me to speak about the European Union. We are aware that we are part of a European Union. Everyone has an opinion on this, although I am very curious about the opinions in the future. I find frustration among all the speakers about the slow process of the European Union. We are all in agreement on this. It's extremely slow, too slow. The European Union has experienced a refugee crisis in 2015 and 2016, the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War, but during that period it has failed to come up with the necessary major reforms with sufficient sense of urgency. I can determine that with you, that's not difficult, that's right. The question arises as to what we are doing about it. How can we ensure that Europe does what we expect of Europe? We can see what is not going well or too slowly, not progressing, about who is blocking where, but that has improved the life of no Fleming or Belgian. What can we do to ensure that migration policies at European level are better, more controlled, more humane and stronger than current policies? For there is nothing humane about people who spend months wandering from one country to another, who apply for asylum in different countries, who spend months in procedures to finally hear no. European asylum and migration policy must therefore be improved, changed and reformed. Europe is doing a number of things that one must want to see and believe in. Am I the only one who still believes in Europe? I hope I am not the only one who still believes in European cooperation. I hope I'm not the only one who doesn't believe that if a country wants to do it alone, it'll be better, because it doesn't. We've all seen that. The corona pandemic has taught us that if we close our borders in the fight against a virus, we will have economic consequences. We need cooperation. I don't think anyone's questioning that. So the question is how we can achieve a better policy. The European Union has already made progress in some areas. Again, for the thousandth time, too slow, but when EASO is realized, that is a first element. Then there is an agency at European level with a pool of experts who can react quickly when pressure comes on certain countries, such as Greece. I went to Greece with my colleague, Mr Wilmès, and there too the Greeks have indicated that, thanks to the European Union, these procedures are much faster. They are no longer as slow as in the past, in times of crisis. This is supposed to be the case everywhere, always and structurally. In this respect, EASO is a first important step. Is EASO enough? Shall we make it through that? No, of course not. Symbolically, however, it is important that we step out of philosophy that it is all or nothing. As several colleagues have rightly pointed out, the European Asylum and Migration Pact is not a single document, not a single directive that needs to be changed. This includes the Reception Directive, which needs to be adapted to ensure that those who already have refugee status in one country are no longer taken care of in another country when knocking on the door and applying for asylum. This is a problem which we know very well in Belgium too. Eurodac is the next step on the agenda, alongside the EASO. This should ensure a better exchange of biometric information on persons migrating from one European country to another. It is important that we make progress there. Of course, we're not gonna get through that alone. Belgium has asked for a simulation exercise. A number of countries can do even better at European level than what we do: speak long and much in their parliaments and repeat each other over and over again. At the last European Council, I said I would send the next one a tape. Then I don't have to go anymore. A number of countries repeatedly reiterate their support for solidarity and a number of others for responsibility. I know that story, so I'll play my tape too. I don't just want to be cynical. That is why I asked that simulation exercise to see what the concrete result would be, should we have a global European asylum and migration pact. That exercise is now on a technical level. For the time being, I can only say that if such a pact were to be implemented, all countries would be better off. It is therefore important to convince these countries in figures with hard evidence that they are getting better. This is often the case in Europe. European countries are so good at making each other small. The best example of this is the return agreements. The whole world is laughing at us: 27 times a European country or a member of the European Union wants to negotiate a return agreement, and it must be better than its neighbours on the left and right. If we tackle this return at European level and see how we can strengthen countries of origin, with better trade relations, it will help everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u54	Those simulation exercises should ensure that there is a ratio in the debate and less fakenews. Asylum and migration can use ratio, facts & figures, well. The European Union is currently working on this simulation exercise. It's slow, it's too slow, but we're pushing. Another realization, I find it strange that I haven't heard about it, is the Blue Card at European level. After all, there are forms of migration that are necessary. I'm sure everyone will agree on that. I am thinking, for example, of labour migration. I hear people sometimes saying that there should be a full migration stop for everything and everyone. I can only see that when countries do that, they end up in situations like the other side of the North Sea. A Blue Card is important. I have seen that there are also people, such as Assita Kanko in the European Parliament, who are very satisfied, rightly, that the European Union has taken a step in this. There's hope. There's courage. There are people across party boundaries who have hope and believe in the European Union. Thank God. There is the EES system, the Entry-Exit System, which must ensure that we know who is entering Europe and who is leaving Europe, digitised so that we have a view of everyone who is due here. That too is important. We must also work on this, because Schengen is only viable if there is control over who enters Europe and who leaves Europe. Yeah, that's important. Are we doing enough? Is that enough? Is that how we're gonna get there? No, but we're taking steps. The visa sanctions are another important step, which has been mentioned very briefly but in fact not enough - the European Union has been wronged by this. It is said that I promised in committee that this would be done by the summer. I would like to be the European Union, but it is not. In committee, I merely said that the European Commission promised to come forward with a list of countries eligible for visa sanctions by the end of the summer, using the visa code, which was adopted a year earlier in February. This is also a very important step in itself, when we know that Europe has for a very long time refused or refused to sanction countries that do not want to do what they are obliged to do internationally. It is therefore important to mention that the European Commission has done its work on visa sanctions. By the end of the summer, the list was ready. That list has gone to the Council and it is up to him to see which countries can obtain which visa sanctions. I can tell you that the Gambia has now been informed by the Council that it will be subject to sanctions. So you say that it is too slow and that nothing is happening about visa sanctions, but it has already happened for Gambia and it will not stop there either. At European level, we will continue to look at how visa sanctions can and should be used to oblige countries to do what they are obliged to do internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, you have completed your discourse on fake news and advocated a debate based on ratio rather than emotion, but you have now for the second or third time crossed a discourse on the Brexit, which ultimately has little or nothing to do with today's debate. Who will spread fake news if you claim that we would have empty store shelves and could no longer refuel at the pump if a country were to pursue a stricter migration policy and if the European Union were to better control its external borders? Who exactly distributes fake news? Can the people in Denmark still go to the supermarket, can they still go to the gas station? I think so. However, that country has a much stricter and much better migration policy than we do. So what do you say if you claim that there would be a link between empty gas stations, empty store shelves and a stricter migration policy? For example, many of our neighbouring countries have much better returns and a much stricter family reunification than we do, but I do not see empty store shelves and petrol pumps there. Why do you spoil the debate by responding to people's emotions and scaring people for a stricter migration policy? I wonder, because you are advocating a debate without fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, perhaps very briefly about the Brexit. I've had these times of gas stations, lack of fuel and food, I've added the last poll. The conservatives, the real Brexites who were for the Brexit, are rising sharply and Labour is falling very sharply. They're going back to 40 percent. It's numbers you and I can only dream of. Maybe someday we'll get that together, who knows? In any case, it is important to mention that the British who have their own sovereignty do not yet see it so gloomyly with that Brexit. They give the party that is the big trigger of that story more than ever before their voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u57	When it comes to the return figures at European level and other countries presenting better figures, Mr Van Langenhove also knows that there is a report from the European Court of Auditors which shows that it is a European problem. All European countries present very poor figures. In that respect, it is good to keep it correct. I would therefore like us to do so effectively. Everyone uses a country or an example...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u58	Thank you for your attention, Mr Secretary of State, but you have not clearly indicated the link between the proposals made by Mr Pas and Mr Vermeersch here and the questions they have asked about the detection and detection of illegal immigrants and empty store shelves and service stations. If you want to show that it is not fake news that you are spreading here, show us the link between what the Flemish Interest has proposed and the empty gas stations and store stalls. I don't see the link. Pleading for controlled external borders, pleading for a sound return policy has nothing to do with the scaremongering you are showing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u59	With every sentence we can intervene and react. I could do the same with all the interventions. I do not know to what extent that is beneficial for a proper discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u60	I'm just gonna give that to you. I will not take the floor in Parliament, but I do not know to what extent this is useful. In the end, we can still find each other across party boundaries, opposition and majority. That's very nice. I also notice that we sometimes adopt examples of countries when it suits us. In one country it is better sister and in the other it is better this way. We also often refer to elections. One refers to elections in this country...I could say that the elections in Germany have said that...That's cherrypicking that anyone can do but I don't know if that's based on the right facts. I have received a question about the letter addressed to Greece on secondary migration. It is a question that I have already received in committee. It is a justified question because it concerns a legitimate frustration that exists. We know that many people have applied for asylum in Greece or even have refugee status in that country and will be in another European country, for example Belgium, and then apply again. That puts pressure on the system. That is why a letter has been sent to address this and, above all, to see how we can deal with the problems. What is it about very often in the case of Greece? It is about the fact that sometimes there is an impossibility of sending someone back to Greece because it is said that this person in Greece cannot have the right care. Figures have been quoted which are correct about the aid granted to Greece. Of course, there can be something to that. That was the question. Following the letter and the question from several countries, including Germany, the aid measures aimed at integration in Greece were also accepted. These are important steps, because they must ensure that we can continue to implement the Dublin Regulation. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the quality of reception is good in other countries of the European Union, otherwise the Dublin Regulation will be a problem. The same applies to relations with third countries, such as Turkey. The most important thing for me is to ensure that reception is sound in third countries, in Turkey or in countries in the region where there is a conflict. Most people who know the department a little will be able to confirm that 90% of all refugees in the world are being received in the region. If we do not ensure proper reception, a large proportion of the refugees will move to another country. It will therefore be difficult to provide adequate reception in those countries if they do not invest in them. That is why the European Union has also indicated the need to invest in humanitarian aid and international organisations, such as UNHCR, which make a difference on the ground and which can ensure that people are well received. There has also been talk of distress campaigns and information campaigns. They are indeed necessary to inform people properly. It makes little sense if people from a particular country do not need international protection to receive the right information. No one gets better from going on the wrong road to the European Union. We have already seen a number of examples of this. During the covid crisis, a very large group from the Brazilian community suddenly applied for asylum, because it was thought that an asylum application could give us a work permit here. That was fake news. That circled in the community and something like that needs to be addressed. I am also thinking of the Afghan community in the European Union, with people who have been staying in Europe for some time. Today, some apply for asylum in other European countries. This is another reason why we need a derailment campaign. It runs through social media. There is no point in continuing to travel if there is an asylum question in another country. That won't help. We must wait and go through the asylum procedure in that country. It's just that it's important to inform people about it. With regard to the compulsory vaccination of asylum seekers, I have said that it is important to examine whether there is a legal possibility to do so, just as is sometimes considered for other target groups. Why do we do this specifically for that target group? It could be about a large community of two to four hundred people living together in a shelter, with a lot of circulation. It is therefore important that these people and the staff are protected as far as possible. In the public interest, it is therefore good if these people are vaccinated. On the ground, a number of asylum centres are doing a very good job, with a vaccination rate much higher than in other municipalities, from Antwerp to Charleroi. So there are good results, we are working on them, and it is good that we continue to do so. It has already been said that it is important to investigate how we can make a PCR test mandatory in the context of return. After all, some people refuse the PCR test just when they need to be returned, which puts pressure on the system. The country of origin then uses COVID-19 as an argument to refuse the withdrawal. Unfortunately, that's a loophole in the system. It is important that we work on this and that we examine the possibilities for filling the gaps in the system. The return is, of course, a problem for many countries. I have just said that the EU should cooperate much better in this area. The EU should conclude European readmission agreements and could also use visa sanctions as a lever in European negotiations on return. This is even more important for a country like Belgium, because as a smaller country we do not have the same weight in negotiations as the larger European countries. However, we must do what we have to do and we must negotiate bilaterally as long as we have to, but in an ideal world, the European level must play its full part. I have had questions about the North African countries, where it is indeed often quite difficult. Anyone who knows this department well can confirm that. In this respect, I hope that we will be able to make progress and note that in the recent past not much good has come out of it. There was a MoU once, at a time when there were a lot of opportunities. It was a bit like the European Asylum and Migration Pact; at the time of the refugee crisis there was a bilateral momentum between Belgium and a number of Maghreb countries following the attacks that had taken place. In that context, there were negotiations. At that time, I thought we could prove that we are using the right levers to convince those countries to do what we expect them to do, namely to take back their own nationals. In the MoU, which was only valid for a year, it was only about identification. Careful, that's something. However, it was only about identification and we need to be able to do much more. We must be able to convince those countries to do what they are obliged to do internationally. People who arrive here and do not need protection must be able to return, including to Maghreb countries. So that's what we need to work on. I'm working on that day and night, too. Anyone who is intellectually honest enough will recognise that it is not a simple task and that many European countries are struggling with it. However, we have noticed in recent weeks that there seems to be some willingness to cooperate better. It is now important to see if it is more than willingness. As far as Minister Darmanin's statements are concerned, it is not easy at present in France. We are faced with transit migration and in France this is even more so. Do I have to say that this is because we are doing much better in terms of policy than France? Of course, it simply has to do with the geographical reality, the distance between France and England is much shorter, which makes people trying to leave France. So they're sitting there with a huge challenge. Speaking to each other doesn't make any sense, by the way. My colleagues from Britain said that they had left the EU and that it stopped here for them. They asked whether a bilateral readmission agreement could not be concluded between Belgium and Great Britain, so that they could send everyone who arrived to them back to Belgium. I hope there's more we can do than that. I hope that we will also be able to strengthen our European external borders, and I hope that the British will cooperate, because they will of course remain our partners. The resources that Britain wants to free up to strengthen its external borders and increase security are, of course, more than welcome. As far as security is concerned, I do not see why we should not be able to count on our British colleagues. Opinions are divided as to how to deal with transit migration and what to do with transit migrants, whether or not to lock them up. I think that we should simply communicate very openly about these differences in approach. Anyone who arrives here and who we can effectively send back can voluntarily return. However, if necessary, that return is forced, with admission to a closed center before that person returns to the country of origin. Transit migrants must also be returned if this is possible effectively. The capacity of the closed centres is a challenge, the number of places is very limited. We can choose to fill those places with people we know can effectively send them back in the short term. However, we can also choose to use these places for transit migrants from countries such as Eritrea, Somalia and Syria, as has happened in the past. The policy at the time was to send out the signal that people from those countries should not come here and that those who came could be punished. I believe that we must all recognise that this has not worked in reality. The figures for transit migration have not been weakened, the problem has not been reduced. The frustration with the police has only increased and the frustration of staff of the Foreign Office in the closed centres as well. After all, people had to be kept in a closed centre for 24 or 48 hours, and then released again, which is particularly frustrating. Again, opinions may differ. I think we need to work on sufficient capacity, but I also want to use the available capacity for people we can effectively send back. Who comes from countries and regions from which we effectively flee war and persecution, we must lead to the right procedures to apply for asylum, so that they are protected, because no one will ever question the principle of non-refoulement. At least I hope so. We don't send anyone back to a country or region if we think that person there is risking his life. Then I'll come to the shelter. No extra budget has been requested for the shelter. The budget we had was already important and necessary. It is true that reception policies face major challenges. This has to do with a lot of things, for example with a correct influx. We must ensure that the people who arrive here are people who need protection. Today, at European level, but also at Belgian level, two out of three people applying for asylum do not appear to need international protection. The last figures I saw were about 38%. The number of people in need of protection is about the same every year. We must therefore ensure that the right people are properly influxed and proper screening at the borders. We must also ensure that reception policies are more sensible and that we have a dynamic buffer policy, taking into account the fluctuations that exist. Mrs De Block and Mr Francken will be able to confirm that there are months in which there are more asylum applications than in others. That number will be about the same every year. Ensuring a dynamic buffer policy is the major challenge. We also said that we would provide sufficient shelter for those who need it. That is not easy, but it is what needs to be done. Of course, we must also take into account the influx that exists. We need to ensure that we remain realistic in this regard. Mr Francken, you have asked this question a number of times. I don't know if I've ever responded to your reply on resettlement. It is necessary to ensure that resettlement can take place at the time when the reception network can handle it. You once told me to do that. Two weeks before that, the services had already been told to make sure that the resettlement programme was frozen at that time, which did not mean that it had to be stopped. We need to resettle people who are being screened and who appear to be in need of protection. That is our international duty. We will continue to do so, but we need to deal with it wisely. About the hunger strikers, I heard a statement that I thought was weird. Mr Francken, I paraphrase what you said. You said that the vast majority of Moroccans are Moroccans and that we know that it is always no for Moroccans. That was pretty much your verdict. I think you can acknowledge that this is not true. If one looks at the top five nationalities for the regularization applications of recent years, one can see that Moroccan nationality is quite high. So just so you know, all Moroccans get a no. I would ask you not to do that because I often get that remark from people of Moroccan nationality who apply for regularisation. They say that they are discriminated against and that they are rejected anyway because they are Moroccan. That's not true. So don't say that either. It is important that our regularisation policy is today very correct and humane. Mr Francken, you took care of that. You told me in committee that you did not publicly communicate about this because otherwise you would have made additional requests. At that time, however, you made sure that parents with school children could also be regularized. You have given instructions to the Department of Foreign Affairs, which has rightly made the regularisation policy more humane in this area. That's good. I understand why you didn't want to communicate about that. It is important to say that today because a number of people who apply still too often say that it is so inhumane. Then I have to say that's not true. A lot has changed in recent years, but no one has ever said that. It was also clearly stated here in plenary. Those files are being processed and there are a number of files that we would like to see dealt with as soon as possible. People who were in the church of the VUB or ULB are also treated as soon as possible. They get exactly the same treatment and procedure as any other. It would be least correct for someone to receive an answer on the basis of other instructions or treatment, for example because he or she has taken a hunger strike because he or she has occupied a building somewhere. I wouldn't think that was correct. Hopefully, quickly getting an answer will make sure everyone knows where they are. Hopefully there won't be another hunger strike, but we'll have to take care of that together. We need to send out the right communication. I sometimes ask myself questions about the opposition's communication. We must make it clear what it is about and explain what our regularisation policy stands for, and say that it will always be humane. That's what I've always said to them. It's human and it will remain. Applicants have also spent a great deal of time filling in their applications. They wanted to prepare their files well. It's taken time. That's not a problem in itself. Everyone has the room to prepare their files. Those files will now be dealt with. In this respect, too, I have always said that I have no problem with being transparent about it. I think this is correct. I think it should be. I think it's good that the evacuation exercise is being discussed. It is important to note that this government has chosen to evacuate people. The Belgians, of course. That's our duty. But also people who have fought side by side with us for a free society. Human rights activists, women who have fought for a world where every child and every woman can hop on the streets. And yes, also the interpreters and the fixers of the Defense Department. Questions have been asked about the exact numbers that lie with my colleague in the defence sector, but it is important for us to stress that we have spared no expense in bringing those people who fought side by side with us - the interpreters, the fixers, the ladies of Mothers for Peace - here in complete safety. I sometimes find it a little strange that I get the reaction that there are even people who have taken their partner. Beware, when it comes to refugees who had returned there, when they should not have returned, it is right to say that this is not allowed. That needs to be checked. It is necessary to check whether this was for the right reasons. I have already indicated that sometimes there are reasons why it should be allowed. So let us not anticipate the discussion. Let us wait and see who can do what and what cannot. That requires research. But someone taking their partner, that makes sense, doesn't it? We have discussed the military and the interpreters and fixers who have fought for us. DOD was there on the scene. In Afghanistan. In Kabul. During the evacuation. DOD evacuated people on our list who said they were there with their wife and two children.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u61	It's not about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u62	That's what it's about for a piece. Not for you, perhaps, Mr Francken, but I sometimes hear the remark that some of them have come here with the partner. Then I want to ask what we should have done. Should we have told our people at Kabul airport at that time to leave those women and children there? It may not be possible, but I would like to have that clarified, and that concludes us. Then I know. I believe that our people from the Defense Department have done a wonderful job there. I would like to thank them very much for that. I believe that they have done so correctly. Questions on codification have been raised about the Migration Code. We want to do more than codify. You'll have to excuse me for that. I'm a Christian Democrat. If I want to do it, I want to take it down to the smallest detail and do it all the way. I also want to ensure that we come up with a migration code that will bring about a real reform. We have taken very important steps in this regard. In the past, the work has not been finished. All I can tell you is that reality is what she is. The services have already done their study work in recent years and have looked at what needs to be done in order to achieve a sound migration code. After all, migration or foreign law is decades old and there are paragraphs referring to other paragraphs, which no longer exist. It's totally archaic. The reality is, however, that nothing has happened at political level. In February 2021, therefore, we set up a committee with the necessary experts, who are currently working on this work and with a survey of all possible actors to improve policy. I can only hope that everyone is okay with that. So it's more than just codifying. It would be good if it had ever been codified. In the meantime, however, we are trying to do more than that. With regard to the Inter-Ministerial Conference, it is important that we work together across policy areas and across political levels, between the federal level and the regions. The themes discussed in the conference are numerous. After all, there are many themes where there is overlap. It is very important that we also talk about unaccompanied minors, because they are simply looked at very often and do not cooperate sufficiently. We need to look at how best to deal with the problems, how to ensure that no child should sleep on the streets and how to provide the right guidance. That is one of the important issues. Another important theme, which will also be addressed, is the activation of persons, always from legal residence. Here too, however, there is a need to activate people and the right legal migration channels. The West Fleming who asked me the question has left for a while. He could confirm to me that in West Flanders there is certainly a demand for staff from a lot of employers, because they need a lot of people and they need a lot of labour. Don't get me wrong. In the Belgian labour market, too, there are plenty of people who can be activated. The government is also working on this. But with those people alone, we won't get there. We will also need legal labour migration, both at European level and outside the European Union, because we need people to boost our economic drive. That is what we must do. This will also be part of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Mrs Pas, you mentioned the government's priorities and asked if this is a priority. Of course. If the Prime Minister stresses that we need to talk about European cooperation, it is because that is the final piece of migration policy. I am very glad that he says that it is about European cooperation and strengthening those external borders, so that we know who is entering and who is effectively in need of protection. Again, two in three turns out to have to return to the country of origin. Doesn't make anyone any better. I think that strengthening these external borders is a very important ambition that the Prime Minister is putting on the table, and I am pleased that he is making it a priority. Mrs Pas, I am also sincerely pleased that you were intellectually correct when it came to the influx. You said the influx is increasing. We see an increase there in the last month and we are now back at the level before covid. You said you didn't want to make the comparison with 2020, because this was a covid year. I thank you for that and hope that everyone in your party will do so. When we were in the covid period, when everything had been completely closed for a month and no one had applied for asylum, the figures increased a little. Then the Flemish Interest spoke of a spectacular increase of 70%, which in absolute figures was marginal compared to what it normally was. I am particularly pleased that you are doing so, and I can only hope that this will continue to be the case. I am glad to be able to say it here, because when I correct you on social media I sometimes get censored. If I make a ruling about returning an imam, my comment will be deleted. Censorship sometimes seems to work in a certain direction. I'm very happy because I notice there's a positive shift in communication. Mrs. Pas, you may take my compliment. I am very pleased that you are now putting the right figures in the right context and hope that they remain so. You ask me if I believe in the European Pact. I must believe in a European solution. Of course, I shouldn't just do that. We need to improve asylum and migration policies at Belgian level, with a migration code that ensures that people do not move from procedure to procedure and are stuck in procedures for centuries, making it difficult to return. However, people also have the right to proper protection when they need it. I have to believe in a European solution because I know that if we really want to improve the system completely, we need the European Union to do so. I have to believe in European solutions and I have to push at European level to do better in this area. I notice that the European Union has taken steps in the field of visa sanctions, which no one could have imagined three years ago. That is something many people here in the Chamber will agree to. I can only hope that we will make some progress on this point. The European Union is also working to strengthen the external borders. I have no problem with that, as long as people still have the space to apply for asylum in a controlled way. Mr Francken himself expressed his concern in committee about 'fortress Europe', that the borders would be hermetically closed, so that no one would be able to apply for asylum. I share that concern. We must ensure that everyone can find that protection in a controlled way at the moment when he or she needs protection. Mrs Pas, your remark that voluntary return costs a huge amount of money is not correct. I can only refer to a report by the Bossuyt Committee, which is difficult to say that it did not work properly. It states that forced return is 12 times more expensive than voluntary return. So does voluntary return solve everything? No, of course not. But the more people we can convince to return voluntarily, the less forced return costs. Hence our high ambition not only to give 20,000 or 30,000 orders to leave the territory, but also to follow its implementation. Anyone who gets an order like that must be obeyed. It must be accompanied towards return, and if it does not want to go along with it, it must be forced back. It is important to guide those involved in the right way. Hence our very ambitious asylum and migration policy. People are asking what I've already brought in. Now, there are more return escorts, more migration officers, people who participate in the CGVS to examine whether or not someone is entitled to protection, faster procedures and better coordination of the services on the basis of an audit. These are important measures, for which we have made an historic investment, which was necessary and which will bear fruit in the long term. Of course, the people we recruit today will not make the difference tomorrow, but hopefully the day after tomorrow, once they are formed and trained. The machine was structurally reinforced and that is important. Is there any consultation with the British colleagues? Of course, we are talking to our British colleagues. If the British want to invest and provide funds to strengthen their borders, they will do so in relation to France and will do so in relation to our country. There is, of course, a shared responsibility and shared competence on transit migration and bilateral relations with the United Kingdom. That is why I, together with my colleague Van Quickenborne and colleague Verlinden, have worked out pathways and put a plan in place. Of course, I think we should work together with the British, although not in the way they advocate, which is to limit cooperation to negotiating a bilateral readmission agreement and to send migrants back to us so that the problem is resolved for them. Here too, we must work together at European level. You are right to point out the link between human trafficking and drug trafficking. We have to deal with these criminal circuits. In fact, I notice that Europe has also been woken up. We must tackle the root problems, so those who have so ruined the system, and not just the little fish that crawl on the boat. You mentioned the necessary capacity in the closed centres. The integrated infrastructure plan Return has been completed and now we have to continue with it, just like with the refuge. Which slopes are we looking at? In Jabbeke, it is not about a reception centre or a treatment centre, but about a closed centre, where we can effectively work on returning people we should be able to send back. I'm rounding up. It is important for the government to pursue a controlled and better migration policy in which we do not, by definition, regard migration as a problem. After all, we need legal migration and we need to be able to protect people who need protection. Yesterday it was, today it is, and tomorrow it will remain. I particularly hope that we will be able to overcome the justified frustrations by adapting the system both at Belgian and at European level. Again, I may be wearing some hip socks, but I'm not Justin Trudeau and I'm not on the other side of the ocean. We will therefore have to work together at European level. I will keep pounding on the European door and will continue to see with you that it is too slow and that it must be faster, because Europe needs it now, not in 15 years' time. However, with complaints we do not get there, which is why I am doing everything at both European and Belgian level so that we can do what we need to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u63	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the detailed explanation. Let me give you some answers. You say it's too slow, but that's not my biggest frustration. It is always slow in Europe and it can always go faster. In Belgium it is also slow, in Flanders it is slow, in my own municipality it sometimes goes too slow. For me, things can go faster. The main frustration is that asylum policy is simply going in the wrong direction. I do not fundamentally believe in the European migration pact model whereby asylum can be granted a right of residence on European territory. I don't believe in that. That just can't work. So it shouldn't go any faster for me, because what you want to do will never work. You won't get the illegals back. The ratio will remain super low. You may have an agreement with Gambia, but it simply will not work, because of its own procedures, through all possible European case law and directives, through the active opposition of the individual illegal migrant and the home countries, because the whole asylum system has become so heavy and cumbersome, because of the lack of real solidarity between the European Member States and because the climate is not as bad as it will improve, even more so, it will deteriorate. You choose the wrong option, as that option can never work. As far as I'm concerned, a handling at the external border may take two days, or even two months, which you will never make. You say that EASO is working on this from now on, but in the hotspots EASO was already deployed in Greece when I visited it, because EASO officers were already working in Lesbos and Lampedusa. More people have just been recruited, but for the rest, not much has changed. So that model itself simply cannot work. I share your jealousy towards Canada, but I think we can learn most of all from a model like in Australia. Of course, this model cannot be copied perfectly and, of course, reception must also be better, but you must ensure that you conclude a number of agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u64	Mr Francken, allow me to ask for the floor, with all sympathy for the good work you have done, and quite apart from a number of things that have happened. I've been to your cabinet once in Rue de la Loi 18, which you may remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u65	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u66	I was a Member of Parliament then and I discussed the Australian model because it seemed to me at the time to be a good model. You literally replied to me, to the cabinet in Rue de la Loi 18, that this model could not work in Europe, that Europe was a different continent and that it would not be allowed to. At that time, you convinced me not to defend that line of thinking. Now I see that you do. Please, stick to the point. Stay with what you're doing and what you told me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u67	I find that remark very faint, but I will answer it. For a government, the problem with the Australian model is that the European Asylum Procedure Directive does not allow it. That is what I said at the time, and I remember what I said. At the moment, we simply cannot organise pushbacks because of the Geneva Convention. According to a strict interpretation, I think it is possible. Frontex has figured that out, and there are very interesting documents about that. The Geneva Convention is not an obstacle, but the European Asylum Procedure Directive. In particular, some judgments of the European Court of Human Rights make pushbacks impossible. How can that be dealt with? We must conclude an agreement similar to the EU-Turkey deal. On this basis, people are sent back, provided that they are properly received on the ground and can apply for asylum in Turkey as part of the asylum procedure. This should also be applied in a number of other countries. This can be done, although some adjustments will have to be made. Before European politics can be adapted, however, we will have to start by getting the Belgian Government's position on that line. What's the problem? More and more people are beginning to see that the current model can never work efficiently, but that, according to the official government's position, one must participate in the logic of the right of residence following an illegal journey in Europe and the positive response of an asylum procedure. A number of parties do not want to get off that, not today, not yesterday, not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, never. They think it is less important that people have travelled illegally, that they should have the right of residence and that asylum procedures should be initiated. I do not share that view. That's the big challenge. I don't care if it's too slow than it's going in the wrong direction. It can't work at all. Everyone's gonna bite their teeth in pieces. This government will now be faced with it because we are facing a new asylum crisis, or it is already there. You say that two weeks before I asked, you decided to freeze the resettlement programme. I didn't know that. As Secretary of State, I once decided that when there was no room. Mr De Vriendt then made a big fuss about it, with a lot of commotion. Apparently, that doesn't pose a problem for the Green Party at the time. It's just a fix. It is interesting that you say that we need to reflect the figures correctly. You are referring to a study by the European Court of Auditors which says that the return rates across Europe are dramatically poor. That is very relevant, because it is your party, through Mr Demon, who has always said that the return rates in Belgium are much worse than in other European Member States. That was thrown in my face over and over again like a mop, based on an EASO report. I have always replied that there is a different count. If an illegal person in the Netherlands is ordered to leave the territory and the police are then sent for a house visit but the person in question is not at home, they are considered to be returned. If only it were that simple... In Belgium we only count the people who have actually returned by plane and where it has been signed that the return has also taken place. That's why I always said this was fake news and intellectually completely unfair. I welcome the fact that you are now saying that these returns are actually disastrously bad throughout Europe. That means we're not talking about that EASO study anymore. I will never use it against you, because that is intellectually unfair, but both Mrs Lanjri and Mr Demon have used it against me constantly. I can only remind you. You are talking about Mrs Kanko and the European working permit directive. That's not the issue for us either. Labour migration can be encouraged. By the way, we do that in Flanders in a very performative way. We are not anti-Europe or anti-European Union parties. It's not about that. It is about that the path we are now taking is, in my opinion, a hopeless path that leads nowhere. Mr Mahdi, you say that I can no longer say that mainly Moroccans are refused. I hear in the corridors that there would be a lot of Maghrebs, especially Moroccans, among the hunger strikers and that the chance to get humanitarian regularization is not great. You say that I cannot say that, because I must know that Morocco is one of the nationalities who very often gets a 9bis approval and therefore a residence permit. I let one of my people go through those numbers, because that's a statement, especially if you say I can't say that anymore. I'll decide what I say or not. That is a sound principle in a state of law, in a democracy. I've got the top five nationalities of regularized people. In 2019, Morocco was not in the top five, in 2020, being fourth place, with 234 approved regularization applications. I don't have more than the top five. It's from your own stats. What is interesting is that your own annual report also lists the top five nationalities of rejected persons. Morocco is not in four, but in the first place, with 329 refused Moroccan 9bis applications in 2019 and 318 in 2020. Many Moroccan applications are therefore refused. I'll clarify where I got that from. If you say I shouldn't say that, because people say DVZ is discriminatory, I understand. One has to be careful with that, but where I got it from is this. My experience from practice is next. Many people who have Moroccan nationality are often people who have not started an asylum procedure here. There are following reasons for this. Firstly, the recognition rate for Moroccans is very low because Morocco is a relatively stable democracy. Now certainly with the victory of the liberal parties, that is a very good thing. I saw those women there and no one was veiled. It's a very progressive government. If all these countries can do that, I am very hopeful for the future. Secondly, in the Moroccan community there is also a great deal of respect for the king and the monarchy. When applying for asylum, people are actually saying that they are fleeing and that their rights have been violated in the home country. That will not be tolerated at all. That alone creates a stigma, because then one dishonors one's country and nationality. These are the two reasons why there are so few Moroccan asylum applications. So a lot of those Moroccans who apply for a 9bis have never had an asylum procedure. That's one element. Many of them have travelled illegally through Ceuta, Melllella or the Canary Islands and have thus reached Europe, often through Spain, and have travelled through it. They often ask for a 9a request after a not too long stay. So they do not have a 10 year stay here, they do not have a procedure that has been going on for 4 or 5 years, because they have never applied for asylum and for everything else they have to apply in their home country and they do not. They cannot apply for a work visa here; that must be done in the home country. Same for a student application, for that one needs a registration certificate. None of them are eligible for this. I have spoken to dozens of people, perhaps 100, from the Maghreb, with the same problem, which are illegal in the territory. That's why a lot of those files are rejected. My assumption is that, if there are effectively many hunger strikers from the Maghreb, they will very often receive a negative response. Those people are gonna be very malcontent. We'll see. You've drawn a very clear line. I understand that these dossiers will be dealt with as a matter of priority. So that's burden in, first out. Okay, good. Then I expect news somewhere in the next few weeks and also a report. You said you were going to give all the transparency about who, what and how. I'm very curious about that. With regard to the mandatory vaccination and the PCR tests, you say you need to examine all of this. You may, of course, examine this as much as you like, but I do not think this will be obvious. There is the story that reception should be better in the region of origin, because fewer people will then travel. I'm in favour of a better shelter, but I don't know if that's a trigger not to move on. I'm afraid we shouldn't overestimate that. Europe is the most prosperous continent in the world. The difference is still large, even though the reception facilities in a tent camp are somewhere much better than now, then the trigger to come here will still be great. The European Union also announced yesterday that EUR 1 billion will be made available for reception in the region, including Iran and Pakistan. That money must also be used in the fight against terrorism. I don't know if you read that in the Belga message as well. I see the irony of that. European money is spent in the fight against terrorism in Iran or Pakistan, which is a sign of some European naivety. It is not your money, it is European money, but I do not think it will make much difference. We shall therefore await the outcome of the European return agreements. I would like to clarify one more point. I have no problem with the fact that the partner of an Afghan fixer who worked for NATO comes along. I even actively argued to save those people. Of course, one should not leave partner and children behind. It's obvious that they can come with us. It is also clear that special circumstances are being invoked for this purpose and that they are being granted a short-stay visa, after which they can start a family reunification procedure on our territory. However, that is not at all my concern. This is what I'm talking about. I read in your written answers that a total of some 70 people, otherwise protected and recognised refugees, were brought in with the evacuation operation, of which 26 were with a partner and 20 were partners without a right of residence. Those weren't interpreters or fixers. Those were recognized refugees, people who weren't supposed to be there at all. They have simply introduced their partner, for which they should normally start a family reunification procedure. The possibility of recognition is not going to be that simple. I think that's double acid. I am sorry that they have travelled, that they have been evacuated and that they are bringing in their partner, who is illegal and has not yet been established with the relationship according to the Belgian State. I find that hallucinating. There are still 442 people on the evacuation list, of which 108 are not a priority, because they are people who have to enter Europe through Pakistan. The others can go through Kabul with Qatar Airways. These are Belgians and foreigners with a right of residence in Belgium. How many recognised refugees are there? How many partners are there? I will submit these questions in writing, because this seems to me to be a category to which you should look again. If this continues to be a practice, you will certainly encounter me on this, because this is inexplicable. Finally, I wish you every success in relation to the Migration Code. You say you have more ambition than just codification, and I take note of that. You say that you are a Christian Democrat and that that is why you are trying to put it together well. However, it is Christian democracy that has created all these small suburbs since the Aliens Act of 1989. Why is the legislation so illegible? Why did the foreign law just become a soup? Why is it necessary to create a migration code? That is, of course, because for 30 years, laws have been passed that have never been properly aligned. So that has a certain history, it is what it is. I hope that it will succeed now, and I wish you every success in doing so. Mr Secretary of State, I can only conclude that your policy has not convinced me in the past year, certainly not. I believe you are absolutely of good will and have good intentions. Nor do I doubt your word when you say that you are working day and night on a better migration policy. Your commitment and your good intentions are matters that I certainly have no doubt about. However, due to the circumstances, the course set by Europe and the government in which you are sitting, I think that it will be very difficult and that the asylum crisis will really swallow you up next year. It will be difficult to convince people that migration policy really needs to change direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u68	Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to apologize. I was just out for a second, because I had the bad luck of someone driving into my car in the parking lot. The police needed my papers so they could get some insurance. Pretty bad luck, huh? I don't know if it was one of my colleagues. The police said he wasn't insured, so I hope it wasn't anyone in this hemisphere. I guess I've had that bad luck, too. Anyway, it has been a solid debate. I was able to track everything on the cell phone, even when I was outside the car. So I've heard your intervention and the reply. In the meantime, we're sitting for 32 hours, and that's taking its toll. The Prime Minister has already spoken in detail and all the group leaders have come to do their thing, most of them for almost an hour. However, until Secretary of State Mahdi took the floor after about 30 hours, only one subject that had actually hardly been discussed or not been discussed. We were able to draw conclusions from this, conclusions which have been confirmed for a year and which have been reinforced by your speech today. Migration or mass migration, a subject that emerges after election as the greatest concern of the Flemings, turns out to be a negligible detail for Vivaldi time and time again. Nothing must change, and if anything changes, it must certainly not jeopardise the opportunities of illegal migrants to settle here. Green and Ecolo are very careful about this. Two weeks ago, your CD&V colleague Franky Demon took the floor on the committee. He said that the temporary detention of illegal migrants who form a family should be possible in the last instance. That makes sense, but yet the phenomenon I just described became immediately apparent. Your Green and Ecolo colleagues took the floor and Mr Demon immediately pointed out. Under no circumstances, even if any logic and fairness dictate it, families of illegal migrants should be forced back and temporarily detained. Migration must therefore be kept silent, and if you or your colleague Demon speak about it, then Ecolo and Groen will immediately put it in place. That place is not in the center, but far left. That is the position you are now taking as a fifth wheel on a car that can only turn left. So you miss the misery of many Flemings altogether. After all, no one can get around the misery caused by the mass migration crisis that you refuse to tackle on the ground. Shuttles and train conductors face violence from black drivers every day. Teachers, in the meantime even those from the smallest rural villages, see their jobs becoming increasingly difficult, because how can one get the best out of every child if more and more students and parents do not even speak our language, unless it is to demand Islam lessons or halal meals. Then all of a sudden they'll find the right words. Young couples are also now faced with the consequences of mass migration. Renting or buying a house is becoming priceless. The influence of mass migration on this is unmistakable, especially in Flemish Brabant, where the Brussels flood not only raises crime rates and school drop-out rates, but in the meantime also increases house prices. Students, who used to have the luxury of being left a few years ago at the expense of Mom and Dad and in the sheltered environment of the student neighbourhood and the university, are now being pushed with their noses on the facts. Their rectors want to replace them as soon as possible with non-white students and if they dare to go to the Overpoort or the Old Market in the evening, they run the risk of being assaulted or stabbed, mainly by new Belgians. Did you really think, dear left-wing colleagues, that the stabbings in Leuven or the recent riots in the Overpoort of Ghent were the work of students? Maybe they were exchange students from Kinshasa or Marrakesh. If Minister Verlinden does her job, we could find out, but unfortunately, picking up and punishing will not happen. Everyone is faced today with the disastrous consequences of mass migration. In all policy areas there is an elephant in the room that no one dares name. You don't have the guts to do that either. We hardly hear you, not to say never, about the huge social impact, even today. This has an impact on labour market policy, education, justice, police, public transport and housing markets. Everywhere the migration ghost pops up, but nowhere is it named. There is a green-red sticker on your mouth and the worst thing is that you stuck it on yourself when you signed the monstrous coalition agreement that you were desperately trying to defend today. Those green-red stickers stick over the mouths of the entire coalition. Green and red are rubbing their hands at the moment. After all, the influx is huge and the outflux is minuscule. As long as no one talks about it, as long as everyone walks around with a mental sticker over their mouth, those streams will continue to exist. Today it took no less than 30 hours for the very important issue of migration to receive the first attention it deserves. In Mr De Croo's State of the Union, the migration crisis was precisely non-existent. Whoever heard him would conclude that mass migration is not really a concern of most Flemings. One and a half sentences were spent on migration in the entire government declaration, simply to shift responsibility to the European Union as always. However, one might think that in the negotiations of the government parties in recent weeks there has been extensive talk about migration and that progress would finally be made in order to avoid worse. After all, the hunger strikers and the Afghanistan crisis are still fresh in memory. Saving on the migration bill is apparently still taboo. In times when ordinary Flemings are already struggling to pay the bill for electricity or gas, that ordinary Fleming receives an additional billion bill year after year for the incessant influx of a mass of migrants. That billion-dollar bill will continue to rise. Fedasil is constantly looking for additional shelters to accommodate the so-called refugees. You'll confirm that again today. You want to continue to facilitate rather than stop. Yesterday it became known that there was a heavy fight in the Fedasil center of Rocourt, with no less than 40 people involved. This is one of the many hundreds of violent incidents a year in the asylum centres, not to mention all the outside incidents. Near Rocourt there is also a large asylum centre, that of Spa. This government wants to increase the capacity of that asylum centre to 550 migrants. The fact that a lot of people in Spa have been affected by the flood and are still in trouble seems to be of very little concern to this government. The creed of Flemish Interest is our people first. The creed of this government is clearly our people the other day. Instead of focusing on the people affected by the floods and on all the other Walls and Flemings in the misery, this government continues to increase reception capacity and facilitate the influx of migrants. In the meantime, the numerator is already at 26,000 asylum seekers who are currently being received in our country. The number of asylum applications has also increased for months. We are even back at the pre-corona crisis level. What an achievement! A very sad observation. You have not shown the slightest ambition today to stop the massive influx into this country. The cautious and vague announcement of a possible review of the conditions for family reunification, in order to bring them into line with the rules in our neighbouring countries, has not been heard today either. The influx remains enormous, both in terms of legal and illegal migration. While measures that could have had an effect on the influx were still being implemented, the already flawed return policy was further handicapped and undermined. With special thanks, moreover, to the Green parties, who, as parliamentary arm of the migration lobby, continue to block even the smallest and most reasonable and necessary tightening of migration policy. Mr Mahdi, you have repeatedly announced that you want to increase the return rates, even today. However, it remained with announcements. In fact, by excluding two essential instruments, you are making the situation even worse, in particular the temporary housing of families who refuse to return to adapted return units and an arrangement that should finally allow the police to apprehend unwilling illegal immigrants at home. Both remain out of the question. A few months ago you wanted to come up with a watered-down solution and convince your colleagues, but today we have not even heard about it. With regard to closed return centres, another measure that is crucial to our return policy, this government is also completely ignorant. After Mathieu Michel stated that Sammy Mahdi would never realize the promised return centers in this legislature, you announced, Mr Mahdi, that you would work hard to realize them anyway. Another promise you haven't fulfilled. Today, a year later, we see no concrete plan for this in the government statement and in your speech. While at home, any credible measure to slow down the inflow and increase the outflow is still being pointed towards the European Union, which in this way always serves as the fig leaf behind which the government is trying to hide its own incompetence or even unwillingness to do something. The Flemish Interest Group certainly does not deny that EU policy is more than inadequate. We often refer to it ourselves, as you yourself say, Mr Mahdi. But that does not relieve you of the duty to do what is and must be done urgently, both at home and abroad. As Mr Paspas has said, the French have shown that this is perfectly possible with visa sanctions against three North African countries. Mr Pas has asked, but there has not yet been an answer. What's to stop you from taking the right steps? What is stopping your government from tightening the conditions for family reunification and linking development aid to the readmission of illegal nationals? These are some of the many measures that you can take yourself at the Belgian level. Denmark has shown that it can do otherwise. That country saw the number of asylum applications falling to the lowest level in 20 years and announced that it would tighten up even more. Mette Frederiksen reiterated her electoral promise and stated that it was the intention to reduce the number of recognised asylum seekers to 0 in the long run. This is not the case with the Belgique, where we seem to be pursuing the world record of asylum seekers. It is entirely in addition to the question, Mr Mahdi, to refer to the queues at the petrol pumps in Great Britain. You'd better make a comparison with Denmark. Not so long ago, the Danish Parliament adopted by a large majority a proposal aimed at introducing a radical change in asylum policy, the Australian approach to illegal migration. That Danish initiative would, of course, be more effective and efficient if the European Commission were to support such an approach. Unfortunately, it has so far maintained open asylum points for illegal migration, while this system has clearly proved its unworkability. And yes, that is the European Commission and not you, Mr Mahdi. But you and the government could have an impact on that. In that respect, you are very inadequate. Moreover, the unworkability also applies to the EU Migration Pact, which has been announced with a lot of bombs. In the meantime, only you, Mr Mahdi, seem to believe in that. Like all previous attempts to achieve a common European asylum and migration policy, the famous EU Migration Pact, which has been announced with a lot of trumpets, is also doomed to failure. The European Commission's concept remains unchanged based on open European asylum points for illegal immigration from anywhere in the world, coupled with a bureaucratic system of distribution across Europe, including to nation states which have decided quite rightly and completely democratically that it has been enough. You want to overrule those countries and use the European Union as a stick to beat them until they accept mass migration. Instead of wasting more time on unrealistic and unworkable plans, which only divide the European Member States, attention and priority should be given to issues on which most Member States agree, namely, firstly, the return of those who do not have the right to asylum and, secondly, the containment and cessation of further influx of illegal migrants. Mr Mahdi, if you did so and, by your authority in the federal government, finally assumed your responsibility and did what you can from Belgium, then a great deal is possible. There's a lot you can do. Just think of illegality, visa sanctions, the tightening of family reunification, the expansion of capacity in closed return centres or the possibility of forced return for families. Moreover, if you finally bring our country into line with the growing coalition of EU Member States that want to close the European external borders and genuinely pursue a structural return policy, there is much more to be done. I'm rounding up. Colleagues, mass migration is often seen as a kind of natural phenomenon and as if the millions of migrants coming to Europe are inevitable. It's not that. Mass migration is not a natural phenomenon, but it is the result of political decisions. That is, on the one hand, a painful finding. This means, after all, that there is a political elite who deliberately flooded our continent and our country with a mass of migrants without opportunities for integration. We all remember Merkel's Wir-schaffen tie-lock call, which was also echoed here in the Chamber. It is therefore a painful finding that our political elite does not have the best interests of us and destroys our social fabric in exchange for electoral cattle and cheap labour. On the other hand, the fact that the crisis was caused by political decisions is a very hopeful finding. If it was caused by political decisions, it can also be reversed by political decisions. Colleagues, that is our historical responsibility and our duty to our descendants. That is why the Flemish Interest Group will continue to insist that you must take all possible policies at both Belgian and European level to reduce and reverse mass migration. In my speech, which everyone can read in the report, I understand that after 32 hours of debate what can be forgotten, there were concrete and feasible proposals, contrary to the presentation by the Prime Minister, the group leaders and indeed also by you, Mr Mahdi. Even you didn't get any further than a little mess in the margin. Your clarifications of the migration code and your return coaches are commendable initiatives, but we both know that will not make any difference at all. The concrete proposals on migration that my group has made today through colleagues Pas, Vermeersch and myself would make the difference and finally give the Flemings the migration policy they have been begging for so many years. Get on it. You have already lost the first year of your term of office. Use the time you have left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u69	This concludes the thematic discussion on Mr Mahdi's competences. We therefore turn to Mrs De Bleeker's skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of the debate, as the last chapter, the chapter of the budget, has now been opened. The debate has been going on for about 32 hours. I have to say that I've been here fresher, because I'm only two hours sleep and a fresh shower, but receipt, I'll keep standing here. More specifically, I am in the chair for a number of reasons. Firstly, after this debate, I think this is the right place to start by thanking everyone. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the thorough debate. On social media, I see journalists starting to wonder why a debate should take so long. Questions can be asked, but I think we should be particularly pleased that we can have an in-depth debate here. Secondly, I would also like to thank the services who have been giving everything to themselves for 32 hours. I would also like to thank you, Madam President, and I would like to thank all the staff, including the interpreters, who have done all they can to make it possible that we are once again truly a parliament that can debate on the substance of a very important document. Thirdly, I want to be on the floor because the Croo government is actually starting today. Last year was a special year, in which the corona process had to be managed. From now on, we will fall somewhat further into what is customary in Parliament, namely the discussion of socio-economic reforms and social discussions. Let us hope that Parliament can meet in full order as soon as possible, and that everyone is welcome. I will stop standing in this gallery because it is open for the first time in a year and a half. I have followed all the debates so far from my bank, in full respect of the agreed corona rules. It's only now that this gallery is open again. Colleagues, I think that we really need to think about this, we really need to celebrate it as a happy moment. We can be together again as a full parliament and hold the in-depth debate. Everyone has his style and his approach in the debate. That too is educational. Over the last 32 hours, we've seen parliamentarians who know their files. Ministers have shown that they have worked very hard, other ministers have fallen into the basket. We saw people who would rather read a text than spontaneously, from knowledge, enter into the debate. Each one's style, each one's approach, but that says a lot. That too is what a parliament should be about. I'll make it concrete and come to you, Mrs. De Bleeker. What are we talking about today and in fact two days ago? The Prime Minister has replicated and said what he considers to be the essence of the debate. The Prime Minister said that for him the essence of the debate is that one says that the government is doing too much while the other says that it is doing too little, which makes it, according to the Prime Minister, a centre government. That is not at all what this debate is about. That's not the essence. This debate is about trust. The government is asking Parliament for confidence to be able to do business. You ask that we attach credibility to the promises you make. That is the essence of the debate. That is also what our group has been trying to test during this debate. Can you be trusted? Is what you put on paper and come to defend credible in this House? Can we find that credible? That's what it's really about. I regret that the Prime Minister has made some kind of party political analysis of this. I loved his speech in the European Parliament last year, because then the Prime Minister made the promise for another policy. He then announced the following, I quote: "We need not only a stimulus plan, but also a trust plan." I thought he was right at the time. This Parliament, these democracies that come together here, need not only socio-economic reforms and debates, but also debates that restore confidence in politics. That's the job of all of us. I found the Prime Minister's message right. I was sorry he didn't repeat that message. Mrs De Bleeker, it will be no surprise to you that I am building this speech on the issue of credibility, because that was the theme and the thread of our political action and the interaction that we have had in the Committee on Budgets over the last year. I've asked you questions over and over again. Do you think what the government is doing is credible? Where would you set the bar? Does that bar need to be raised? What initiatives would you take? Are they feasible or not? That is essentially what we have done. From now on, Madam Secretary of State, the time will begin when we will measure you to that bar. So far you have been able to say that you inherited the Lachaert budget, which was quickly put together, a year ago, after very short negotiations which took a very long time. You could hide behind that, but from today on, you can't. That is a joyous moment, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are celebrating the birth of the first budget of Secretary of State De Bleeker. Congratulations, Madam Secretary of State. Your first budget is coming up. Is it realistic, however? Is he credible? Can we trust them, too? That's what this is about. I have already shown the IMF's graph to Mrs De Block, which says that we are not doing very well. I won't repeat the graph again. You can also look at it. I will focus specifically on you, Madam Secretary of State. You have communicated a great deal in the last year, both in the media and in Parliament. You've made a number of harsh statements. The statements that have stuck with me most are those in the Latest News, where you said: "Each file gets a critical analysis from me before I approve or reject it. I monitor the financial impact of the measures." So you have said that every dossier that goes into the budget table must first pass the De Bleeker test. It will not be in the table until you have first said whether it is good or bad. You've profiled yourself as an Iron Lady. You also said, "If the PS comes off with hocus pocus, I won't be able to do it." How much hocus pocus is actually in what we've received on paper and what we've heard in the last 32 hours? We have had a very interesting debate with Mr Dermagne, still a convinced regionalist. It's very nice to talk to you about that. At the same time, it is falling apart with regard to the figures. With the payback effects of the number of jobs something really doesn't add up. Did you check that out? Did they pass the hocus pocus test? Did you approve or reject it? I did the math myself. If we add the jobs that come with unchanged policies to the extra jobs that you say will come with, I don't believe any of them, then we'll get about 40,000 jobs a year. Count that on 9 years, i.e. 2030; the threshold to reach the 80% level of activity would create about 380,000 jobs with your policy. However, we need 660,000 to reach 80%. You come here with great promises that all the problems have been solved and that even pensions can be paid with the extra jobs created, but you do not touch your own threshold. You're gonna need 660,000 and you're gonna get 380,000. Those are not my figures, but those of the Planning Bureau under unchanged policies, supplemented by your 13,500 jobs. I don't think that's credible. I also cannot believe that you have approved those figures and that you have not pierced them as a hocus pocus. Initially, the tables contained 400 million in payback effects through job creation. All labour market experts had questions about this. I actually expected that there would finally be a package to support that 400 million, but what did you do? You blew up that 400 million to 1.2 billion. You blew the balloon three times bigger. Does that pass the hocus-pocus test? Secondly, we have had some interesting fiscal debates with Minister Van Peteghem and also with Minister Dermagne on fraud. The figures for this amount are as high as 1 billion in the tables. Fortunately, the government has realised that this was unrealistic enough to stop creating more. What do I see in the debate? Minister Dermagne says that with the piste social fraud on his own he gets those targets. That is what he sold here last night, while on page 9 of the Monitoring Committee's report, your own top officials conclude that they have no information that can confirm that statement. Your own top officials apparently use the hocus-pocus test, piercing that balloon and saying that what is said there is not correct. I ask you the same question, Madam Secretary of State. Do you believe that? Thirdly, we have already talked about inflation and index. You're not taking that. It is well known that inflation is high and that there is a new indexation. We expected these factors to be taken into account in the budgetary tables and have checked whether this is the case. The answer we receive in Parliament is that this has not yet happened. You're falling into the trap again that you've been kicked into a few times. More importantly, we have had a very extensive debate here with Ministers Khattabi and Van der Straeten, in which the debate with Minister Van der Straeten was particularly high-level. As a Member of Parliament, I can only respect the drive and file knowledge of a minister as Minister Van der Straeten. I also have a great deal of respect for the reply she has received from the real machine of our group, Bert Wollants, the man who does not need sleep and who alone has pierced Minister Van der Straeten's hocus pocus. That was the trade minister's substantive debate. What you were supposed to deliver is the budgetary impact. It is no secret that the core exit comes with an invoice and that there is a subsidy price attached to the gas plants. But we do not see any of this appearing in the tables. You will argue that decisions still have to be taken and that this is before November. But, Madam Secretary of State, we all know that the debate has taken place here; it is only about how many gas plants they are going to be and how many billions of subsidies are going to be invested in them. At least I would have expected you to have put your hand in the air during the last night at the negotiating table, which seems to have gone a little messed up after all, with the statement that a line had to be drawn to finance those gas plants that were coming in anyway. The same applies to Mrs Lalieux's pension reform. Madam Secretary, I am sorry that we have not been able to have the debate directly with you. That is not a reproach to you; we should have asked for that debate ourselves. Instead, we had a debate on this with your group leader, Mr Laaouej, and with the Prime Minister. I will not say that this is equally good, because, of course, we prefer to hear the Minister speak, but it was also of a good level. In addition, the Prime Minister could have the luxury of joining Mr Laaouej's beauty. That debate showed that it is not clear at all that the pension reform will indeed be budget-neutral. That is why we debated for 32 hours. This has enabled Parliament to see that this reform does not pass the hocus-pocus test. You come up with pension plans that you are reassuringly claiming are affordable thanks to the employment rate of 80%. But the debate with Minister Dermagne has just shown that you do not achieve the 80% employment rate and so you do not make the money. You say it's true. The Prime Minister thought he'd found a handyman. He told our group leader Peter De Roover that he did not understand, that this was about the 2022 budget and that there will be no budgetary impact on pensions in 2022. Of course that is ridicul, because we get tables until 2024. The Prime Minister then had to confirm himself that Mr De Roover was right, that adjustments would indeed have to be made to the tables submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have a 32-hour debate in Parliament. In this way, we can confront you with your own words and ministers who are not smart enough to coordinate, catch their own mistakes. If your work were well organized, we would not be able to make those observations. It's not sloppy work, it's just wrong work. These are mistakes, Madam Secretary of State, which you should point out, because it is your budget. Then there was the very interesting debate with Minister Dedonder on Defence. By the way, I'm a little reluctant to talk about Defense, considering my long career there as it were. I think that I will stay out of the debate, because it is not about my approach. Anyway, I have been following a number of debates with Mrs Dedonder at the beginning and I have also seen the debate last night. She certainly has grown in her role. In any case, it knows very well how to sell a number of items which are in fact completely incorrect. Mrs Dedonder promises the military a wage premium, which they absolutely deserve, and which will cost EUR 150 million. They will not receive them until 2024 or 2025. For years we have been accused of pushing the funding for defence too far forward, but that is exactly what Minister Dedonder is doing again. According to Mrs Dedonder, it will all be fine with the wage raise of 150 million together and will not be saved on operations, which in total will get even more money, while we have learned from the debate with the Prime Minister that defence must save on the same rhythm as the other departments. While, initially, like the security departments, it was imposed a slower rate of savings last year, it will now have a sharper rhythm. So Mrs Dedonder is simply telling us vesicles, and that is a great pity, because she is doing so on the hood of hard-working soldiers, who this year have proved in particular that we need them and that they are doing a hugely valuable work. They have done so in the case of the floods in Wallonia, and they have done so equally well in the case of foreign missions. I repeat, a 32-hour debate has value. It is not about duration, it is about figuring out what is being said and it is about being able to play our full role as a Parliament. I was going to question Secretary of State Dermine, but I withdrew that invitation because I liked to give Thomas his night's sleep. However, I am very sorry that I did not do so, because, in a later debate, it became clear that once again, one of your government's mistakes almost did not come to light or half did. You once again withheld information from Parliament. Your budget tables say that you will invest EUR 1 billion. What do we determine? The newspaper editors have those tables. There are articles in De Tijd and De Morgen, but who doesn't have those tables? Us. Parliament does not have these tables. After the Prime Minister has been here and after my group chairman has urged him that transparency is needed and that there should be respect for Parliament, your government is once again performing to give crucial information only to the press and not to Parliament. That is what we need to find out in the debate. That's just not right! Do you know what's even less correct? I can't get mad. I haven't slept enough. What is even less correct is that we should read in the last paragraph of the article in De Morgen that Secretary of State Dermine announces that a press conference on the figures will be held tomorrow Friday. Parliament does not get that table. We have to look up the figures ourselves. Then we see that the journalists who do get it and that Dermine is still performing it to plan a press conference tomorrow, after we are expected to give confidence to your government. How the hell would you be worth that trust if you couldn't even share that basic information? We have asked for these documents with great urgency. They were delivered by e-mail at 4.07 p.m. Moreover, I have seen why this information was not provided: the numbers have changed. You just chipped a little bit more. Apparently, we weren't allowed to see that. There is still work for Mr Dermine. He's coming with an invoice. So far, you've been satisfied. All of us, or half of us, because he came up with a European cheque of EUR 5.9 billion, with more than a billion for the federal budget to make investments. It is a cheque for which we pay too much, because we are getting far too little money from Europe, but we have already had that debate. So far, Mr Dermine has issued a check, but we note that he is now submitting an invoice. Because Europe is using wrong parameters in the distribution of this corona support, we will get EUR 750 million less from next year. We have asked Secretary of State Dermine how he will deal with this and said that he will have to delete it in projects or at least have to think about funding. He ignored our question. If the European Commission makes calculations and indicates that it is a certain direction and corresponding order of magnitude, I think that if you ask for confidence, that confidence requires that you, Mrs De Bleeker, give an indication that you will take that into account. We do not see that in your tables. Hocus pocus. Mrs De Block, we have also had debates with you. What interests me specifically is the tax shift. During the debate the story of the special contribution to social security was brought up and that there was a tax shift, that people didn't really pay anymore. The conclusion of the debate was that you are a tax government, as shown by the budgetary tables. This government with the Open Vld introduces 1 billion additional taxes. There can be a debate on whether or not they are good decisions. Are there things that are undertaxed today that can be taxed a little more? That is a valid debate as long as it belongs to the logic of a tax shift where the overall tax burden does not increase. But here Mrs De Block says, among other things, that there is a tax shift and that the workers are going to get more money and so on. But there is no shift at all, there are only extra taxes worth EUR 1 billion. You communicated that very well, Madam Secretary of State. I admit you communicate very well in the media. You have given the impression that you wanted to save EUR 3 billion, when you said that you need to do a budget exercise of EUR 3 billion. That is a fundamental difference. A budget exercise of 3 billion means saving 1 billion, introducing 1 billion additional taxes and doing another billion miscellaneous. The billion that we are talking about will certainly be even higher in the coming years. But the communication was good: people think you want to save while Open Vld charges extra. This is a tax government and if you try to pierce it, Madam Secretary of State, you believe in your own hocus pocus. Finally, a question to you, Madam Secretary of State. There has been a lot of debate in committee on the budget and expenditure. It is also always about public debt and its impact on public debt. But we have not yet seen a single table of the impact of your measures on public debt. Is that going down? How many? What is the impact on interest costs and on the budget? I would like to see these tables, also to know whether the 1.2 billion loan to Wallonia is being properly paid in. Then we will talk mainly about the interests that need to be included in the debt. As a Parliament, we need to know that. The fundamental debate was, of course, that a hurray was called for a federal loan, but that they did not want to know about a Flemish loan. But I don't want to have that debate with you. With you, I would like to have the debate on the state of public debt and its state of affairs. Will we be able to see the count or will we be able to do so later? Jobs, fraud, inflation, pensions, psychologists are also themes. We have not even mentioned psychologists, namely the EUR 11 for a visit to the psychologist. For 11 euros, we can go to the psychologist. That is what Mr Vandenbroucke has put on the market very nicely. Now that measure appears to be totally underfunded. Experts argue that this requires an investment of EUR 1.5 billion. Madam Secretary of State, I have not slept very much, but in committee you have replied that the budget for this is now EUR 230 million. Communication is large, but there is only one sixth or one seventh of the amount required. Madam Secretary of State, there is also the question of whether there will be anything else. If this 11-euro measure is to be implemented, additional funding will have to be made available in the budget. In any case, there is no line for this in the tables. We don't know if there's money for it. So there's hocus pocus on all sides. That is my fundamental question to you, Madam Secretary of State. We know you're a good communicator. Above all, however, I would like to know whether you have something to say in the government, whether you are credible, whether you are putting your fist on the table and making it clear that what is put on paper is pure air and are bubbles that will burst into your face. That is what will happen. We already know that budgetary controls are coming. You know that, too. You also know that air pumped into numbers always comes out in the end. I come to a short second part, in which I want to talk about confidence and credibility, on which we have already had an interesting debate in the Chamber with Mrs Melissa Depraetere and the Prime Minister. They said: to be worthy of trust and to be credible, action must be taken. That statement is correct, but I do not think it is enough. In addition to doing things, in addition to being active, in addition to planning and organising reforms in the field, there is also a need for credibility in the figures, especially through honesty. I explained that to you a moment ago. I would just like to comment specifically on what Melissa Depraetere and the Prime Minister suggested, namely that confidence restores when ministers do things. In this respect, the debate over the last 32 hours has opened my eyes. The corona pandemic was primarily a health crisis and security crisis, respectively under the responsibility of Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Verlinden, who have obviously been under enormous pressure over the last year and a half. I have discussed Community aspects with Minister Verlinden, but I understand that she has had to give priority to internal governance. The corona pandemic was followed by severe flooding. I do not understand that Minister Clarinval, also responsible for the institutional, has done anything at all in this area. Essentially, corona was a health and safety crisis. We have all seen that the ministers responsible have worked very hard. However, many ministers were not at all in the hottest of battle, not in the first line of fire. Occasionally they had to go to a Consultation Committee or decide to extend an existing aid measure, but otherwise they were not in the line of fire. While Minister Verlinden and Minister Vandenbroucke were working very hard, I assumed that all these other ministers were also working very hard. After all, credibility is restored with decisiveness. Ministers can provide for reforms that have an impact on the ground. But what a disappointment that has turned out to be! Mrs. Lalieux, I see you're getting up. However, you are the first example of this. I know it has no connection to the speech, but you are the first example. You weren't in the heat of battle against the corona pandemic. Everyone, including the press, assumed that you would come up with a phenomenal plan for pensions, that you could make a putsch, that the PS could bring in the trophy of the reform train and that everything would be super well prepared. But what have we seen? That's because apparently it's been your only ambition to release a good torpedo. I have the impression that this seems to be the division of tasks among the ministers. Secretary of State Dermine must be the volunteer within the PS line. Apparently, your role is to liquidate and torpedo everything in the government agreement that the PS doesn't like. You did that very successfully with your pension reform. It worked out really well. Whether it is to the benefit of the taxpayer, I dare argue. However, you have played your role well in this respect. Vice Prime Minister Dermagne's in there a little bit. He must be the reasonable man and the man who comes to the deal. That is actually a good division of labour, which is politically well thought out. Except she's a little transparent. She's also making sure we're all in trouble right now. After all, we assumed that you were at least working very hard on what was in the government agreement on the direction that was given to pensions in order to draw up a plan that was in line with those ambitions. However, that is not the case at all. The only thing the Prime Minister could do was elegantly express it, by declaring that we must separate pensions from any budgetary discussion and that this decoupling is the reason why he would not say anything about it in his statement. The fact that pensioners should not be looked at in order to obtain budgetary returns is also our opinion. However, that is not why we have barely talked about pensions for 32 hours. The reason why we have barely talked about pensions in the last 32 hours is that your torpedo has been very successful. When you know that two fellow ministers are working very hard to manage a pandemic, it is absolutely not right if you are not doing the same thing, to achieve results in the same way. You had to make sure that when they got some time to discuss it, there were things on the table that could help the relay and the launch forward. After all, your domain is also about activation and how we can ensure that more people can continue to work in a sensible way, so that they can also get an extra pension and enjoy their old age. I do not think it is serious that there are ministers working hard and that in the meantime such an important dossier, which should be one of the pearls on the crown of any reform, is being misunderstood. I don't think that's right. I could say the same about Minister Dermagne, because his maths around the jobs aren't working. I could say the same about Minister Clarinval. Where are the preparations to relaunch the economy? When it came to distributing aid funds, Minister Clarinval was on the appeal. That was good, because we needed those measures to drag our businesses through the crisis. However, when it comes to organising the start-up of the economy, I have not yet seen any major projects. Minister Gilkinet wasn't exactly in the line of fire of the corona crisis either. We've seen him a number of times, for example when it was about sitting at the window on the train or not, but it was. We haven't seen the big other plans yet. What we have seen now is that Ecolo has managed to pry off strong budgets for SNCB. We'll see, but not what to do with that. I am not and will not pretend to be a mobility specialist, but I assume that a generalist like me would have picked up something if there were big plans. I should at least have an idea. I don't even feel like anything's happening there. Madam Secretary of State, I'm coming to you. The people mentioned are ministers, they are mature, they are competent for their portfolios and they should do their job. Unfortunately, however, it is also your job, because if all your fellow ministers do not do what they have promised, if even the objectives of the unrealistic and not very ambitious coalition agreement are not met, then it will be your problem. The IMF says that you are delivering Europe's worst budget. In conclusion, I have a few final questions for you. What will you actually do about this? What steps still need to be taken? We now have a fundamental political debate and then we have to translate it into budget tables. I assume that your administration has already been put to work, that these tables are being prepared, that the interkabinette groups will be running, that all this will be put on paper and that a double check of the figures will be made. That's the first thing you can do, do that double check. It's not because this place is now sold with a lot of show and bombs, that it has to stay that way. Nothing prevents you from piercing fiction and hocus pocus, air and bubbles in the numbers. That would also be in Mr Van Peteghem's favour. If the figures are wrong, the tax train will be looked at. Then the ball will roll back to CD&V very quickly, because it delivers the Minister of Finance. So you too have an interest in taking some extra time to correct the figures. It is, of course, embarrassing if you have to adapt something that the entire country has already read or heard in the newspaper or press conferences. If you had been smart enough to do that in Parliament, only the people watching our videos on Facebook would have known. Now everybody knows. That's the result of the press conference. It's a little embarrassing if you have to change that, but that's only embarrassing in the short term. Then you'll be done with it, then it's clear and we can work seriously. Then we know you might be worth the trust, too. Are you available for that? It is not because figures are on paper and because ministers get a bag of money that they are satisfied with. It's up to drivers to ask for money. We speak from experience, I am also a member of a board party. The most ungrateful job is that of Minister of Budget. After all, it must be strict and say that it is not in the tables. Will you see to it that we don't go into the red any more, that we don't get any more requests? Will you always give a negative opinion when dossiers are submitted at the Council of Ministers which are not in line with the budgetary tables? Can you commit yourself to putting the budgetary control project into the planning process already? One of the major problems of this budget negotiation is that the Prime Minister has started far too late. He has therefore placed himself in a weak negotiating position. Why? Because all the power is with the left-wing parties. Mrs Lalieux, you have once again negotiated very well in this area. All reform departments, all cost drivers are in left-wing hands, namely work, pensions, investment policy and climate policy. All the money departments are in left-wing hands. The negotiations have therefore been very well negotiated, but because Mr De Croo has taken far too little account of this, he has started much too late. This meant that the figures had to be messed up at the end. Everyone can see that. It's just obvious. Madam Secretary of State, you can play a role in this by ensuring that this does not happen next time. I would like to ask you very specifically whether you are committed to starting budgetary control in the summer of 2022, as was the custom of the previous government? I was at a luncheon the other day where Professor Moesen was present. That was his main recommendation, just start early. This will also be appreciated because of the style of your government, which says that no agreements should be concluded at night. One must work wisely, with knowledge, not at the last moment, under the guillotine. Get on with it in time. Madam Secretary of State, it's an obvious question, but I'm gonna ask them anyway. Are you committed to this? Please don't come up with an answer when we check and monitor every day. We have already had this discussion in committee. I would like to hear your commitment to start serious budgetary control, the drafting of the budget for 2023, in July next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that this agreement has been paid off. Madam Secretary of State, I fear that the price of this is your credibility. I do not think that is fair, because I know you as someone who takes her job seriously and deals with the debate in Parliament in an open and correct manner. However, I fear that you will be the child of the account here. I hope you refuse to play that game, that you speak your own language and that you pierce the hocus pocus yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u71	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the advantage of being the last speaker is, of course, that I can draw some conclusions. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to draw some conclusions from this hour-long debate. Of course, I'm going to ask some final questions. I have 13 questions for you. Your budget is, of course, hanging in the balance. I hope you will be able to answer me adequately. I'm gonna take a look at the CD&V band. I think Minister Van Peteghem has landed again in the meantime. If there are insufficient answers, perhaps Minister Van Peteghem will have to come here to answer our outstanding questions. Madam Secretary of State, I hope you can answer all our questions. This government is kicking the can. This government continues to extend the hot potato for itself. Kicking the can down the road. On the financial, fiscal and budgetary fronts, the government statement mainly contains many vague promises, half-hearted measures and disappointing reform plans. Madam Secretary of State, as you know, the focus of these budgetary negotiations was mainly on the energy bill. Let me be clear, that's important. In the meantime, that energy bill has become like a second tax bill in this country. Of course, it is necessary and crucial to address this problem. This government is taking action for the weakest. That is a good thing. Let me also make it clear, however, that a middle-class category, the ordinary Flemings, can fall out of the boat by this government and, above all, by non-policy in this area and get into trouble. My colleague, Reccino Van Lommel, already discussed this energy bill this morning. Don't worry, I'm not going to go into that again. It is important, from the Finance and Budget Committee, to stress that one third of the gas bill and no less than two thirds of the electricity bill today consist of all kinds of charges and taxes, which have nothing to do with real energy costs. A further 21 % will be added. While the Flemish and, above all, the federal government can cash through many taxes and VAT, ministers come up with alms to pretend they want to make an effort. Madam Secretary of State, if you really want to help the many families who are right to worry about whether they will continue to be able to pay their invoices at the end of the month, you will not be proposing to replace one of so many taxes on the large electricity bill with an excise duty. For the record, that's a tissue for the bleeding. You must come up with thorough measures and not fool the citizens. Those thorough measures are very simple. They were also tabled by our group in committee. Remove all tax junk from the energy bill and reduce the VAT rate on energy to 6%. The same applies to pump prices. The federal government is now able to cash huge amounts of money through the many charges and taxes on petrol and diesel, but we did not hear a word about that during these budget negotiations. We do not hear a word from this government about the prices of petrol and diesel at the pump, hence my first question. What will this government do about pump prices? Of these prices for petrol and diesel, a lot of money disappears in the pocket of the budget. The proper discussion of the energy bill has caused the budget negotiations to be completely underscrewed. Next year, this must be clear to Parliament and we will be faced with a deficit of about EUR 20 billion. Madam Secretary of State, in the summer, in accordance with the government agreement, you proposed an effective budgetary effort of 3 billion. Mr Loones mentioned it earlier. However, the PS and the Greens said that was far too much. They wanted to make a maximum effort of 1 billion. Then Prime Minister De Croo came up with a very predictable and transparent Belgian compromise: we are making an effort of 2 billion. There is a mistake in the media about this effort of EUR 2 billion. You played that well. In the media, the figure of EUR 2.4 billion is circulating, but you are, of course, putting the press and the public on the wrong track. After all, you have EUR 400 million in new policies. There is therefore only an effort of EUR 2 billion on a deficit of EUR 20 billion. That's peanuts. That's kicking the can down the road. You kick the can out in front of you. Hence a second question to you, Mrs De Bleeker, who is presenting herself in the press as the Margaret Thatcher of this government. Whether Margaret Thatcher will be satisfied with that is another question. I think she's already turned around twice in her grave: a first time at our country's massive budget deficit, the blood red figures, and a second time at the huge state debt in this country. I think this would be unacceptable to her. So you stand up as the iron lady of this government, but apparently you have not succeeded in allowing this government to hold on to the coalition agreement. The government agreement talks about a fixed effort of 0.2%, EUR 1 billion, and a variable effort, as you said, of EUR 0.4 billion or EUR 2 billion. Together, this is EUR 3 billion. How did that happen, Mrs. Secretary of State? Don't you regret that? Was it necessary to bring that back to the European budget rules by 2023, the famous 3% deficit? Will we be able to avoid being put on the European criminal bench in 2023? Clearly, colleagues, the ruling political class in this country is no longer able to make real decisions. The government has set the bar low for itself, in particular a budgetary effort of up to EUR 2 billion on a total deficit of EUR 20 billion. Madam Secretary of State, that's not serious. It is not a credible exercise to make this country's debt-sick finances smooth again. Again so kicking the can down the road. The European Commission estimates the deficit for this country at 4,4% of GDP by 2022. For comparison, the Scandinavian countries and the Netherlands are expected to have a deficit of 0.7% on average in 2022. In Belgium 4.4% and 0.7% in Scandinavia and the Netherlands. Belgium is once again joining the so-called Club Med countries, the group of weak and guilty southern European countries. A responsible fiscal policy ensures that the government can implement the policies that society needs. In order to cope with crises, we have seen this over the past period, Madam Secretary of State, we need sound public finances. The political class in this country has failed collectively. Belgium was not prepared for the corona crisis. Countries such as the Netherlands and Germany have been able to do much more for their own companies and residents because they did have the necessary reserves. The Decroo government has therefore reached an agreement on reducing the budget deficit by EUR 2 billion, bringing the total deficit of all governments together to EUR 20 billion. However, over 1 billion of this effort, which is half of it, has already been decided at government level. The main reason for this is the fight against fraud. The Minister of Finance replied here yesterday to a question I asked Mr Devriendt about better anti-fraud measures to improve cooperation between the police and the judiciary. Well, Madam Secretary of State, that's how far we were by now. I hope that we do not have to become ministers in order to reach that conclusion. The Minister also said yesterday that at the beginning of June this year a fraud plan was proposed with 29 points. Since that press conference, the millions and billions of dollars for the budget have apparently been rolling in. If only it were that easy... I asked you earlier in the committee, but I also asked the Minister of Finance. However, I have never received an answer. Have those 29 points been calculated yet? Are you prepared to share this figure with Parliament? This year, this plan will have to raise EUR 200 million, EUR 400 million next year, EUR 700 million in 2023, from 2024 onwards, even more than EUR 1 billion. In reality, we see that in the field of tax fraud, too, the justice system has to let go of the reins, which we discussed yesterday in the debate. How much of the EUR 200 million registered for this year has been achieved so far? To what extent are the proposed amounts realistic? An additional fact is that the Brussels federal judicial police are now apparently throwing the towel in the ring. According to the government, fraud involving corona aid should also yield a further EUR 110 million. Madam Secretary of State, do you think that amount is realistic and incurable? EUR 1 billion of firm efforts and EUR 1 billion of variable efforts are committed. One half of the 2 billion budget efforts, as I have just explained, are based on loose sand, hot air, talk and announcement policy, including the policy of announcing the fraud plan. The other half, again 1 billion, refers to the famous variable effort. Last week, on the VRT news, the Minister of Finance was called the man of taxation, which is indeed the correct name. Perhaps, under the Vivaldi government, we should no longer speak of the Minister of Finance, but of the Minister of Taxation, which I think is a more correct statement. There are two promises in the coalition agreement. The first promise is that no new taxes will be introduced, and if they do, then with respect for the people who work, undertake and save. The second promise is that the overall budgetary effort will be distributed according to the key of a third expenditure, a third revenue and a third miscellaneous. In recent days, it has become very clear that nothing of these great promises is true. Both Open Vld, your party, Madam Secretary of State, and, of course, the MR, Mr Piedboeuf, underlines that there will be no new taxes or that they will be kept at least to a minimum. However, anyone who splits up that billion variable resources sees that three quarters of them, EUR 733 million, consist of new taxes. I would like to discuss some of those taxes in more detail. First of all, I'm naming the security tax. Those are insecure income, which the government charges itself richly with. By 2020 alone, the securities tax will have to raise 430 million euros. In the meantime, however, the fee is already being challenged by the Constitutional Court. So it's just a question of whether the patched-up version will have the same fate as the original effect tax. Our group has repeatedly warned against this. The first securities tax paid less than originally budgeted and was eventually even destroyed by the Constitutional Court. Madam Secretary of State, that is why my fourth question to you is the following. As Secretary of State for the Budget, do you think it is justified to include securities tax fully in the budget, given the uncertain recovery, moreover, for a sum of EUR 430 million, which is an estimate that is consistent with the facts? Whatever the turn of events, as I stressed yesterday in the debate, the impact tax does indeed affect the small saver. Banks and insurers offering branch 23 products charge at least part of the new tax to the small saver through the management costs. The coalition agreement states that there will be no new taxes and that a measure will always be implemented with respect for people who work, save and undertake. Nothing could be further from the truth. Small savers are indeed affected by the current government. Then there are the excise duties on tobacco and the VAT on tobacco. Excise duties on traditional tobacco products will be substantially increased in 2022. This was confirmed by the Prime Minister here during the debate. Includes new taxes for new tobacco products, such as e-cigarettes or heated tobacco. The government is aiming at a small half billion euros in additional tobacco revenues for 2022. On the one hand, the VAT and excise budget line amounts to EUR 308 million and, on the other hand, the tax-shift compensation for excise duties on tobacco amounts to EUR 120 million. If I put both amounts together, I get 428 million euros. In 2024, this amount amounts to more than half a billion euros, EUR 640 million on tobacco products. On the one hand, there is the VAT and excise duty line for tobacco amounting to EUR 480 million and, on the other hand, a tax-shift compensation for excise duties on tobacco amounting to EUR 160 million. When I put both amounts together, I come to a total of 640 million euros. I would like to ask you a fifth question. Can you explain this budgetary technique to us? In the explanatory memorandum on excise duties, the government said that it was aiming for a generation without tobacco. You're gonna have to explain to us how that works. Everyone has to stop smoking, but first all smokers together have to cough up more than half a billion in taxes. Everyone has to stop smoking, but preferably by 2025, when the new government starts. That budgetary technique is absolutely not clear to us. My predecessor mentioned the job creation there earlier. What strikes me is that the closing line of the budget is the payback effects on job creation, on top of the jobs the Planning Bureau is expecting for the coming years anyway. It promises little good that Vivaldi has been using the tricks of the foor for one year to make the budget final. First, the government assumed 5,000 extra jobs, later that there were 10,000 in the messages and at the eleventh hour it was 13,500, of course to make the budget table sound. That figure was clearly adjusted until the budget table was correct. In my professional career I was an auditor and we called that phenomenon plugs. To make an Excel knock and roll to the desired result, one parameter is pushed up or screwed back, until the desired result is obtained. Immediately the 13,500 jobs raise 380 million extra for the budget. By the end of the government, it will be over 1.2 billion. Those are staggering figures. So your government wants 13,500 extra jobs, on top of what the Planning Bureau has already predicted. The Planning Bureau itself expects only 13,200 jobs to be added in 2022. So you want to do more than double that, and in the long term that will have to bring about 1.2 billion. That seems more than double, given the shortage on the labour market, especially in Flanders, completely unrealistic. This is not just what we say, but also what employers say. They say your government won't make it because you're not taking the right measures to get more people to work. That is why I have a sixth question for you, Madam Secretary of State. Could you also explain this budgetary technique? Where did you get this staggering revenue for the budget? Are you prepared to share the full calculation with Parliament? There will be 13,500 jobs. There are 190 million savings planned and 190 million additional revenues, together 380 million for next year. If I split that 380 million by 13,500 extra jobs, I'm gonna get a $28,000 return per extra job. Can you confirm that? Is that effective the number you have in mind for an extra job created? Would you care to clarify that? I see that many of the colleagues from the MR are present. I would like to talk about the new taxes. Both Open Vld and MR have stressed that the new taxes would be limited to a minimum. However, that is a question of perception, because with things such as the securities tax, the additional excise duty on tobacco, the removal of the diesel discount for the transport sector, additional contributions for furnished accommodation and expats, and so on, three quarters of the variable effort is made from more revenue, so new taxes. Last year it was obvious that a government dominated by Wallonia and especially the left was going down the road of more taxes, but because this is a bit sensitive to the colleagues of Open Vld and the MR is opting for sneaky, secretive and devious tax increases. It is usually about well-hidden tax increases, sometimes hidden in the transposition of European rules. I will mention some of them: the e-commerce directive, 270 million by 2024, the plastic tax, 153 million by 2022 and the non-indexation of tax reductions and exemptions. The deduction for, for example, pension savings or the purchase of an electric bicycle remains frozen at the level of 2019. This measure will lead to a sneak-in tax increase every year and will amount to EUR 66 million of additional new taxes by 2024. The more expensive fines that he's paid for, I see he's gone. Minister Van Quickenborne is worth 43 million euros for 2022. VAT for dentist and physiotherapist will have to raise 20 million in 2022. Keep it up. For example, last year, this government alone came up to EUR 1.5 billion in additional taxes. We have been able to calculate that last year this government alone came up to EUR 1.5 billion in additional taxes, and another EUR 750 million in this variable effort. With this vivaldi government, this brings us to EUR 2.25 billion in new taxes. This is completely contrary to the promise made by this government when it took office. There would be no new taxes. Nothing could be further from the truth. Those who work, save and undertake are indeed being taxed more today. Vivaldi is an unadulterated tax government, which is not surprising, because it is dominated by the PS, among other things. The party chairmen of this majority just don't roll on the streets fighting. But all this bickering of these government parties cannot hide the fact that this is a tax government that does not know its equal in Belgian history. Liberals do not promise new taxes, but since the securities tax we have had to take tax after tax with this government. Despite all these public revenues, Belgium is still among the weak and indebted countries of Europe today. This government with 7 parties and 4 different ideologies does not even succeed in starting with the restoration of the blood red budget figures and the towering public debt. Of course, this left-wing and anti-Flemish government does not touch the sacred houses. I mean the billions of invoices for migration, the billions of transfers between Flanders and Wallonia, the billions we pay to Europe and finally the many millions of euros wasted here in this house and in the entire political system. Save on newcomers, save on Europe, save on transfers, on the political class and the royal family, but do not save on our own people. Colleagues, even the financial favor regime of top sportsmen is only marginalized. The Belgian government does not grant the Belgian professional football just 200 million euros annually in the form of minimum social charges and tax reductions. In the end, only 43 million was saved. Apparently, one man can stop all this, our good friend Bouchez. We read in the press that Flemings wanted to save another 50 million in football at the negotiating table. So not 43 million, but actually almost 95 million euros. That is my seventh question to you, Madam Secretary of State: Is that correct? Did the Flemings intend to continue at the government table? Did they want to save more on professional football? I'd like to hear about that. Then I come to the so-called broad fiscal reform. With raging statements, this so-called broad tax reform was repeatedly announced by this government, but it finally landed in a kind of mini-tax shift. The mountain gave birth to a mouse. In November last year, the Flemish Interest tabled a legislative proposal in this Parliament to delete the special social security contributions, in order to abolish this anti-social tax. This tax has very serious consequences, particularly for people and low-wage workers. We are therefore pleased that the Minister of Finance shares that view, but we deeply regret that the Minister wants to spread it over many years. He also wants to replace this tax with other taxes. The Minister's intention to reduce the special contribution to social security is not a real tax reduction but rather a tax shift. The government seizure in this country is much higher than in the Netherlands or Germany, as you all know, colleagues. The abolition of the special social security contribution was, of course, the ideal opportunity to close the gap with countries such as the Netherlands and Germany. This can also be financed perfectly by savings. The institutions in this country are very expensive, so there are many savings that can be made that will not hurt the people at all. I have already mentioned the invoices for migration, Europe, the transfers, but we are also thinking, for example, of the royal house, the surplus Senate, the overly generous party funding and, of course, not to mention the costs of asylum and migration. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to talk to you about a number of individual issues, which I hope you will also know the answer to, because we have not yet learned much about them in these debates. First of all, the second residences. This federal government does not touch the tax advantage when purchasing a second residence. This was also confirmed by your partymate, Vincent Van Quickenborne, in the Flemish press. That's what my eighth question is about. Can you explain why the tax advantage when purchasing a second home is not abolished? We thought there was a consensus on this between the Flemish parties? Mr Loones rightly pointed out yesterday that on our Flemish coast many inhabitants, West Flanders, do not find a home in their own region because capitalist second-timers buy up the houses and so artificially increase prices. We are asking for a solution. The next issue is the European Recovery Fund. On the basis of the provisional figures, Belgium would receive EUR 5.9 billion from that fund. The budget provides for an investment envelope of 200 million for 2022. Together with the European Recovery Fund, this should ensure sustainable and digital growth. That's what the government calls it. But the question of what happens if Belgium, as feared, gets EUR 750 million less out of that European Recovery Fund, the government pushes for itself. That's what my ninth question is about. What level will be charged for less revenue? How will these lower revenues be distributed among the different entities of this country? Will that be proportionate, or by any other method? What procedure will be followed? Can the federal government state its position on the distribution of the expected less revenue? I think it is important that this question be answered because it concerns a considerable amount of investment. My tenth question concerns higher energy prices and rising inflation. If we have understood correctly, but perhaps you can confirm it, Madam Secretary of State, the central index may be exceeded in January, but you will not take this into account in the budget table we have received and in the budgetary exercise that Parliament may be pursuing in November and December. I have questioned you a number of times about this, and then you say that I should not worry about inflation, because the energy measures are actually budget-neutral. I disagree. The Court of Auditors does not agree with that either. If the Court of Auditors describes the spillover index, then it has very clear calculations of the excess expenditure for benefits, among other things. You're probably underestimating two other effects. Firstly, inflation will greatly increase benefits. There is a budget of around EUR 100 billion for our social security. If expenditure changes by a certain percentage as a result of inflation, there is an immediate impact of billions of euros on the budget. Secondly, because of higher energy prices and rising inflation, commodity prices are also rising. This is what certain companies, think of BASF in Antwerp, stop the production of a number of products, thus reducing economic growth. This also undermines consumer confidence. If people see an increasing energy bill fall into the bus, if they see their advance being increased, they become more cautious and will postpone large purchases. We fear that the figures in the budget are far overestimated. I would like to know your opinion on this, Madam Secretary of State. My eleventh question concerns public expenditure. If we have the right figures and I have calculated it correctly, public expenditure is 55% of GDP. That's huge, colleagues. Moreover, in 2022 they will still be EUR 20 billion higher than before the corona crisis. Can you confirm that, Madam Secretary of State? Do you think that's justified? twelfthly, there is a lot of unrest on the social media about your budget. Many single people fear that your budget will fail on the so-called single test. The budget would be unfair to single people. The fiscal policy pursued by the government further strengthens the disadvantage of the single people. I am thinking, for example, of single mothers with children. Is it true that the government has not taken account of the single people in the entire budgetary exercise? Is it true that the fiscal disadvantage of single people will only be worse in the coming years? I have a 13th question. The aircraft tax doesn't seem to be very well thought out. After paying his gas bill, his electricity bill and his tax letter still manage to go on vacation in the summer, thanks to purple-green may soon pay extra via an aircraft tax. How much will that tax actually be? Which passengers will actually have to pay that tax? Today, that is still completely unclear. Will that aircraft tax now be 5, 20, 30 euros or more? Can you even get a tax like that? A number of specialists are shielding with the Chicago Convention. That would prevent charges on departure. According to the Chicago Convention, no charges may be levied on aircraft departures. Can you clarify that? How much will the aircraft tax be? Is it even allowed to be collected in this country? Is that even legal? I look forward, like colleagues, to your answers to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u72	Madam President, allow me to start today with the most important message: with the second budget, it becomes clear that our country once again has a real budgetary policy. The fall of the previous government led to a very long political crisis. There was no majority for two years to approve the budget, there were no budgetary measures for two years, no efforts for two years. To top it all off, during the political crisis, we were also hit by the worst health crisis since the Second World War. The corona crisis is not yet completely behind us, but the time of budgetary powerlessness is behind us. The government is putting our country back on track today. It addresses several challenges, namely ensuring economic recovery, releasing resources for new challenges and ensuring fiscal sustainability, and realises them with this agreement. This means that the path to budgetary recovery has been taken, with a dynamic fiscal policy, which can respond to the current economic situation. In addition to the fixed effort of 0.2 %, laid down in the coalition agreement, a variable effort can be made. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what the government has succeeded in today. Next year, in 2022, we will make these variable efforts. The economic recovery has started and we are making this extra effort. That extra effort is even higher than the steady effort. This additional effort is 0.3 %. Together with the firm effort, the total amount involved is EUR 2.4 billion, as you yourself pointed out. We do not do that because Europe demands or demands that of us. The general escape clause is still in effect. We do because our children, the future generations, expect us to do so. A government that puts its finances in order is the government that prepares for future challenges. Just because the budget is so crucial, I am glad that you are still here today, long after the start of the session, to discuss it and to ask me questions about it. It goes without saying that I will try to respond to this as well as possible, even though we will, of course, discuss it further in committee. Allow me first to answer the questions in general. I hear on the one hand saying that we count ourselves rich and that we are talking about bubbles of air and soap, but on the other hand I hear mention that we are not ambitious enough. Neither one of them checks out. A budget is more than figures and tables. It's a representation of norms and values. Standards and values shared and pursued by this government. If we want to make a high effort to combat fraud, it is because we want to ensure that fraud does not pay and never pays. That is why we are recruiting additional inspectors. If we are committed to employment, it is because we want it to pay off. That it's good to work and that it's better than not working. And yes, there are substantial sums of money on that. That is the indulgence of our ambitions in these matters. You know that in general I try to follow things as closely as possible. You can then assume that I will continue to follow up on the work of my colleagues in order to ensure that these ambitions are fulfilled. I also hear saying we're gonna spend it all back right away. I think it's obvious that this isn't true. We are making a considerable effort and also making funds available for new expenditure, that is correct. It seems healthy to me that we should seek these resources from the government itself rather than continue to spend. As already mentioned, this is partly a one-off expenditure. Either way, however you turn it around, the structural deficit, the big problem of this country that we are spending more than we are getting in, is reduced by the efforts we are going to make here. This will continue to be reduced by the efforts we will make over the next few years. Finally, I have a third general answer. I hear that the calculation of certain payback effects is being questioned. This has already been discussed in detail in the previous debates. Of course, we base our budget on sound calculations, for example calculations by the Planbureau. I will also continue to ensure, during the implementation of the budget, that the picture continues to be correct and that we adjust where necessary. Now I will deal with the more specific questions, first of all with the questions about the payback effects. In determining the pay-back effects of labour market reforms and the return-to-work paths for disabled persons per person, we have based ourselves on scientific reports. The payback effect may vary considerably and depends on the amount of the benefit received by the person concerned, but also on the wage at which the person returns to work. A review of available scientific documentation shows that a substantial recovery effect can be expected. Studies carried out by Dulbea, for example, even point to the fact that the proceeds may amount to more than EUR 40,000 for the activation of a long-term unemployed person in Brussels. However, we have based ourselves on several documents from the Federal Planning Office and we have been more cautious by working with an average of EUR 28 000, as suggested in that report. This income corresponds to an unemployed person working at a gross monthly wage of 2,300 to 2,400 euros, which is below the average monthly wage. For the other categories that concern specific target groups, e.g. the back-to-work coordinators, another, sometimes higher return effect per FTE has been taken into account, but this has also been checked out with the Planning Bureau. I have always said that it is essential for the budget to have important reforms of the labour market and that work should be made more profitable. This government is working on that. You have heard this repeatedly from my colleagues during the last day and night. This government intends to put more than 20,000 people to work next year, in addition to the spontaneous growth of 13,200 people foreseen in the projections of the Federal Planning Office. This is a necessary objective in order to avoid increasing taxes or reducing benefits. Our objective in the coalition agreement is indeed to achieve 80% employment by 2030. You said 2024, but it's 2030. That's very important, because it's an essential part... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u73	I heard someone say it would be 80 percent by 2030. (...):(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u74	Then I misunderstood. So it is indeed by 2030. That is very important, because it is an essential element if we want to make our country and our budget structurally healthy again. The measures that are being taken are an important step, but of course we also need time to do so. We are also counting on the regions to pursue active labour market policies. All governments, as was said last night, have this objective and we are all going to work towards it. We are taking an important step in that direction today. But in every budget round, we will have to look at how we strengthen our efforts. In addition to the measures we are now deciding on, there will also be a need to develop measures in the future. This is only normal in a changing society, the government must continue to change the rules and continue to adapt to the economic situation. We will. Unfortunately, Mr Loones, I cannot help saying that you have not asked certain questions to other state secretaries. The budgetary tables delivered to Parliament on Tuesday already show the investment impulse of one billion. In this way, there has been transparent communication. If I'm not mistaken, you got the tables this afternoon. If it isn't, I'll make sure this happens. The resources of the European Relance Fund (RFF) have not yet been definitively committed. Only in the course of next year will we finally know how much all the governments in Belgium will receive. Then we can evaluate the exact impact. That may be less than accepted, as Mr Vermeersch said, because our economy is more resilient than initially expected. That is certainly good news. The distribution of these resources is between the various authorities, as agreed. If it will eventually be less, it will also be pro rata less and will be looked at what that means to everyone. The government has decided not to discuss the pension reform during the conclave, but the pension reform is an important point in Belgium's financial sustainability. We must devote sufficient time to this reform. Here too, I will keep a close eye on affordability. This will have an impact over the next two decades, so that is of course very important in budgetary terms. The salary increase at the Ministry of Defence will be rolled out from 2022. There was an agreement on that within the core. This will be fully absorbed within the Defence budget. The Secretary of Defense will soon come to the government with a new prepared file. This government is working on fair taxation that we also want to steer. This has to do with certain choices which you yourself have already referred to. We take measures that make the playing field more level and fairer and we steer where it is appropriate. Inflation has risen in recent months due to rising energy prices. As a result, it is expected that the spillover index will be exceeded more and more rapidly. In June it was expected that the overrun would not take place until 2023. In September, the overrun was expected in 2022 and is currently expected to take place in January 2022. As you know, the overrun of the central index one month later leads to the adjustment of social benefits and two months later to an increase in public wages and thus to an overall increase in public expenditure. An impact of higher inflation is considered to be neutral for the government because, of course, it also leads to higher revenue from social contributions, from corporate tax and from VAT revenues. In particular, I will continue to stress what I think is important, and that is the budgetary recovery. I will ensure that expenditure is in line with the budget, but also that the funds released reach their objective. You're saying I can't say I'll check and monitor anymore. But I'm gonna keep doing that. This is essential in order to be able to monitor the situation properly and to assess whether or not certain budgets have been spent and reach the objective for which they were originally registered. On the timing of the budget, I think you underestimate how long we have been working on it. Already before the summer and even during the summer, there has been a great deal of work on the technical preparation of the budget. The planning went very smoothly until the summer holidays. The technical bilaterals were completed on 22 June. After that, IKW's took place in the months of June and July. The monitoring committee's report was discussed on 14 July. On 15 July the implementation of the firm effort was knocked off and on 19 July there was a meeting on more questions and new initiatives. On 20 July there was a summary meeting on the work and preparation of the post-summer core. What matters is that the budget is there. By the way, tomorrow we will also meet the other deadline for submitting our draft budget plan to Europe. By the way, I'd like to commit myself to getting you that plan at the same time. I did that last year, too. I shall then come to the whole debate on the number of billions. As Secretary of State for the Budget, I have put forward a number of scenarios and made clear which of them I prefer. Of course, that's my job, too. As Secretary of State for the Budget, I must have ambitious budgetary targets. As well as other ministers and secretaries of state also have their tasks and objectives. You've all been in politics a long time. So you also know that there are several things that need to be balanced. The question is how, at the same time, we can achieve the economic recovery, free up new resources for new challenges and make budgetary efforts. I think we can say that we have succeeded. We are making a considerable effort of 2.4 billion. There will be 0.4 billion new policies, but we have found the 2.4 billion. That's a lot more than a few parties initially wanted. So they've kind of moved in my direction after all. I think that's how I played my part at the table. Of course, that is also my job and I will continue to do it, because a budget should not be drawn up alone. Of course, it has to be carried out afterwards. I referred to it and you, Mr Loones. Any budget file that gets to my office, I analyse it well. What do I mean by that? We subscribe certain budgets on certain lines. Then, of course, we come up with the demand to make certain expenditure on the basis of these lines. In doing so, I am checking very closely whether the expenditure that is planned is, of course, done in conjunction with a finance inspector and whether the questions for certain budgets are in line with what they were originally intended for in the budget line. We have given corona support to employers, employees and the self-employed. This has helped our economy to survive the corona period well. Our administrations have worked hard to get that support as quickly as possible from those who had a hard time. This means that no comprehensive control was carried out at that stage to verify that all the conditions for the payment of the aid were met. The federal government has already spent EUR 11 billion on temporary unemployment and double bridging rights alone. It is important that those who have received undue support repay that aid. Under a realistic assumption, with the strengthening of the inspection service, the 1% of aid unduly granted can be recovered, i.e. EUR 110 million of revenue. It is important in this context to strengthen the social inspection, firstly because we do not tolerate profiteers of the social safety net, which has been strong during the corona period. Secondly, we cannot allow the core tasks of the social inspectors to be put under pressure by the corona check. The results of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service for the first trimester of 2021, in particular 167 million, are positive and higher than expected. I do not think I have to go into the whole energy debate, which I was here yesterday for a long time and which was also partly followed at night and at night. There are choices made around the table with the intention to support those who need it most. Of course, we can have a whole economic debate about the causes of the rise in energy prices, which I would even like to do, but that is a global problem. If you look at the energy prices in the neighbouring countries, even if that brings us a little too far, Belgium is not so bad in itself. Moreover, it is mainly due to the problems last winter, which prevented the creation of reserves, and the expectations for the coming winter. But perhaps we should have that debate at another time. As far as public debt is concerned, the full calculation is still under way, because the budgetary decisions will be delivered to Europe by tomorrow in a draft budgetary plan. Public debt will fall slightly in 2022, but further efforts will be needed in the long term. Budgetary policy has always had that point of departure and is therefore dynamic. That is to say, we are making efforts at the moment they are possible, without compromising the recovery of our economy. As far as the regulation on top sportsmen and women is concerned, I have already said that some decisions come from compromises, with all the parties around the table being listened to. We have found a good compromise here that meets the legitimate aspirations and is, at the same time, more fiscally fair. The proposed tax shift is not yet a comprehensive tax reform, but a balanced package of budgetary measures. The abolition of the tax advantage for the second dwelling will undoubtedly be on the table when we talk about the broad fiscal reform. During the budgetary conclave, the framework for the landing tax was created. At the moment, the precise modalities are being worked out to ensure that the budgeted yield is feasible and that it can be imposed in accordance with a comprehensive legal framework. Of course, this also requires economic data. Over the last few days, I have heard figures about the aviation movements of 2020. Of course, these are not necessarily the correct figures in a normal year without corona. In the coming weeks, the economic and legal aspects and the modalities must be clarified according to the classification of airline tickets. Of course, I will be able to base the budget on in-depth studies in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have answered more or less all the questions. If you still have specific questions of detail or very technical questions, you can rest assured that we will deal with them in committee. Allow me to return to the most important conclusion, which I believe is that we have embarked on the road to budgetary recovery and that we are going further along this road. That's important, because it's the way to get control of our sovereign debt, which I'm really working on. If we don't get the sovereign debt under control, the sovereign debt will eventually get us under control. It's about money going to pay off, money that we can't free up to new challenges. Partly because of the efforts we are making today, we are able to bring public debt under control. Before the start of the government, it seemed that the government debt would rapidly go to 120 percent of our gross domestic product. We have averted that scenario. We will continue to do so, because I think that is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, I will not repeat or continue with the technical questions. We will meet regularly in committee. I just want to make a few points very briefly. First of all, you're proving again that you're a team player. It's a pleasure for you. However, I would have preferred you to have proved yourself as a Minister for the Budget. Such a person is not very keen on being seen in the team; such a person dares to be sharp. Such a person does not just give a speech from a prime minister, as you have partly done here. Such a person acts as the vigilant finder. However, it is a pleasure for you to be a team player. Secondly, you say that tomorrow the Draft Budget Plan document will be sent to Europe and that your services are working hard to incorporate the texts into the tables. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you very kindly if we can have those texts. Would it be possible to send them not to the newspaper editors first, but to Parliament immediately when they are delivered to the European Commission? It would be nice if we could agree. I have some very specific comments to make on your speech. It is logical that you cannot follow everything, but you seem to have missed certain debates. You say that the tax for second stays will come on the table when there is a comprehensive tax reform. I am terribly sorry, but the Prime Minister replied to Joy Donné that this legislative period would not be followed by this broad fiscal reform. That is literally said in the debate. You also say that the target for the labour market is 80% and that you know that the government will not achieve this without the commitment of the regions. I would, however, like you to give them the tools to achieve these objectives. In addition, you are pleased that you have been able to play your role and that the fact that the government is saving EUR 2 billion is proof of that. I disagree. The government agreement says that you would save EUR 3 billion. That was knocked off. The only thing Open Vld should have done is stick to the letter of the coalition agreement. You didn't have to negotiate that. You paid a price for this last year and now you are paying another price for it. You were in a strong position at that point. You simply had to ask for the implementation of the coalition agreement, but you did not. The Prime Minister has forced you to go weaker than what was agreed, which was already weak. We get EUR 750 million less from the European Union. You call that good news. You say that we cannot talk about a tax government: do not say tax increases, say fair taxation. I've been wondering what that means for a long time. That concept is defined differently by different people. Now we know what the definition of the Secretary of State for the Budget is: a fair tax is a higher tax, so more taxes are paid. I can go on for a while, but I won't. What I noticed is that you said that you started working very hard, that you started even before the summer. I think that's bad news. I really thought this was the result of one last budget night's mess. So my conclusion is that it is not of not wanting, but of not being able. I don't even blame you for that. That's Belgium, that's that congenital mediocrity, that's the country that can't do any better, that's the birth block. There is only one way that we can get out of it, that we can avoid bankruptcy, and that is by radically choosing the future. That's the future of Flanders. Please strengthen our Länder, because it will no longer come from your government and from this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, I am going to respond punctually to a number of issues. I'm not gonna stretch it endlessly, either. I'll start with the plane tax. You say that you will continue to do calculations and see if it can be done under the law of the treaty. In your explanatory statement, you show that the government has thrown something into the budget table that still has to be calculated afterwards, and that it is considered afterwards whether it is realistic at all. That is a very remarkable statement for a Secretary of State for the Budget. Then I come to my questions about the footballers. Did the Flemings really want to continue at the negotiating table? You did not answer that question. I'll answer you. In the meantime, it is clear that the MR, and actually only one man, Mr Bouchez, has stopped the whole adjustment of the deduction. Nor did you answer my questions about pump prices. Yesterday these questions were also completely ignored, up to twice, by Mr Servais Verherstraeten. In 2018, when prices at the pump were also rising enormously, Vooruit and CD&V were full of solutions for the prices at the pump. I will also answer this question of my own. What is this government going to do about pump prices? Dear Flemish citizen, best citizen of this country, the government is not going to do anything about the prices at the pump. The money is simply put into the pocket of the budget. Madam Secretary of State, you must admit that, as with the increases in the energy bill, taxes and taxes in the government are increasing. So you just put that in the bottomless Belgian wells. So if you fill the tank, you actually fill the bottomless wells of Belgium. That is the only conclusion that can be drawn from your non-answer, Madam Secretary of State. Fourthly, you still seem to believe in fairy tales when you say that inflation and rising prices are budget-neutral. I think that's a very special wishful thinking. You should dare to say it as Secretary of State for the Budget to Parliament, as responsible for the figures. I would not dare to say it out loud in your place, because your claim is absolutely incorrect. There will be an impact on growth, because inflation will slow down growth. There will also be a huge impact on social security, a budget of EUR 100 billion, as benefits are rising. Of course, revenue is also rising, and you are right about that, but that is a delayed effect, which cannot and must not be denied. Anyone who knows the numbers knows that. A fifth point is job creation. You confirm my calculation of 28,000 euros per job. This is, of course, a very optimistic calculation, because activation mainly refers to low-wage workers. Not everyone earns EUR 40,000 on an annual basis, but you mentioned this figure. This 28,000 euro is also exaggerated, given the current shortage of labour on the labour market, especially in Flanders. The Planbureau's expectations that the job creation will yield 13,200 jobs are more than doubled by 13,500 jobs a year. You simply filled up the budget table on that point, so that it could roll and produce the right result, because that was ultimately the closing point for your budget. There is also the issue of fraud. You say you'll recruit 40 extra fraud inspectors. You know, Madam Secretary of State, that the federal judicial police have publicly and publicly thrown the towel in the ring. Your government is counting on billions of euros in fraud revenue, while the federal judicial police say there are too few staff. So you are very optimistic there. On the corona support, you say you take 1% of EUR 11 billion, which is 110 million. Why did you not take 0.5%, then the revenue for the budget was EUR 55 million. For example, if you had taken 2%, you would have earned 220 million euros. For example, it is easy to fill a budget table with estimates. My question is whether Minister Van Peteghem's fraud plan has already been quantified, particularly those 29 points? You didn't answer that. Minister Van Peteghem did not reply yesterday either. Obviously, that plan wasn't quantified. Those figures in the budget EUR 200 million for this year up to EUR 1 billion in 2024 have simply been misunderstood with figures. There's no concrete calculation behind that. Madam Secretary of State, my conclusion is as follows. You say that the government has drawn up a good budget because it has done better than the provisional twelfths. The fact that there is a budget is actually a victory in itself. The current government is setting the bar so low that everything can be sold as a victory. In your opinion, the coalition agreement is not a tax reform. That's right. It's a tax increase. The current government is what we would have expected from it in the end, namely an undistorted tax administration. The Flemish Interest will never approve anything. What is going on here, being the budget table and the coalition agreement, is bad for the Fleming. It's bad for future generations. It is also bad for the Flemish interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip133x.u77	Thank you, Mr Vermeersch. This concludes the thematic debates as well as the sitting on Wednesday 13 October at 8:04 p.m. on Thursday 14. That is why the date of the 13th was always indicated. I close this session to reopen a new session and turn the page and start the session on October 14th, but for that the services need about ten minutes. We meet at 8:15.
