ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u1	Mrs Depraetere, in accordance with the government agreement, we want to make it easier for consumers to compare financial and insurance products through a tool that gives consumers insight into, among other things, the cost of these products. Then I received the question from the Artevelde University of Ghent whether students here can mean anything. In the framework of their bachelor's test, they must carry out an assignment. In consultation with my cabinet, the students conducted a market investigation into comparative instruments in the fields of investments, consumers and mortgage loans and insurance products. To support their market research, they have conducted exploratory surveys with citizens and in-depth interviews with experts. The results will be the subject of further research in cooperation with the competent authorities, to explore what can be developed or improved. We want to start with two things in the coming years, namely the current accounts and family insurance. We want to expand the existing FSMA comparison tool for current accounts on a few points. There is more to it than simply comparing prices. This is also part of the discussions with my fellow ministers on a global approach to universal banking services and the distribution of payment machines. For a comparison tool for insurance products, the FSMA has also started an investigation, primarily into family insurance. As Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, I must ensure that the consumer has the necessary and appropriate information to make an informed choice without facing unfair commercial practices. There is therefore no doubt that banks and insurance institutions must provide transparent information to consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, the universal banking service is indeed a first important step, but its roll-out will be equally important. You say you will investigate a number of matters further. Is there any indication of a certain timing for further investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u3	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u4	Not at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question dates back to 16 July, a while ago. Then our country was just confronted with severe water pollution, especially in the south. The damage was enormous and many weeks later it is still so. There is damage to houses, but also cars, complete furniture, personal belongings, etc. There are still a number of uncertainties for a lot of people. That's why I'm asking you to find out who's entitled to what. For example, damage to the home and the furniture can be covered by compulsory fire insurance, but for damage to cars it is less clear, because it is suspected that in this case an omnium insurance was needed. My specific questions are as follows. What costs can or cannot consumers rely on their insurers for? A number of additional measures have been taken. What exactly do they mean? What about victims who don't have fire insurance or omnium insurance? The Rampen Fund can be used for this, but what costs does that entail? Isn't there still a start-up charge to be paid? That wasn't so clear to many people. Finally, how many reports did the FPS Economy receive in the meantime about reimbursement of costs, and how does it proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, fire insurance Simple Risks, which covers, among other things, homes, SMEs and the self-employed, compensates for the damage caused directly to the insured goods by a flood. In addition, the damage to the insured goods is also covered by measures for the security and protection of the goods and persons. Clean-up and demolition costs are also reimbursed. Finally, housing costs and other first aid will be reimbursed. In addition, the coverage can be contractually extended for damage to, for example, garden furniture, outbuildings, greenhouses or terraces. In the case of a flood, a special connection is possible for the damage caused to the contents of cellars located less than 10 cm from the ground. That possible exclusion shall not apply to fixed heating, electricity and heating installations, nor to cellar rooms permanently furnished as living quarters or for the exercise of a profession. Victims who are not insured against fire and are entitled to a living wage or similar allowance on the day of the natural disaster may apply to the OMCW of their municipality for a certificate to submit a file to the Rampenfonds. Victims with damage to a car who have not taken out omnium insurance can still in some cases rely on their fire insurance. In some fire insurance policies, cover is contractually extended to vehicles parked in, for example, the garage or within a certain radius around the house. If victims do not have fire insurance, natural disasters cover or omnibus insurance, they will in principle bear the costs themselves. However, it is recommended to inform the Rampen Fund which is competent in the area in question. In exceptional cases, the Regional Disaster Fund intervenes. The regions themselves determine the extent of the intervention and their conditions. The legislation does not require the FPS Economy to obtain a notification about insurers and reimbursement of costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, many people in the field and the many volunteers from Flanders who are there gave me the suggestion of streamlining communication a little bit better. That is a point of attention and a valid observation. They wonder whether the federal government can not issue a brochure together with Assuralia or with the insurance sector, specifically on all these types of insurance, in the specific case of the floods. That is the problem, because many people find that so many weeks later many people do not know what they are entitled to or are not entitled to do. That's not clear to a lot of people. In the meantime, some people still do not have easy access to that information. That is a suggestion that could be taken on board and that is valuable. Another important point concerns the many administrative burdens that come into play for people who have already lost almost everything. They are then faced with a great many administrative documents, expertise, counter-expertises and so on. Above all, in this situation, it must be possible to move quickly. That seems to me to be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u8	Colleagues, from the beginning, insurance companies were present on the spot alongside disaster victims to help with the opening of the files, to make advances and, more generally, to accompany them in this event via members of their staff or through insurance intermediaries. Due to the very high number of cases, expert visits have spread over time for all insurance companies, regardless of how they work – live or via the Internet. Each insurance company has its own way of doing business. Measures to enable or accelerate drying, such as the hiring of a dehumidifier or the removal of panelling, may be covered by the insurer in so far as such measures are necessary. However, there can be no generalisation, because each case has specific characteristics. It is the expert of the insurance undertaking that determines the measures to be taken. If the expertise cannot happen quickly and the insured person already wants to implement measures, it is absolutely necessary to take photos before taking action. If necessary, an engineer may be asked to confirm the need for the measures and to contact the insurance intermediary or the insurer in advance, so that he can agree to the measures he intends to take. With regard to a crisis of exceptional magnitude, each insurer, like all the other sectors concerned (relief services, authorities) will not fail to draw the maximum amount of lessons from the management of this event when the crisis situation has passed. The aim is to complement and refine their crisis management plan in preparation for the next disaster. However, it is difficult at this stage to conclude that the best practices of insurance companies in managing the flood crisis will be widespread outside of times of crisis. First of all, account must be taken of the different ways in which insurance undertakings operate. The link with insured persons can be made on-line via an intermediary or through a broker and the additional efforts required by the urgency of a crisis must then be taken into account. Each insurance undertaking has its own way of working. It is not possible for the government to intervene in the commercial policy of insurers. On the other hand, it is our role as a government to inform the affected people as best as possible about their rights and obligations. This is done through the various communication channels, including the website of the FPS Economy. My intention is to consult Assuralia with my colleague in charge of the Economy on the lessons to be learned from the management of the flood crisis and on the measures to be foreseen for the management, in the future, of the disasters caused by such phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. When I asked the question on August 10, I had no idea that this September 10, I was going to learn on television that there were still people waiting for their insurance broker to visit. All this time, people had to live with their garbage in the house. It was extremely difficult. In time nonsuspecto, I also had no idea that we were going to have the joint commission yesterday, with the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Defence. We still need to discuss whether Assuralia will come into the Consumer Defense Commission. As Mrs Depraetere proposed, I urge you, as well as the Executive, to work with the assurances that we can work to ensure that the situations of our fellow citizens are resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to add my voice to Mr Vicaire's comment that it takes a very long time for someone to visit the people concerned. In some cases, there may still be some understanding. However, in the people where there are fungi and mushrooms on the wall and the living situation is unhealthy or even life-threatening, as indeed sometimes is the case, the insurer should be able to go by faster. Perhaps the long waiting period is due to a lack of capacity, for which I fully understand. But exceptional circumstances and an exceptional crisis, as you pointed out, should also allow for exceptions from insurers. You noted that it is absolutely necessary to take pictures for the file. However, insurers should also be able to accept ordinary photographs and provide support so that those concerned can make their homes habitable again. That is the minimum we should expect from the insurers. Everyone has their own way of working and they are free in it. I have every sympathy for that. In times of crisis, however, things should be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, robot vacuum cleaners, Smart TV, babyphones: connected objects are everywhere. Recently, two KULeuven researchers have subjected 16 such devices to piracy tests. The experiment identified 54 breaches, including "serious" or "critical" vulnerabilities for 10 products. These breaches allow ill-intentioned individuals to collect personal data from users. Worse, Test-Achats reveals that information lands on servers based in foreign countries, such as China, where, as you know, there is no equivalent to the European GDPR. This is not the first time Test-Achats has discovered security flaws on connected objects. Pending an initiative by the European Commission which is expected to emerge around 2023, Madam Secretary of State, there is a problem in placing these products on the market, and it is necessary to strengthen the pre-market requirements in our country. Do you intend to legislate for connected products to meet more pre-market requirements in order to better respect the confidentiality of data? Until legislation, whether European or federal, is in place, do you intend to strengthen controls on leaks of information from connected objects? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u12	Mr President, Mr Prévot, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I am aware of the growing importance of Internet-connected products for consumers. The sustainable and socially valid use of these products is only possible if they are sufficiently cyber-secured. As it concerns standards for consumer products offered on the market, our country is initially looking at the numerous regulatory initiatives of the European Commission in the framework of the EU cybersecurity strategy proposed in December 2020. The federal government fully supports these initiatives and my cabinet closely follows the work of the EU. As part of the implementation of the European Cybersecurity Regulation, Cybersecurity Act, my administration is working closely with the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB), which is responsible for the general policy on cybersecurity. Almost all devices connected to the Internet are covered by the European Radio Equipment Directive, the Radio Equipment Directive, which includes cyber and data security requirements. The Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) is responsible for the application of this Directive. I would therefore refer you to my colleague in charge of the IBPT, Secretary of State Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the moment. Indeed, as you say, sustainable use is only possible if these objects are sufficiently secure. However, the study of the two professors of KULeuven and the warning signals regularly recorded by Test Achats show that this is unfortunately not the case. I am pleased to learn that your office is attentive to what is happening at European level, which I doubted. But it seems to me that we would have everything to gain from having more proactive legislation in this area as the drifts are becoming more and more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, you refer to the European initiatives that are rightly being taken again. Cyber security is, of course, a problem that needs to be addressed not only at Belgian level but at European level, because the Internet is the ideal place where there are no borders. It is therefore a good thing that we are following European developments very closely. You referred to your colleague, Mr Michel. We'll ask him the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, questions have already been asked here about the flooding in July, the floods and their consequences. However, I have heard that people whose homes have been declared uninhabitable still receive bills from utility companies, for gas, water, electricity and the Internet, while these people cannot use those services at all. Are you aware of these practices? Will you consult the utility companies to see what can be done about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u16	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, the General Directorate of Economic Inspection of the Federal Public Service Economy has received no notification of the obligation to continue paying the advance bill on utilities, such as energy, water and internet. It goes without saying that if the undertaking concerned is unable to perform its performance by force majeure, the consumer must not pay. I will have a look at how the utility companies deal with this situation and do not fail to address it to them if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I'm surprised you haven't received any reports. On the other hand, of course, it is also difficult for these people to complain, as they are closed off from everything. Thank you for your willingness to see if there are any problems. After all, I am aware of specific cases where this is indeed the case. These people must be able to spare that misery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u18	Mrs Van Bossuyt, for me too, it has been far too long before there is a solution for the package travel organisers. First of all, allow me to point out that consumers' rights are still not compromised, as the duly written vouchers under the Muylle Ministerial Decree are insured against the insolvency of the tour operator. That's still my core business as Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. Moreover, the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 only provides for a minimum period of validity for coronavouchers. Together with the special consultative committee on consumption, I have often pointed out that after a year the traveller often still has the choice between reimbursement or booking a trip. That signal is important not to cause an unjustified and hasty run at the travel agencies. The consumer's right to choose between reimbursement and booking a trip does not expire after a year and a day. We have already seen that, apart from the so-called commercial vouchers, more than half of the Muyllevouchers have already been used to book a trip. However, if the consumer wants a refund and does not receive a refund within six months of the request for a refund after one year after issue, he can report it to the Disputes Committee Travel, the FPS Economy hotline and/or the Consumer Ombudsman. As I announced from my appointment as Secretary of State, I am assuming a non-conflict model, in which consumer protection is not a matter for them against us. My wish is therefore that we have a healthy Belgian travel sector that can offer high-level services to our consumers. That is why, in addition to these loans, I will, together with my colleagues, also look at new legislation on insolvency insurance for the travel sector. Mr Dermagne, who has already started the process. The proposal is based on direct loans from the Belgian Federal Government to individual package travel organisers within the framework of the European Commission's Temporary Framework. When applying the interest rates, account should be taken of the European Commission's Temporary Framework, which provides that a minimum fee should be charged, taking into account the duration of the credit. The loan will have a repayment period of five years. Package tour operators will have to demonstrate that they had a financially sound business before the end of December 2019, in accordance with the European Commission's Temporary Framework. Any package tour operator, regardless of its size, who has signed out full and valid coronavouchers under the above-mentioned ministerial decision will be able to obtain a loan to repay these vouchers. The aim is to have as few bankruptcies as possible from healthy package tour operators to maximise employment and economic activity in Belgium. So the federal government has been very flexible. I would like to thank my colleagues Dermagne and Van Peteghem and Prime Minister De Croo for their long and good cooperation. It is now up to the insolvency insurers to make this plan work. If the insolvency insurers give their agreement in the foreseeable future, we are still able to provide the necessary loans before the end of the payout period. It will be very tight but we want to be flexible, as well as the many proposals we have already made, but it takes two to tango.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. From your answer, I say it's not time to dance yet. On 20 September, the first deadline of one year and six months expired and several organisers were therefore obliged to provide for that reimbursement. We must also remember that for many consumers the amount they have saved for a journey is also important. Some haven't booked a trip this summer because of that uncertainty. I know several examples of people who had booked a trip through a Dutch organisation. As you know, there is already an active coronavoucherbank in the Netherlands. So these people have already got their money back. They have been able to use it again to travel or to do something else with it. After all, many people did not want to travel this summer because of the uncertain conditions. It is in the interests of both travellers and organisers that a solution be found as soon as possible. You referred to insolvency insurance, which I will have a question about later. You have already explained the modalities. In this respect, it should perhaps be pointed out that provision cannot be made for a certain sum which has already been used up when two major organisers have enjoyed it. This would put many smaller SMEs in the cold. I understand that the ball is now in the insolvency insurers' camp. I hope that they will finally accept their responsibility and that the federal government will continue to insist on it. It takes two to tango They say. However, it is no longer five to twelve but almost five to twelve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u20	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible for the ministerial decision on the private and public activities of a cultural, social, festive, folkloric, sporting and recreational nature. I therefore refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, your sub-questions 1 and 2. As far as your third sub-question is concerned, there are very few reports of breaches of the provisions of the voucher scheme itself. The Economic Inspectorate did receive reports, but they more often relate to the fact that they do not agree to the voucher scheme for events or to civil contractual discussions about a delayed event. This year, the Economic Inspectorate received 37 notifications related to the reimbursement or lack of compensation of event vouchers linked to the corona crisis: 11 notifications for recreational events and 21 for cultural and 5 for sporting events. The Economic Inspectorate never releases names from ongoing investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, I will address the two first aspects of my question to Minister Dermagne. Thank you for your answer to the last part of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 55020244C by Mrs Gabriels will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u23	Since 1 July, the Economic Inspectorate has received two notifications concerning the new VAT regime for online purchases. Both reports relate to a lack of pre-contractual information relating to the price of companies established outside the EU. The online buyers were not properly informed of the fact that the prices displayed do not include all taxes and that they would still be liable for additional costs. For the evolution of the number of webshops registered at the European Import One Stop Shop since 1 July 2021, I should refer you to the Minister of Finance, Mr Van Peteghem, as this falls within his competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u24	Two reports are very small. That's good in itself. Hopefully that is also representative of reality. I did not receive an answer to my question about late delivery complaints, unless those two complaints are covered by the cases mentioned by you. On the one-stop shop, I will ask Mr Van Peteghem a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u25	We need to find out and let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u26	Fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to refer once again to the many insurance problems arising from the floods that have passed, particularly with regard to compulsory fire insurance. After all, it is worth having a more detailed debate in Parliament on possible improvements in this area. I was very surprised that one out of two affected tenants in Wallonia could not rely on fire insurance, even if it was called compulsory fire insurance. I think that is a remarkably high number. In the meantime, Belfius indicated that he was inclined to impose fire insurance, which also covers flood damage to the house. I would like to quote Mr Vanderschrick of Belfius: 'I have great sympathy with the victims who do not have fire insurance today. Perhaps, together with the governments, we should have the courage to think about making fire insurance compulsory." Of course, it is no surprise that banks and insurers are in favour of making fire insurance compulsory, because that would be a commercial advantage for them, but after the stories we have heard, we should think about this or at least have the debate so that what has happened now does not repeat itself. Meanwhile, the Walloon government has allocated funds to non-insured persons, but perhaps it is sending the wrong signal. After all, we must ensure that people are insured. How do you feel about this proposal? Do you think about this and will you investigate it further?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u28	Mrs. Depraetere, fire insurance is the oldest and most widespread insurance. The vast majority of citizens have fire insurance. Of course, it is important to protect non-insured persons from the consequences of fire and natural disasters. The problem therefore certainly deserves to be addressed. Making fire insurance compulsory could be an instrument for achieving that objective. However, it is important to stress that the introduction of an insurance obligation does not automatically result in prospective policyholders finding insurance easily. An insurer is free to insure a risk or not. The introduction of compulsory insurance also implies the introduction of a control mechanism and penalties for compliance with the obligation to ensure. Of course, that brings with it costs. In order to gain a better view of the impact of mandatory fire insurance, a thorough study is therefore needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u29	We must indeed look into the matter further. It would be useful if Parliament were to take the initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 55020517C of Melissa Depraetere has been revoked. Debates of the European Parliament 55020518C by Melissa Depraetere is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, many consumers compare different banks when making a loan, which is of course a good thing. However, the offer made by a creditor is not a legal offer, so one is not bound when making a proposal. However, an assessment is made of what is possible in market conditions at that time on the basis of the information communicated. This method is not always transparent. Between the time when the information is provided and the time when a binding contract is effectively concluded, there is often not much time, but sometimes the final proposal is very different from the original proposal. In such situations, a much higher interest rate and any other conditions, such as a higher percentage of own contribution, are suddenly presented at the time of signature. In situations where time pressure plays a role, for example in the purchase of a property, the consumer or entrepreneur often has no choice but to deal with the proposal, because there is no time to compare. Are you aware of such practices? Is something like this reported a lot? Is it clear to the consumer that credit applications are "for information"? On the basis of the questions I received, I had the impression that consumers are not always aware of the fact that credit applications are not legally binding. Shouldn't that be clarified by the creditor? Finally, do you think that the procedures for applying for loans are generally clear enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u32	A demand for information differs from a credit application, as an offer also distinguishes itself from information. An offer is by definition binding. It should therefore be submitted to the consumer only after an analysis of his creditworthiness. It must remain valid for at least 14 days. A personalised information sheet, the ESIS, shall be submitted in advance or in conjunction with the offer. More general information can be provided in advance, for example by means of a simulation. Nevertheless, it must take into account the creditor's prospectus. The prospectus shall specify at least a date and rates, as well as the possible general and usual derogations thereto, with associated conditions of allocation. This can only be waived in favour of the consumer and after negotiation on his own initiative. If false expectations are created about this by removing or misposing information, they may be misleading commercial practices. The Economic Inspectorate did not receive any complaints about this. I will monitor the information and, if necessary, take further initiatives. The consumer may be advised to make the comparison with the prospectus and the conditions that apply. He or she should also always look at the validity of information and ask for a concrete offer or ESIS. Consumers who consider that they have been treated negatively can always indicate this at the reporting point, but this must be supported by supporting evidence so that an investigation can be carried out. The legal arrangements for applications for loans are sufficiently clear. However, I will not fail to monitor the situation and to consult the sector whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer and for following up on the issue. I asked my questions in response to a number of individual cases. It is important that the conditions are clear. If there's room for improvement, I think it's a good idea to look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u34	It is not always clear to a consumer what is purely informative or what is really an offer. No one expects a difference of up to 44% between what one receives first and what one receives afterwards. The same applies to the conditions. First it is said that the mortgage creditor can derive the full amount and later it does not. That's causing a lot of confusion. If a consumer is told by a bank manager that he can make a better proposal, because there is actually no regulatory framework, then that raises questions. You say there are no complaints. Personally, I know of a concrete complaint. You could take them as an example for research into better information for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u35	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question has become without object after our committee meeting this morning. We finally have a solution for the people who have fallen victim to housing damage. Not only future damage, but also damage previously suffered will be compensated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u36	I would like to comment on this, Madam Secretary of State, because this morning the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs adopted a proposal to introduce the interpretative law after the Council of State gave a favourable opinion. You say that it is not enough just to look at that part of the problem, but also to look at how we deal with the soil problem on the ground. You also suggest the possibility of adapting the building regulations in the affected regions. I have a number of questions about this. The solution before the summer is now part of it. Are you still working on the other part? You are talking about possible cooperation with the regions with regard to the identification of soil problems. In the meantime, did you consult with him? Is there a kind of cooperation agreement being negotiated? Is there an overview of the number of disabled and affected homes in Belgium? If so, can you give that summary to the authors of this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u37	Thank you for your question, Mrs Depraetere. As I mentioned earlier, a working group headed by my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment, responsible for insurance, is examining this dossier. This group includes the various stakeholders, including the Regions and Assuralia, with a view to finding a solution to drought damage. This working group is still active. The consultations on the flood files have caused some delay. The decision of the majority in the Committee on Economics to continue working with the repair law at the moment and for the files of the past is a pragmatic solution. It does not have the full preference of Minister Dermagne, nor of myself. However, following the opinion of the Council of State on the repair law and further opinions, some of our many concerns have already been removed, and we see mainly the speed and possible solution to the problems of the past as positive aspects in this respect. However, I would like to draw attention to the additional need for a sustainable solution that addresses the drought problem at its origin. We must not only find solutions on the insurance side of the dossiers, we must also make sure that there are fewer files in the future. This is a discussion in which the Regions must also be involved. On the one hand, we must work together with them and with the sector to find solutions, for example by making consumer homes resistant to drought damage and by working on better building standards for the future. On the other hand, however, it is also necessary for the Regions to continue working on risk analysis maps in order to better match premiums to scientific data in the future, and to achieve better tree cover, better water policy and better building rules and risks. I have always taken consumer concerns into account in the follow-up to the dossier, and I will continue to monitor closely the continuation of the work. The consumer has a right to do so. These are people who have saved and worked very hard for their own homes and have always paid insurance for them. They are not the least guilty of damage caused by shrinking soil layers. So we must not leave them in the cold. In my capacity as consumer protection, I will continue to watch over this with my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, it is strange that at the end you indicate that your starting point is the concerns of consumers. At the beginning of your reply, you noted that the compensation for the damage already suffered falls within the scope of fire insurance does not favour you. These seem to me to be rather paradoxical statements. I am certainly pleased that the damage suffered since 2005 has also been covered, which is very clear following the positive opinion of the Council of State. However, I fully agree with your response to the point that we need to consider how such matters can be avoided in the future. In consultation with, for example, construction companies and with the Bouwunie, we can see how the construction of houses can respond to this, also by pointing out the possible risks. That is what we need to look at in the future, and we also need to look much wider, namely the climate problem, in order to avoid such long periods of drought with such consequences. However, that goes beyond your own competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, the solution adopted this morning is above all a question of justice. The insurance companies have been circumventing a law for years. We are dealing with this now, and I believe that this is absolutely necessary and fair, but you are right, of course, that this is not a complete solution to the problem. More is needed for this, including in the Regions and beyond your powers. In any case, it is a good thing that a working group is working on it and that further work is being done on that aspect of the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u41	Because of the very large number of files, the visits of the experts were spread over time, to all insurance companies, regardless of the way they worked. In this context, I would like to emphasise the exceptional nature of this disaster. At the moment, I only have knowledge of a small number of complaints about the lead time and the expertise. Further steps will be taken if necessary. When signing an expert report on a tablet, for example, it is not always visible to the consumer and sometimes he does not know what he is signing. It is important that the insured person has the details of the expert report before signing it. As soon as the agreement of the amicable assessment has been signed with the expert, this document is legally binding on both parties. The affected people must be helped properly, transparently and properly. Insured persons should know that they currently have different options if they are not satisfied with the operation of their insurer and/or insurance intermediary. In the first instance, they may lodge a complaint with the internal complaint service of their insurer. If the problem has still not been resolved after contact with the internal complaints service, the insurance ombudsman can be contacted. The Ombudsman helps to resolve disputes between insurance undertakings and their clients by providing advice or acting as mediators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u42	It's remarkable that there aren't so many complaints yet, because I'll get them. For many people there is a threshold for effective complaint. It would be wise for people to make an effective complaint if they are faced with problems or if their handling is difficult. For example, the Ombudsman can find out on the basis of the facts. In this way, this can be better resolved in future situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u43	In my previous reply, I indicated that the European Commission is committed to a comprehensive analysis of the current regulatory framework for package travel, including insolvency by 2022. This analysis is ongoing and I do not expect any new measures at European level before it is completed. I do not yet have enough elements to assess the recent steps taken in the Netherlands and Germany on insolvency protection systems. Of course, my services follow all developments and all relevant information is taken into account in our discussions on this issue. In close consultation with the travel sector and the insurance sector, as well as with the Ministers of Economy and Finance, a long-term solution on insolvency protection in the travel sector is being sought. For the time being, I cannot give specific information on this, as the discussions are still ongoing. What I can say is that at the informal consumer protection summit in Slovenia on 24 September, ministers agreed that all possible shortcomings of the current package travel directive should be assessed. In this way, it will be possible to examine the need for further harmonisation with regard to insolvency periods and the specific rules on reimbursement of paid package travel, according to Commissioner Reynders. The epidemic has shown that the Directive was not appropriate in the exceptional circumstances that both consumers and businesses have had and still have to deal with. There is no European regulation on vouchers. Belgium proposes to amend the Directive in such a way as to include all forms of reimbursement in insolvency protection. If a tour operator goes bankrupt before a consumer can use his voucher, that consumer will no longer lose his money. In addition, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg proposed the introduction at EU level of a mandatory protection regime against the insolvency of air carriers. At the same time, they no longer only want to define the relationship between consumers and tour operators in the directive but also include B2B services between tour operators and, for example, airlines. This will make it possible to lay down clear rules on refunds, which is again for the benefit of the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. This is something to keep following up closely. I hear that there are discussions at different levels and that there is movement in the matter. That is a good thing. We must not lose sight of the fact that, among other things, booking through a travel organisation has the added value of being insured against insolvency. It would be a pity if this added value were lost in the future. We will continue to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilissen's 55021087C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u46	Mr Prévot, as far as the Code of Economic Law is concerned, I am referring to the prohibition of unfair commercial practices. In assessing whether a particular practice is misleading or aggressive, the target group to which it is addressed must be taken into account. Advertising for children will therefore take particular account of their age or credulity, which may make them particularly sensitive to commercial practices. In addition, I would like to point out that since 2012, there has been a self-regulatory initiative in the food sector launched by Fevia, UBA and Comeos for responsible advertising to children, the Belgian Pledge. For selected media – radio, television, cinema, social networks, product placement etc. – participating companies make clear commitments to advertising for children under 12 years of age. Currently, 53 companies have subscribed to the Belgian Pledge. This initiative is based on the EU Pledge at European level, which should be strengthened within the framework of the European Farm to Fork Code of Conduct. In addition, the Code of Food Advertising, applied by the Jury of Public Ethics, also pays particular attention to advertising for children. It explicitly recommends that media personalities not be used in advertisements for children in a manner that may lead to editorial content in the case of commercial promotions. Given the existing rules and the self-regulation initiatives at both Belgian and European level, it does not seem appropriate at the moment to take further initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u47	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. Indeed, children and young people, by their age, but also, as you have said, by their credulity, are particularly vulnerable in their relationship to advertising. When Test-Achats screens packages and advertisements on TV and on the Internet for 179 snacks for children aged 4 to 16, this study reveals that 83% of these snacks are ultra-processed products. The majority have D or E nutri-scores. According to Test-Achats always, three-quarters of these snacks should not be presented under a child-friendly packaging or even promoted through advertising. I think that's a real concern. You recalled the existing framework. Unfortunately, it sometimes feels like things are getting out of the picture or flirting with it. I also hear that for the time being you feel at government level that the European and Belgian frameworks are sufficient. We still have to be very attentive. This subject is regularly relayed by consumer protection and defence associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u48	"Madam Secretary of State, as you know, the world of distribution has been under pressure for several years. One of the most affected sectors is the sale of small electronic devices, which are readily available and competed by e-commerce. Switch, the largest chain of Apple Premium Resellers in Belgium is one of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u49	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u50	Mr Prévot, 128 reports relating to Switch Holding SA and Hubside Belgium were sent via the SPF Economy contact point regarding products and services offered online, by telephone or in Switch and Hubside Store stores. Of these reports, 92 relate to alleged hidden amendments, 9 relate to forced purchases, 9 relate to other misleading practices and 18 relate to other practices (incorrect application of the legal guarantee, information on terms and conditions of sale and services, etc.). Action is being taken. The Economic Inspectorate deals with all reports against Switch and continues its investigation into potential misleading and aggressive practices, including the forced sale of insurance products and other services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. Indeed, 128 alerts were transmitted via the FPS Economy contact point. The owner of Switch Belgium himself has admitted questionable practices, psychological pressures that go beyond a simple presentation of the product. He promised to fix it. Therefore, we will remain very attentive to consumer rights since in France, SFAM received a fine of 10 million euros for commercial fraud. I understand that these 128 reports are followed by the Economic Inspectorate. That's obviously a good thing. I hope that if, behind these reports, there are real proved faults, they will be properly punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u52	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the visibility of bookmakers in sport has been increasing for years. Online betting companies are visible in most European competitions and Belgium is not spared. While clubs take full advantage of this boom in terms of sponsorship, addiction trends, especially among young people, are increasing significantly. Advertising prompts people to bet constantly worries and makes debate. Italy and Spain have assumed their responsibilities and have banned the sponsorship of bookmakers in the sports sector. Great Britain has been thinking about this for some time. Other countries are likely to follow this trend. Madam Secretary of State, what can you tell us about the situation in Belgium? Is this problem known to your department? Have you ever discussed this within the government? Could we, too, move towards a ban on sponsorship by bookmakers in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, sports betting is considered a game of chance. To be able to operate sports bets, you must have a licence from the gambling commission. I must therefore refer you to the gambling commission and to my colleague, the Minister of Justice, who has sports bets in his competence. I really wanted to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, it is nice to want to answer, but I have also addressed this question to the Minister of Justice, as you suggest. I asked you the question from the point of view of consumer protection. I thought I did the right thing. But you're telling me you're not. Of which, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u55	The bill will be open to debate in the Justice Committee in the coming weeks. It is a bill that I myself have drafted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u56	Mr. President, I'll check it out. As far as consumer protection is concerned, I thought we could have received a notice. That's not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, at the end of last year I asked a question about the law of 4 April 2019, which implements the right to be forgotten in insurance law. That law was introduced for former cancer patients who want to take out a balance of debt insurance or professional credit. That law provides for the King to draw up a reference schedule in which, in addition to cancer diseases, chronic diseases can be listed for which insurance undertakings may not ask for additional premiums or refuse insurance. You replied to me that the reference schedule would be evaluated, among other things to see if type 1 diabetes could be added. The latest proposal of the KCE on the reference grid dates from 2019. Madam Secretary of State, have you received a new proposal in the meantime? If not, when do you expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u58	Mr President, Mr De Caluwé, within the framework of the current regulation, a strict procedure is provided for the evaluation and adaptation of the reference schedules which entered into force on 1 April 2020. The law provides that the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE) will evaluate those reference schedules every two years. That evaluation should be based on medical progress and available scientific data on the diseases. The work of the KCE is currently under way. Once finalized, the KCE shall communicate its proposal for the adjustment of the reference timetable to the Succession Bureau for Tariffing. Upon receipt of the necessary scientific input from the Knowledge Centre, the Follow-up Office may continue its work with a view to an initial opinion following the biennial evaluation following the entry into force of the reference schedules, namely on 1 April 2022. As the work is still under way, I do not yet have the proposal of the KCE or the opinion of the Follow-up Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u59	The right to be forgotten is an important issue for many colleagues. I think that's important myself. I am therefore pleased that in the meantime several proposals are pending within the Committee on Economic Affairs, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda to make some adjustments to this. The advice of the KCE is not here yet, but hopefully that will be for soon. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u60	The texts will be on our committee's agenda in two weeks' time. Next week there will be the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that an increase in the down payment does not necessarily mean an increase in energy prices. Advance payments are provisional amounts paid so that the final invoice is not too large for the customer. If the actual consumption of the customer or the price of energy increases sharply, the payments no longer correspond to the projected situation. As a result, the final invoice will be higher than expected. To avoid the bad surprise of a substantial final invoice, it may be in the customer's interest that the energy supplier increase the amount of deposit paid during the year. The possibility of unilaterally increasing the amount of advance payments is a contractual option which must be provided for in Mega's general terms and conditions of sale, accepted by its consumer customers. If such a clause exists, it will have to be assessed whether it is abusive under the provisions of the Code of Economic Law or whether the use made of it by Mega constitutes an abuse of law within the meaning of civil law. I would like to stress that the agreement, in the liberalised electricity and gas market, contains specific provisions on advance payments. This agreement does not prohibit unilateral changes to the deposit. However, it provides for an obligation to provide an explanation of how the advance payment is to be calculated when the amount is changed, prior to the actual invoicing. Before each adaptation, information on the subject must be communicated to the consumer in time, and personally; this information may enable the consumer to verify the merits of the increase. In so far as Mega is a signatory to the agreement, its non-compliance constitutes an unfair commercial practice. In the current context of rising electricity prices, the Economic Inspectorate remains vigilant with regard to compliance by energy suppliers with both the Code of Economic Law and the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I hope that we can count on the Economic Inspectorate's vigilance, because it seems to me that these are fixed and non-variable contracts. In principle, if a fixed contract has been signed for the supply of its electricity, the final amount should not increase and certainly not increase that of the advance payments. It appears that a number of customers have received this unilateral announcement of an increase in the amount of the Mega supplier's deposit, which Mega justifies by an increase in electricity prices. But this concerns wholesale markets and, in principle, consumers must remain protected. I call on the Economic Inspectorate to be very vigilant so that all Belgian households are protected against these massive increases in gas and electricity prices on world markets, which concern wholesale markets and not just Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. Indeed, an increase in the down payment does not mean an increase in prices. In this case, this increase makes any contract with a variable rate... And here, we are talking about fixed rate contracts. We are facing a violation of the consumer's rights, which Test Achats points out by arguing that the consumer is best placed to judge the increase in his consumption and therefore to argue for an increase in his down payment. A fixed-rate contract bears its name. The amount allocated monthly must remain the same and cannot be changed unilaterally during the contract by the energy supplier. For my part, I also hope that the Economic Inspectorate, in times of rising prices, particularly in electricity markets, will be extremely vigilant about the sometimes questionable practices of some suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, as the sale of electric vehicles is increasingly in the elevator, there is obviously a need for more charging infrastructure. In the meantime, a number of people have been persuaded to take part in this technological progress. However, there are consumers and companies who contacted me about the problem that the charges of the loading posts are not always transparent. With petrol and diesel it is of course much easier, the fare is always clearly displayed. This does not seem to be the case with the charging infrastructure for electric cars. In the meantime, what have you done to promote transparency in charging charges? Have you launched a concrete action plan for this purpose? What message do you send today to the consumers who are facing this problem? What consultations have you had so far and with whom? What were the results of that? Have you made an analysis, in collaboration with the Minister of Economy, of any notifications received by the FPS Economy about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u65	Mr Van Lommel, when the charging infrastructure is freely available to consumers, it is important that consumers are fully informed about the service provided and the associated price. After all, it must be possible to charge a car with different suppliers without any problems. Today, among other things, we find too often that, contrary to Article 4 of the EU Directive 2014/94, the charging post does not provide sufficient transparency about the price composition and the price calculation, i.e. the price per kilowatt hour, the parking fee in some cases, the price per minute, the start-up costs and so on. Consumers often don't know what they're up to when they want to charge an electric car, but also not during and after the loading session. I recently highlighted the importance of price transparency of electric charging stations. According to Article VI.3 of the Economic Law Code, a price must be indicated in writing, unambiguous, clearly visible and legible to the consumer. However, the difficulty in practice in charging electric vehicles to publicly accessible charging stations lies in the fact that it involves many different services and suppliers, each with their own different applicable rates, which determine the final total price of a charge. It can therefore be different per consumer and per loading post. On the one hand, there are the operators of the loading posts and on the other hand, those who sell loading tickets, charging cards or apps to consumers. The rates for each of these services often make it too complicated in practice to calculate in advance what a loading session will cost. During and after the loading session, it should be clear to a consumer how much he has loaded and what the total price will be. I am currently discussing with my colleagues, Minister of Energy Van der Straeten and Minister of Economy Dermagne, the Flemish Region and the sector themselves how additional regulation on price transparency can contribute to this. Within the young and highly emerging electric charging market, price transparency is becoming an increasingly important factor as the group of private electric drivers using semi-public charging stations is also increasing significantly. Only a few charging stations currently have a screen on which the fare can be consulted. Consumers are therefore advised to use an app to calculate the total cost in advance. I have already had extensive consultations with the various parties involved at various levels. For example, following consultation with the sector, it is clear that he is aware of the problem and is prepared to make additional efforts to enable price transparency for consumers. The sector also notes that the protocols are ready and implementable. I also consulted at Flemish level to find out what initiatives have already been taken there. This shows that a federal approach is definitely needed. A consultation also took place with the ACM in the Netherlands, as additional legislation on price transparency to electric charging infrastructure already exists in the Netherlands. I'm not aware of any reports at the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, you share my concern. We know that the number of electric vehicles will only increase. You also say that there are few loading posts with a screen, so people do not know in advance what to pay. I believe, however, that this is necessary, because people have the right to know. I know that this is already enshrined in the Economic Law Code, but additional regulation will be needed. This will have to be enforced further. I understand that different services are linked, which makes it difficult to set a single rate, but that will still be necessary. Consumers are entitled to this. As Secretary of State, I note that you are in favour of providing an additional regulatory framework to resolve this problem. I hope that legislation will be prepared quickly so that we can reassure consumers and they know in advance what they will have to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u67	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 27 September 2021, we learned that Test Achats had sent you a letter stating that many gas and electricity suppliers were not complying with the agreement entitled "The consumer in the liberalised gas and electricity market" (consumer agreement). It aims to prevent abusive practices and misleading information that consumers may suffer in their dealings with energy suppliers. In this letter, Test Achats points out that, in the face of the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices, some suppliers are reducing their tariff offer – many of them offering only fixed rates to new customers, as well as customers who are forced to extend their fixed-price contract. Furthermore, the association raises a lack of clarity and transparency in relation to the information provided to customers by certain suppliers, which may in some cases be considered as a breach of the provisions of the consumer agreement with regard to the renewal of an energy contract. The agreement stipulates that the supplier must transmit to the customers a proposal to extend the existing energy contract two months before the expiry of their contracts, as well as precise information on changes to the terms of the existing contract, and must request the customer's agreement – if this is not the case, the supplier is obliged to guarantee a contract equivalent to that originally entered into. Madam Secretary of State, can we have your feedback on this, and in particular on the shortcomings of the information provided to customers and new customers mentioned in the mail? Test Achats points out that several signatories of the consumer agreement seem not to respect it. Can we be informed of the arrangements for monitoring compliance with this agreement? Finally, Test Achats advocates the obligation to comply with the consumer agreement for all energy suppliers. Can we get your reaction about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u68	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, only the Economic Inspectorate and the courts are competent to enforce the Code of Economic Law. After receiving this letter, I contacted the Economic Inspectorate and asked it to investigate further. The agreement "The consumer in the liberalised gas and electricity market", hereinafter referred to as "the Consumer Agreement", provides that non-compliance with these provisions constitutes an unfair commercial practice within the meaning of Book XI of the Code of Economic Law. In accordance with the Code, the DG Economic Inspection is responsible for ensuring that the Consumer Agreement is complied with and applied correctly. To this end, DG Economic Inspection conducts a permanent monitoring on the basis of the signals it receives or carries out proactive investigations to verify compliance with this agreement by the signatories. In 2020, all signatories were asked about their business practices in order to verify compliance with the provisions of the Agreement. In view of the current situation, I have no doubt that the Economic Inspectorate remains vigilant to ensure that the procedures relating to the renewal of contracts are transparent for consumers. The Consumer Agreement incorporates the provisions of the applicable legislation, such as the Code of Economic Law and the "gas and electricity" laws, and applies them more specifically in order to clarify the legal principles and clarify them where the specificities of the energy sector so require. On some points, it goes further than these laws. In the case of a Code of Conduct, adherence to it by companies must be voluntary. If these provisions are to apply to the whole sector, they should be done through legislation. In the context of the transposition of the Energy Package, certain points of the agreement will be made mandatory, for example in terms of transparency or the balance of contractual conditions. The Consumer Agreement, in its current form, is now signed by only ten energy suppliers. As stipulated in the Government Agreement, the Consumer Agreement will be evaluated for better and more effective consumer protection. The first phase of the evaluation was carried out through a survey of all stakeholders to identify actions and areas for improvement. More emphasis is placed on evaluation with a view to obtaining a new consumer agreement by early 2022 than on finding new signatories to the agreement in its current form. However, I would like to make it clear that the energy suppliers who have not acceded to this agreement are not, however, relieved of obligations. They remain bound to comply with the more general provisions of Book VI of the Code of Economic Law as well as those of the Gas and Electricity Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u69	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am, of course, reassured to hear, although I had no doubt about it, that your services are particularly vigilant in ensuring that this agreement is implemented and complied with. However, it is, in my view, particularly necessary, given the context of an unprecedented rise in prices, to show proactivity. It is true that you have talked about it, but we will have to show proactivity exposing ten. Indeed, we must be very careful because we cannot add problems to the problems with contract renewals or contract offers which would increase the burden on consumers even more. In conclusion, I invite you to mobilise all your services to ensure that this consumer agreement is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u70	Madam Secretary of State, many victims discovered after the floods that they were not covered with regard to the contents of their homes. They did not choose it deliberately and thought in good faith to be insured for their furniture and appliances. Many people subscribe to insurance that does not cover their property without knowing it, because they do so directly via the insurance company or via the Internet to benefit from better rates. They therefore do not benefit from the advice of an independent broker. Without precise and comprehensive advice, they cannot be properly informed and informed. Madam Secretary of State, what have you planned to force insurance to guarantee quality information? Are there any remedies available to victims who would not have subscribed to the correct insurance policy? How will you help these victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u71	Mr D'Amico, in general, insurers and insurance intermediaries are subject to an obligation of good information when the contract is concluded. For fire insurance, a specific circular has been adopted. It aims to clarify the obligation of insurance and insurance intermediaries to inform when such insurance is concluded. Uninsured persons may submit a file to the Regional Disaster Fund. Finally, the policyholder can always apply to the services of the Insurance Ombudsman for the latter to intervene in the dispute with his insurance company as an independent ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, my comments were directed at those insured persons who read in good faith without understanding everything. And despite the existence of directives, anyone who wants to book to try to save is still lost. It was for these people, a little naive, who don't know the content of the assurances that I addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u73	Madam Secretary of State, insurance legislation provides that insurance can cap their compensation for natural disasters such as floods. This mechanism was introduced by the Act of 21 May 2003. The argument behind the introduction of this ceiling was that the premiums of insured persons would not increase if a ceiling were put in place. However, we have seen that premiums have increased despite this ceiling: 5.9% increase in 2019 while insurance has already made more than 15 billion profits over the last seven years. In general, premiums have risen faster than inflation in recent years. Madam Secretary of State, taking into account that this ceiling does not limit the increase in premiums when it was her primary objective, do you consider that this ceiling is still legitimate in the Insurance Act today? What are you planning to do to prevent the increase in premiums and lower coverage for insured persons in the future? This is a real risk, as was reported by professionals in the sector in Le Vif/L'Express or in La Libre Belgique this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u74	Dear colleague, there is, strictly speaking, no statutory ceiling provided for by the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014. The law provides for an individual intervention limit per insurer, in the form of a percentage of the fire premiums (simple risk) it collects. The law also provides for a minimum individual limit of 2 million euros. This indexed amount represents an amount of €2.7 million. Adding the individual limits of insurers for the mid-July floods amounts to €350 million. The mentioned limits apply per event. The limits are based on the collection of premiums by insurers. The ceiling was a condition for the insurability of natural disaster risk. In view of the experience of this event of exceptional magnitude, consideration will be given to adapting the current mechanism of legislation for natural disaster insurance. A working group will be set up to review the individual intervention limit of insurance undertakings. The principle applicable is that of tariff freedom. There is no longer any prior approval of premiums and tariffs. Each insurer is free to determine the insurance premiums and the premiums are determined on the basis of risk. This freedom does not prevent some ex post monitoring of tariffs, in particular by the monitoring body or other institutes such as the Price Observatory. FSMA, as the supervisory authority, controls the products proposed on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic594x.u75	Secretary of State, Minister Dermagne has already announced that with a working group, he will re-evaluate the limits on the payment of benefits to insured persons. He refuses to remove it in order to avoid increasing premiums. I hope you can point out to him that there is no link between the presence of the ceiling and the increase in premiums, since they have continued to increase in recent years. Finally, I am counting on you to put yourself on the side of the insured and to prevent insurance from arbitrarily increasing their premiums as a result of the floods, while many victims are still waiting for intervention from them.
