ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u1	Madam President, third time, good time. I would like to thank Mr De Wit for her willingness to postpone the question until today. Mr. Secretary, at chemsex parties, different men have sex with each other and use drugs. Such parties can last up to a few days and there are substances like GHB and GBL, cocaine and even crystal meth combined for the rush, to stay awake. I do not need to convince you that such parties are not without risk. This is why the Institute of Tropical Medicine, in collaboration with the University of Antwerp, Sensoa and the VAD, has developed the Budd app as part of a pilot project to raise awareness and reduce potential hazards. I do not doubt the good intentions behind the development of this aid app, but one cannot ignore the fact that the use of resources makes these parties illegal. Minister, are you aware of this pilot project? What is your position? Has there been prior consultation with the Justice Department? Were checks carried out in recent years to the organizers of such parties, given their illegal nature? If so, what are the consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u2	Mr President, Mr Dillen has already outlined the problem. The combination of sex and the use of many kinds of drugs can bring a lot of risks, hence the app. The strange thing is that Mrs Dillen did not say that the app already gives tips two days before the next party, such as taking enough rest, to prepare herself for the next special party. During the party itself, the app also comes in handy, as it points out the dangers of the combination of certain types of drugs. A pilot project is currently under way and, if it proves successful, it would be desirable to continue to roll it out. That raises a lot of questions for me. In this way, as with NarcoReaders, a less far-reaching initiative, about which I questioned you a while ago, is almost awakening the illusion that there are safe drugs. What is your position on the app? Do you think that the pilot project and its possible further roll-out are allowed? Can this be done simply because the current drug legislation makes it very explicit that the facilitation of drug use is prohibited? It seems to me to be going very strongly in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u3	My services weren't aware of the famous app, but I've been informed. It is a harm reduction measure, harm reduction. Damage control is based on the fact that people use drugs and the intention to limit the damage to their environment. It's a matter of health, which is a community competence. Mrs Dillen, I cannot possibly answer your question. Not only are there no separate codes under which those facts are classified, but also the parties are often organised in a very discreet way, which means that they are often kept under the radar. I agree that the issue should be discussed at the general Drugs Policy Unit, which was recently re-established by the government. Mrs De Wit, I can be clear on one matter. The criminal nature of drug offences is preserved. The public prosecutor will always look at a specific case-by-case file and charge all the circumstances of the case. It is up to the prosecution and then, where appropriate, to a judge on the merits to decide whether or not to facilitate drug use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have to say, I'm a little disappointed. The fact that you are not aware is perfectly possible. It is true that the competence for prevention belongs to the Communities. As far as the harm reduction is concerned, I have followed for years the initiatives taken in prevention. Well, the initiative quoted is very far-reaching. I believe that it is at the border of the criminal and that it is absolutely not in line with what is clearly defined in our drugs legislation. I note that you will raise the issue for the General Cell on Drugs Policy, but I would like to insist on a more firm approach. We see, on the one hand, that a great deal of resources and men are being used, rightly, to pay attention to drug imports, think of the famous Operation Sky, but, on the other hand, that drugs are allowed to be used at certain parties. The fact that some sort of app is then introduced, as so-called harm reduction measure, is actually contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the criminal character is preserved. I sincerely hope that this will be reflected in the facts, because I sometimes hear different signals from your government. Just think about the whole ongoing discussion about the user rooms. The measure in question is also intended to reduce injury, but gives a certain impression. If one explains with the app which drugs are best not to be combined and which combinations can be combined and one advises to go to sleep in good time before one participates in such a party, then it seems to me that drug use is easier. I hope the D.A.'s office will join me in that when it comes to that. That doesn't mean I wouldn't give everyone his party, of course, but not like that. We are sending a totally wrong signal with the government, with the legislator, saying that that would all be good. We need to give another signal. Of course, we must guide and help everyone and sometimes prevent them. However, sometimes things run counter to each other. The app runs counter to prevention for me. They almost say how to use drugs safely and that there are safe drugs. I don't want to give anyone that message. This message must not be given to young people or to the elderly; we must always warn against the dangers, in the hope that people will not use drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u6	Madam President, Minister, already in 2020, various prisons, including those in Andenne and Leuze-en-Hainaut, had been in difficulty both in terms of the contamination of prisoners and prison staff. More recently, Namur's prison paid the price with alarming figures. At a time when everyone has the question of the beginning of a possible third wave, it must be noted that the health situation in prisons remains worrying and that various questions arise. Minister, what are the figures for the epidemic in our prisons, both for inmates and for staff? Have the precedents of Leuze-en-Hainaut and Andenne changed the protocols in case of cluster? What measures have been put in place in prisons to curb the epidemic and protect prisoners and agents, specifically in the event of clustering? Beyond the necessary medical priorities, what measures have been put in place to support inmates in terms of moral well-being following the lockdown measures that have been taken? What measures are in place to ensure the most secure and secure working environment for officers? What measures are in place to address the shortage of prison officers in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u7	Mevrouw de voorzitster, dear colleague, since the outbreak, 761 inmates have been tested positive. As of 16 March ( yesterday), a total of 150 detainees were still positive. The number of employees whose tests are positive is not registered by the prisons, but I can tell you that as of March 7, there were 54 quarantine employees and 860 employees on sick leave. On the other hand, there was a decrease in the absence rate of 15.81 per cent on 12 March. It is only 14.12 per cent as of 15 March. In early November 2020, a common procedure was communicated to all institutions for the containment of internal epidemics in prisons. Of course, each outbreak of contamination is assessed to see what needs to be adapted to further optimize it in the light of the specific realities of each establishment or situation. On your third question, first of all, the internal functioning has been adapted. There are clear procedures for possible hygiene measures. Prevention remains a priority. The screening strategy, contact tracing and preventive quarantine for prisoners entering free society are also important. In the event of an internal epidemic, there is a plan containing the following elements: separation of the infected area from the rest of the prison, search for high-risk contacts, screening strategy and imposition of preventive quarantine and medical isolation, and quarantine of an entire service or prison if necessary according to the severity of the epidemic. The aim is to isolate as much as possible from the outside world the affected area or the entire prison. The decision to close is taken in consultation with the media service and the regional director and, given the serious consequences for daily life, is imposed only for the duration absolutely necessary. With regard to your fourth question, containment has a major impact on contacts with the outside world and collective activities. However, it is important to stress that contacts with the psychosocial service and prison care teams as well as with community social workers remain possible during confinement. Conversations continue on an individual basis. This sometimes takes place in the section or wing to avoid movement. In addition, detainees may contact certain social help lines that have been set up by prison partners. I'm thinking about inmate support or moral counselors. The lines are free. With regard to your fifth question, internal working processes and procedures have been adapted since the beginning of the health crisis of the coronavirus to limit the risks as much as possible. There are clear instructions on hygiene measures and they have been communicated to all agents. The protective material is available in sufficient quantity and there is an online learning about its correct use. In addition, an internal helpline is available to employees for emotional support. As for your sixth question, shortages due to sick or quarantine leave are compensated internally by the vast majority of them. Only in very rare cases did external aid have to be sought. This was the case in Namur prison, where it was necessary to use an external company to provide meals to warm up. I would point out that this was mainly due to the absence of inmates who helped to make meals, who were blocked in their cells. Let me turn to your seventh and final question. I have already had the opportunity to point out that the vaccination procedure is not currently finalized. The only certainty already established is related to the rapid vaccination of the following services: the covid sections in the prisons of Bruges and Lantin, the sections reserved for the over 65s of Saint-Hubert and Merksplas, and the members of the nursing staff linked to the potential opening of the covid section of the Jan Portaels hospital in Vilvoorde. However, at the time of my reply, only the delivery dates for the first Bruges and Merksplas vaccines are known. This will take place on 17 and 18 March, respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for these specific answers. Unfortunately, I have lost you or at least misunderstood you on the issues of the environment, but it doesn't matter. I'll listen to your answers again. In any case, I am pleased to note that prevention remains your priority in prisons. On the other hand, with regard to vaccination, it is hoped that individuals, agents, detainees and, in any case, prisoners over 65 years of age will receive special attention, as is the case in the outside world, as well as persons suffering from co-morbidity factors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u9	I will send you the answers by email, dear colleague, so that you can read the complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Peel's 55015096C is converted into a written question. If possible, Minister, she would like to receive the answer by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u11	Madam President, that will be all right, I will deliver it in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u12	We come to Mrs Bury's next question on gaybashing. Since we cannot hear her, we shall now proceed to the next question. In the meantime, she can solve her technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the number of corona infections in Hasselt prison appears to be very high. More than 90 contagions were reported among the detainees. In the case of penitentiary staff, too, there are apparently many infections, which is a very worrying situation. Additional measures to support penitentiary staff are very important. That is why I have the following questions. Can you confirm the numbers? Do you have a view of the causes? What specific measures have been taken in Hasselt to prevent additional dissemination? Have all inmates been tested, or are there any inmates who refused the test? Exactly how many infections have been detected in the penitentiary staff? Were all staff tested, too? Have you taken additional support measures for them? Finally, are there any other prisons in which the number of infections has increased spectacularly? If so, what is the specific situation? What measures have been taken in these prisons to prevent the further spread of the corona virus and, above all, to support penitentiary staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, thank you for your questions. There are currently 122 infected inmates in Hasselt prison since the covid outbreak. We see that the course of each outbreak is unique and depends on different factors, such as how quickly the disease is detected. Other factors are the employment of the infected person, the infectiousness and the type of variant. In order to give you a better view of the situation in Hasselt, I will present the facts chronologically. On 2 March 2021, two detainees were placed in medical quarantine based on their symptoms. The following day, on 3 March 2021, they proved covidpositive and were transferred to the covid ward in Bruges prison. After the contact tracing, the prisoners who shared the walk with them and the prisoners who were employed in the same workhouse were placed in medical quarantine pending the outcome of their test. One of the inmates in medical quarantine worked in the kitchen and showed possible alarm symptoms that he himself didn't attribute to covid. On 4 March, 24 of the inmates tested proved covidpositive. The prison went into lockdown, reducing internal and external movements to a minimum. As the infections were spread over the prison, a test strategy was established. The occupational physician was involved in determining the measures for the staff. On 5 March, the number of infected prisoners rose to 49. On the same day, the entire prison population was tested, with the cooperation of the Jessa Hospital. The entire staff present could also be tested. Those who were not on duty received an invitation via Empreva via text message with which they could be offered in a test centre. Staff were retested within seven days. On 9 March 29 new cases were identified at a retest and on 13 March the first female inmate tested positive. 17 cases were identified after the retest on 16 March. That's yesterday's information. The contact tracing with external partners and visitors was also further carried out. The syndicated organisations and staff were always informed in a timely and correct manner. The prison director is currently advised by the Flemish Agency for Health and Care, the Jessa Hospital in Hasselt, the Health Care Service of EPI and Empreva. So we have acted very quickly and very correctly, for which I thank you. As I have already announced, all prisoners were tested. This is closely monitored by the local medical service. If someone refuses the test, the necessary measures will be taken to protect the rest of the population. They'll go into preemptive quarantine. Nine positive cases have so far been reported to staff. Since there is no legal obligation to report covid contamination to the employer, this figure is only indicative. There are clear guidelines on the use of PPE, the personal protective equipment. In normal circumstances, the use of a substance oral mask is sufficient, but in the case of preventive or medical quarantine FFP2 masks are used. On 5 March, the instructions were waived and all personnel received FFP2 masks and spray masks. Almost daily the management organises information moments for the attention of the staff. The medical service and the central service are also available for support. At present we do not have a spectacular increase in the North region, so in Flanders. There have been 14 infections in Saint Gillis since this weekend. There, measures were taken for part of the prison. The staff were informed and can be tested. A test strategy will be developed. In Paifve 14 prisoners were tested positively and the pavilion was placed in partial lockdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u15	Minister, in a short time, on three days from 2 to 5 March, there was indeed a spectacular increase. I am pleased to hear that the necessary measures have been taken immediately. I can only hope that the situation will be dealt with as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u16	On Saturday 6 March, a 41-year-old man was found dead in a park in Beveren. The man would have been set up by a gay dating app. This is the second fatal case of gaybashing in Flanders. Three suspects were arrested on suspicion of murder. It concerns three minors aged 16 and 17 from Beveren and Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u17	I refer first of all to the answers I gave in plenary last week, where your party colleague, Mrs Pas, had asked a question. I can indeed confirm that, shortly after the facts, three minor suspects were arrested and appeared before the juvenile court. I do not want and can not say more about this matter at the moment. There's an investigation going on, and I'll wait with you for the results of that investigation. I would also like to stress once again that the motives of the perpetrators are still being investigated. You understand me very well. The alleged motive of homophobic hatred cannot be confirmed or denied at this stage. In your question you say that this is the second fatal case of gaybashing in Flanders. I'll leave that on your account. That has not been confirmed by the investigation at the moment. In general, apart from the case in Beveren, I can tell you the following. All too often there is no complaint following homophobic violence. The dark number has many reasons. There is a fear that the complaint will not be taken seriously or that it will or will not be possible to act decisively. Here we can undoubtedly learn from the care centres for sexual violence and from the Flemish government's family justice centers for victims of intra-family violence. It's important to know that the Justice Department can't do this alone. Prevention, protection and awareness-raising is a practice of all competent federal and sub-state actors. In any case, within the government, we have started with the experts to see how we can better register the hate crimes. Last week, Secretary of State Schlitz announced in plenary that an action plan would be drawn up with civil society with a view to lowering this threshold. I think that is a very good thing. I would like to emphasise that the prosecution is very active in the fight against hate crimes and homophobia and has already taken several initiatives to this end. I refer, among other things, to the COL 13/2013. In addition, it is important to recognise these hate crimes early and send out a powerful signal. This is how it often starts with criminal statements online against this community. It is therefore urgent to amend Article 150 of the Constitution so that this online hate speech can be effectively prosecuted and punished. It should also be made clear that hate crimes will be punished more severely. The reform of the Criminal Code is once again on the table, and I will work on it. It will extend the discriminatory motive to all crimes. So I will make sure that the magistrates have more tools to prosecute. That's not enough. It is also necessary to provide for a thorough training of magistrates, but also of the police and other aid workers. That's how we can hit that dark number. In this way, we will ensure that we can intervene in a targeted way, in order to improve safety for those people. You suggested better security of dating apps. Media wisdom is, of course, crucial in this regard. That's a community jurisdiction, not my jurisdiction immediately. The builders of such apps can also install certain security measures themselves. Users should then also take the necessary precautions. We all need to show the necessary caution in the use of social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I wasn't thinking about that gaybashing either. I've already asked you whether that was effective. You say that it is a full Community competence to consult with the sector because they are themselves asking parties. If someone goes to a dating app like this, it would be a good idea for that person to register with an identity card. That's how we know who's on the other side of the line. Of course, that's a bit difficult when it comes to a non-binding date. The industry itself asked because it is safer. This also applies to other dating apps. We need to know who is signing up and who is meeting, including in the context of paedophilia and so on. In the meantime, we have also seen in the press that there was a Facebook group in which one comment was posted after another and in which there was a mention of attacks against people. Those things certainly exist. My specific question to consult with them to see how we can work with that ID notification is therefore entirely Flemish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u19	Mrs Bury, I think you're mixing up a number of things. You're talking about that chat group. That's not a dating site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u20	No, that's not what I mean. I just want to report that it exists. People are really being attacked. Gaybashing is a real existing phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u21	Mrs Bury, in relation to that chat group, I hope you will support my proposal to amend Article 150 of the Constitution, so that hate speech against homosexuals can also be effectively prosecuted. Hate speech is already a criminal offence today, and I want it prosecuted. I hope that your party will support us in this House. With regard to the dating apps, it's about media wisdom. How can we train and train young people and people in general so that they show the necessary caution? That's a community jurisdiction. You specifically asked if we would only allow people to participate in a dating app if they confirmed their identity. I'd be happy to enter into that conversation, but I don't know if I can commit to that right now. I can imagine that some of the participants in a dating app may also like their anonymity. I'm not a connoisseur and I'm not a participant, what I'm saying without judging on dating apps, but dating is happening in a discreet way, in my opinion. So I do not know whether it is a good thing that every participant is obliged to report his identity. However, I would like to put the question to the builders of such apps and study their answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The question was their own. There is still a difference between the obligation to register and the disclosure of the information provided. I'm comparing it to the corona app. There is a need to consider in detail how, if something goes wrong, the tracing can happen. I do understand the desire for non-binding participation in a dating app. The question comes from that community itself. I understand that you are not committed or committed right now, but it may be interesting to consult with that community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u23	Mr Minister, I am following closely the situation in Catalonia. I was there when Artur Mas won the election. I was also there at the referendum when the Spanish police beat up peaceful and elderly people because they came to vote for a referendum. I was there at the elections which led to the appointment of Mr Puigdemont as Prime Minister. Unfortunately, I have now missed the election because of corona. Those elections have now been won again by parties advocating Catalonia's independence. I admit that I am somewhat biased in this, but that also means that I follow the press, here and in Spain. So I was surprised when I read in an article last Monday that you had had a meeting with the Spanish Minister of Justice to deepen relations with Spain. I was surprised by the content of the consultation but also by the timing, because you do so on the same Monday when in the European Parliament the immunity of the Catalan exiles was deprived of the Catalan MEPs, including those of Mr Puigdemont. I thought that was special, especially since you, as Minister of Justice, have an important responsibility in this matter. There is still a European arrest warrant in the air. You should ensure that the rule of law is respected and that there is no appearance of partiality. I didn't think the timing of that meeting was appropriate. Did you think that was inappropriate, Mr. Secretary? Or did you think it was logical to organise such a meeting on the same Monday? Are you aware that the court has ruled on the matter here? The Brussels Appeal Court ruled on 7 January 2021 that Catalans do not receive a guarantee of a fair trial in Spain. Do you respect the ruling of our court of appeal? Will you see to it that the verdict is complied with? So will the Catalans not be extradited? How did the meeting come about? Was that at the request of the Spaniards? Was the Prime Minister also informed in advance or briefed afterwards? It would be interesting to see the appearance of partiality removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u24	Minister, at the request of the Spanish Government, the European Parliament voted on Monday 8 March to waive the parliamentary immunity of former Catalan Prime Minister Carles Puigdemont and former Ministers Comín and Ponsatí. With the waiver of immunity, Spain can once again ask the Belgian Government to extradite Carles Puigdemont to Spain. In the past, the Belgian court did not respond to these requests, but with the abolition of parliamentary immunity, the case which had already begun before the Brussels Chamber of Appeal will be reactivated. Puigdemont has already announced its intention to have the European Parliament's decision destroyed through the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. However, the Belgian court should not wait for that decision, which means that the situation will be back on your plate sooner than expected. The situation of political prisoners and their families in Spain is sufficiently well known. The country is certainly not a frontrunner in terms of respect for human rights. Since 2002, Spain has been criticised several times by the UN Committee against Torture and the European Court of Human Rights. Have you already been contacted on this by your Spanish colleague, or have you yourself been interviewing the Spanish Government about the proven human rights violations? What is the Belgian Government's position on this? What guarantees are there in view of the human rights situation in Spain and the fact that it will be a political trial, that the Belgian court will remain with its previous decision and will not therefore proceed to extradition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u25	On 8 March last, at his request, I had a digital meeting with my Spanish colleague, Mr Juan Carlos Campo. His request reached me on 22 February and 8 March was by chance the first free date in both our agendas. That's all you need to find out, Mr. Loones. It was an official conversation between two ministers, something which is difficult to describe. That's what you called that conversation on the social media. Gekonkelfoes may have been the custom of certain cabinets in the past, but that's not how I handle things. As you can imagine, I have regular bilateral contacts with foreign ministers of justice and certainly with my EU colleagues. So this time it was Spain's turn. Afterwards, the services of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were informed of the outcome, as is usually the case. Minister Campo wished to inform me of the appointment of a Spanish liaison magistrate to settle in Brussels. It will take up its duties in the coming weeks and will be competent for the three Benelux countries. Like any liaison magistrate, it will be its task to promote and facilitate judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters with the countries for which it is accredited. Concrete cases such as those of the former Catalan leaders were not addressed during maintenance. The case files are entirely in the hands of the judicial authorities and the executive does not have the power to act in them, either in Belgium or in another European country. I naturally support the Prime Minister's statement that judicial decisions must be respected in all circumstances, which I repeat every week in Parliament. The legal decisions to which you refer concerned the case of one Catalan, Mr Lluís Puig i Gordi. However, they do not prejudge subsequent decisions to be taken by the Belgian judicial authorities in respect of the other two Catalans sought by the Spanish court, namely Mr Carles Puigdemont and Mr Toni Comin. Each case must be assessed on an individual basis. That is a fundamental guarantee, specific to the rule of law. All countries may be the subject of targeted criticism or condemnation in relation to respect for fundamental rights. So far, proceedings against Mr Puigdemont and Mr Comin have been suspended because of the parliamentary immunity enjoyed by those concerned. With the waiver of immunity, the Belgian courts will probably have to rule on their case. However, Mr Puigdemont has announced that he intends to appeal to the European Court of Justice against the decision of the European Parliament to waive his immunity. According to the Spanish press, the Tribunal Supremo also referred questions to the European Court of Justice in Madrid for a preliminary ruling in order to clarify the broad lines of the application of the European arrest warrant. Account will therefore also be taken of the principles that will be put forward by the Court of Justice. Colleagues, as I have indicated, the European Arrest Warrant is a fully justified procedure, in which the Belgian Government does not have the power or the will to intervene. Colleagues, let our courts and courts decide in complete serenity. That was my starting point and will also be my end in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u26	Minister, I welcome the government's view that it is neither its competence nor its will to intervene in legal proceedings. It is important that this is done. Justice must not only be done, it must also be seen to be done . I remember it well from my law education. Justice should be above any suspicion. That is also the case for a Minister of Justice. That is why I would like to make two more points. Firstly, the request comes from Spain. That's what we're gonna write down. Nevertheless, I would like to call on you not to let any cart hit you, nor to give the impression that Belgium is getting tense in front of a cart. Spanish ministers are very skilled in creating symbolism. I hope that extra attention will be paid to this. Secondly, you are regularly active in social media. You are also actively communicating about meetings with the United Nations and with European bodies. However, I noticed that you did not communicate about that meeting or that contact. We had to discover it through the Spanish media. That means a certain amount of conceiting. You'll have to forgive me, but that's really my opinion. Finally, you refer to the judgment of the Court of Appeal and point out that it concerns one man. You're talking about Catalans wanted by Spain. On this point, too, I would call for as normal a language as possible. This is a judgment of the Court of Appeal. What is very special, however, is that it has added an additional argument to the earlier argument and makes it clear that there is a basic view, namely that there is no guarantee of a fair trial for the Catalans concerned in Spain. It also refers to the United Nations' statements in this area. At least there is a moral authority attached to the ruling of the court of appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u27	Minister, in last week's plenary, Prime Minister De Croo quoted the following words from his predecessor, Mr Charles Michel: 'Mr Puigdemont is a European citizen who has to answer for his actions, like any other European citizen who has rights and duties. In other words, he does not enjoy any privilege without being a second-class citizen." As far as these so-called acts are concerned, the only crime of those Catalans is that they have organised a referendum. They have allowed the people to choose, whatever should be possible under the rule of law, for or against an independent Catalonia. They have indeed opposed the Spanish establishment. The fact that the so-called democrats in the European Union are not awake on the Catalan issue says enough. But I am sure that Mr Puigdemont and his associates feel that they should not enjoy privileges. However, their extradition would de facto be part of a political process and even a threat to the physical and mental condition of the endorsed Catalans. The independence of the Spanish rule of law can be seriously questioned in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u28	Madam President, I have a point to make. I am not taking Mr Loones' insinuations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u29	Mr. Loones has already left. So he can't replicate anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u30	He can do that, but I have a right to say this. I have also met with my English colleague from the Justice Department, my Dutch colleague from the Justice Department, and I have not published anything about this on social media either. I'm not gonna take that kind of suspicion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u31	Minister, I have always wondered why honour services fall under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Now I know, some say you see yourself as God. That's a joke, of course. During the debates before the Council of State, it was pointed out that the government's measures were written on the basis of a single community, in particular the Roman Catholic. At present, this seems to be the case again with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 5 March. It provides for a relaxation for the organisation of religious gatherings, up to 50 people in the outdoors, starting from 1 April. That's the day before Good Friday and the start of the Christian Passover. Two weeks later the Ramadan would start for Muslims. However, the Jewish community also celebrates Easter, but that period starts one week earlier, on Saturday 27 March. Minister, I am aware that the covid figures are in a rather negative spiral today. Would you consider, on 1 April, relaxing to 50 people outside for worship, to ensure that all religions can enjoy their feasts, including the Jewish community? It is only a few days, and I do not think that would make a big difference in purely epidemiological terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u32	Madam President, Mr Freilich, I find your reference to God a little strange. All I can say in all my modesty about God is that God is everywhere, but that Herman De Croo has been everywhere, if I may answer with another joke. The decisions taken on the Consultation Committee were taken unanimously. There has been no discussion on this issue, from any government or party around the table. The date of 1 April is within a schedule, with the prospect of relaxations for different sectors on 8 March, 1 April and 1 May respectively. However, this remains to be seen in the light of the figures and evolution. These measures were not taken on the basis of one specific community of faith. I would also find it difficult to accept that, because as a liberal and democrat I am very much attached to the freedom of religion in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u33	Minister, I do understand that the date has been chosen on the basis of the months. We see that there would be relaxations on April 1st and May 1st. I just want to tell you that sometimes there are a few days in the calendar. Christmas, for example, also falls on 24 December in the evening. That cannot be changed. Therefore, I think it is important that you know that five days before the Jewish Passover is taking place. Then it would be a pity if this government did not try to do everything possible with the virologists to see what it would give if something were to be done specifically for the service. Honorary services and cultural activities are treated equally, but there is a difference. Religion is in the Constitution. There is no commercial intention behind people going to the synagogue, which is often the case in the cultural sector, such as dance events. In the cultural sector we can therefore play with that date. As far as faith is concerned, this can be much less. I continue to hope that people have eyes and ears for these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I do not need to explain it anymore: last week, the biggest police operation ever took place in our country, which produced an unlikely wealth of information for our police and judicial services. In my turn, I would like to sincerely congratulate the detectives on this. By cracking the encryption software, at least 1 billion encrypted messages could be intercepted. We need to get to work on that right now. If we really want to tackle the drug mafia, now is the time to provide additional people and resources for the police and the federal police, as agreed by the Swedish Government, including within the framework of the Power Plan. You turned out to have forgotten that last week during the plenary session. Last weekend I read an interview with you in which you also forgot something. However, that change had already been made under the Swedish government. You crossed over pretty quickly there. I've just noted that you don't like insinuations. I didn't appreciate that either. Those extra people and resources have to come. That is also important for you, because today's research is what it is, and that is what the services have to do. You will also be able to only cheer if there are effective convictions and punishments, and there is still a long way to go for that. That is the case, hence the following questions. Federal Attorney Van Leeuw warns that the court would need no less than 685 years with the current means to read all intercepted messages. So priorities will have to be set, but what can you do to ensure that as many messages as possible are analysed in order to link criminal investigations to this? There is software to screen and select messages in a targeted manner. Will it be deployed, possibly in cooperation with the private sector? In the reply you gave to Mr Gabriels last week and repeated in other fora, you said that you have made the budget available to recruit 61 additional people from the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office and the seat. Of these, 56 people have already been recruited. That's about parole lawyers and referees, so it's actually more like supporting functions, not extra magistrates. To what extent has the framework been filled today? Will the framework also be strengthened and updated? Those supportive forces are indeed necessary and useful. It is a little too far-fetched to say that they have led to a breakthrough in the research, but they are going to do a very useful job, especially with the work that comes towards them. They are therefore necessary and useful, but they also need magistrates. What will happen to the framework? How will you further update and strengthen that? Minister, you also talked about strengthening the FGP Antwerp. That has always been a difficult one, because it is partly a matter of Justice and partly a matter of Home Affairs. How much budget for strengthening the FGP Antwerp will come from the wallet of Justice? Will the work equipment, such as computers and cars, be included? In the Swedish government, there was often a discussion point between Justice and Home Affairs when investment in ICT was needed. The following is important to me, Minister. In the media yesterday or the day before yesterday it was reported that the operation would have been paid with the fine condemned by an ex-baron of the Fanchiniclan. That is money that would have been in a blocked COIV account since 2012. Is it possible to explain this a little more? How did this funding for Operation Sky happen? What have we been and are we going to be doing because of course the research has not yet been completed and the necessary budgets have been reached? Where are they getting those pennies? How do you wish to make extra use of the seizure of criminal capital? You announced that, and that is also important. I see it's been used here, too. The fight against the drug mafia and other criminal practices can be stepped up. Will you also include drug and other organised crime in your policy priorities? Will you continue to implement the Power Plan? The federal prosecutor also asked for corruption, which turns out to be an important aspect of this dossier, to be included as a priority in the new National Security Plan. You also went to the UN with a number of priorities, but that did not include the fight against drugs. Will you record that? I shall then come to my second question. The defense line of those who are suspected in this file and their lawyers became clear very quickly. This week, some of them have already said that far too many people have been bugged for no specific reason and that this way the law has been broken during the ongoing investigation. In addition, the editors of VTM News apparently were able to access some of those intercepted messages on the cryptophones in the judicial file. I have always been taught that a judicial investigation is secret, so I am somewhat concerned about that. It is important that we do everything we can to ensure that the enormous work done by the police and judicial services has not been a measure of nothing. We really need to avoid this, so this dossier needs to be handled very carefully. Now that we finally have the chance to catch big fish, we must seize them with both hands. It would be a tragedy if, as a result of any mistakes, no convictions could follow. That would be a huge blow to justice and its credibility. Hence my last two questions. Are you convinced that the procedure is still correct and that no legislation has indeed been broken, especially in view of the large number of intercepted messages? Are you investigating how parts of the judicial investigation have been able to find their way to the media?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you these questions following our pleasant exchange of views during the previous plenary session. So I will not repeat here any more the congratulations that are well deserved for everyone on the ground and also for you, for example, for your immediate commitment to this when you take office. After this praeteritio I come straight to my six questions. Minister, when discussing the policy paper, you said that the range of penalties will be used to the full and, if necessary, extended by the development of new initiatives, including a professional ban, the place and port ban and the ban on the avoidance of container cans. What is the state of play? What are you thinking, in particular, about the ban on the avoidance of container cans, as it is already being sanctioned, but the fine is negligible, given the millions of profits? What other initiatives do you have in mind? Mr. Geert Lenssens wrote an interesting piece in De Standaard the day before yesterday, in which he suggests to define a new crime, in which both producers, sellers and intermediaries of such devices are punished for criminal purposes. He also says that the use of such cryptophones is best made dependent on the registration of a licence and that, in the absence of such a licence, criminal interests are suspected. What are your views on such an arrangement? What will you do if necessary? In response to a question from colleague Sophie De Wit, you already replied that the port attorney will take control more than before. What does that mean in concrete terms? You have already explained the issue of the link several times in concrete terms, as there is a constitutional problem in this area. I would like to know what the difference is with the current arrangement. How's it going now? What are the port attorneys doing so far? What will they do in the future? Will the port attorney deal exclusively with the port, or with other matters as well? In that sense, I agree with the questions raised earlier by Mr De Wit. When discussing the policy paper, you replied to me that the multidisciplinary research teams in the five major FGPs have been incorporated into the law since 2014, but in practice do not yet exist. You committed yourself to releasing capacity for that purpose. What capacity will you free up and by when? How will these teams be assembled? Is there an Antwerp pilot project? Then what is the state of play? You have also said that this kind of drug punishment is only possible thanks to infiltration and corruption in certain key individuals. Federal Attorney Frédéric Van Leeuw therefore argued earlier to include corruption as a priority in the new National Security Plan. This was not the case in the previous plan, I understood. Are you prepared to include corruption in this? Finally, Mr Yve Driesen, Director of the Antwerp FGP, calls for a critical review of whether everyone who has access to the databases is adequately screened and whether their searches are adequately monitored. In what way will you do this for your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u36	Madam President, Minister, it has already been said on several occasions today, as was the case last week in plenary: thanks to the very clever detective work of justice and police, meanwhile known as Operation Sky, for which I too would like to express my great appreciation, the so-called secure software system Sky ECC, which we know is the preferred communication system of organized crime in general and in particular of the international drug mafia, was able to be cracked and the detectives managed to intercept about one billion encrypted messages, with apparently a wealth of information. Mr Minister, this is a very big blow, but in the coming weeks and months it will have to be seen whether the so-called large fish will also be targeted and, above all, whether sufficient people and resources will be released to read all the reports and complete the investigation. That is why I would like to ask you a few questions. First, Operation Sky is indeed a very great success, but immediately and in various areas the great euphoria was also tempered. According to the court director of the FGP Antwerp, for example, it will take at least two more years to catch the big fish. Federal Attorney Van Leeuw stated that the court with the current means needs another 685 years to be able to dissect all the messages. Toppleiters also warned that anyone who thinks that the cocaine problem in Antwerp is gone is wrong. The whole business is gonna keep running. Headpieces will continue to run their business from prison. It's just a few quotes. Even Minister of the Interior Mrs Verlinden stated last Sunday in the Wake-up programme on Sunday on ATV that we should not be naive and that the network will recover because there is a lot of money involved. These are just a few warnings we've heard in the last few days. In order not to lose the very nice results of Operation Sky, it is particularly important to make this file an absolute top priority in your policy. It is, of course, very important to link the necessary people and financial resources to that immediately. Are you prepared to give this priority within your policy and further strengthen your policy? Mrs De Wit mentioned earlier that according to the media this operation would have been paid with money from a 2012 deal between former Commissioner-General Mrs De Bolle and the American anti-drug brigade for helping to roll up a crime organization around gangster Fanchini. Can you explain this more clearly? This money will, of course, not be enough. Will you release additional, additional resources from the Justice budget, in addition to the resources to be released from Home Affairs? The further handling of the results of Operation Sky needs to be handled very carefully. That's very important. Mrs De Wit has already given a number of examples. This must be done very carefully in order to avoid all forms of procedural errors and to avoid statute of limitations. What guarantees will you provide for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. During last Thursday's plenary session, I already answered a number of questions about the ongoing investigation. Today I am asked additional questions about the investigation, about the available people and resources in the police and justice field, about the handling of organised crime and more specifically about the cocaine scam through the port of Antwerp. I will divide my answer into thirteen parts. My first answer concerns reading the intercepted messages. In the Sky file, a plan of action was drawn up between the federal prosecutor and the federal judicial police in order to enable the necessary exploitation of certain data. In addition to additional human resources, modern technology tools are also used for this purpose. For this purpose, the FGP of Antwerp, together with other services such as NTSU-CTIF, uses regular resources and budgets. This dossier also involves cooperation with international partners, such as the Netherlands and Europol. This high-tech research required the purchase of specific high-tech materials. It is true that a specific sum of money was used for this purpose, which was made available by the US justice system. This sum of money was donated by the US authorities to the Belgian police in 2012, as a thank you for an important contribution to the roll-up of a large international criminal network. The Minister of the Interior, the College of Attorney General and myself have approved this. As far as I'm concerned, the money was well spent. In 2012, the money was deposited into the account, where it then stood up for eight years. At the end of 2020, we were informed of the amount paid in and I decided, together with the Minister for the Interior, that it could be spent on that case. Sometimes it can happen quickly. My second answer concerns the means for the police. With regard to police resources, resources were made available for staff and material reinforcement, including for NTSU-CTIF. That's the police department responsible for intercepting communications and intercepting data. They have asked for an additional EUR 32 million, and that amount has also been earmarked. However, not only FGP Antwerp, but all the executives of the judicial police need to be strengthened proportionally. For the Antwerpers in this session, the problem is not just in Antwerp. I know that Antwerp is often mentioned, here in a negative context. But there are also problems in Brussels and elsewhere, as you know. The reinforcements take place in many places. The workload arising from the Sky file is distributed. Moreover, it will not be a single case. You know that 450 places for the FGP were declared vacant on the Home Affairs budget through mobility. Several questions have already been asked about this in recent months, Mrs De Wit, to which I have replied. As far as the strengthening of justice is concerned, last year it was decided to make 61 people available immediately. In the meantime, that's what happened when I became Minister of Justice. Especially for the Antwerp Justice Department, we were able to give the prosecutors and the seat a serious support in the fight against organised crime. Besides, we shouldn't be doing too little about that. This is about parquet lawyers, referenda and administrative staff. They can assist and relieve the magistrates of many tasks. With the recruitment of a total of 25 lawyers, referenda and others, we also meet the demands of both the public prosecutor and the seat to have more lawyers and referenda. In the context of the EUR 125 million additional funding for Justice, the recruitment of additional magistrates, both at the Office and at the seat, will be launched this year. This will also benefit the fight against organised crime. So these 61 people are just a start. There's gonna be more. I would also like to point out the speed with which these 61 people have been recruited. I've informed you that 56 out of 61 are already on the clock. There too you can see that the Justice Department can switch quickly if it has to. That is not always the case, and will not always be the case, ladies and gentlemen. We all know the problems of statutes and recruitment in government. But also there we worked hard day and night to get things right. Then there is the question of the seizure of criminal assets. There are legal procedures and international agreements. Of course, every effort will be made to take down maximum criminal capabilities. In view of the ongoing investigation, it would obviously not be wise to go into detail here. With regard to the element of corruption that was addressed in the questions of colleagues De Wit and Segers, corruption is a spearhead in this dossier, inspired by the approach of the black port. It concerns both active, passive, public and private corruption. The files are in full swing and the Central Office for Combating Corruption is up to the limit. A new element I can tell you is that the CDBC has been strengthened to 66 full-time equivalents in recent months. That too is a not insignificant fact. This service has been very undermanned in recent years. In fact, we have not waited for the CDBC to intervene in this dossier and made it possible to strengthen it. In addition, the College is currently consulting the various public administrations on the areas for action to be strengthened in the fight against tax and social fraud. On the police front, the Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police has appointed a policy advisor specifically responsible for drawing up an action plan Follow the money. Sixthly, the National Security Plan is currently being prepared. The approach to organised crime and organised drug crime is a priority here, as it was already included as a priority in the coalition agreement, in my policy statement and in that of my Home Affairs colleague. Here again, I refer to the answers to previous questions in this committee. Mrs De Wit also refers to the UN Congress. I didn't go there. Even if ministers are allowed to do these kinds of movements, I have not done so. I did submit a contribution. I made two speeches. One speech, which you apparently watched, along with many members of your party, including your chairman, was about trafficking in human beings. A second speech was about general crime and I specifically referred to drug crime, but you apparently did not watch that video. Then I come to the seventh question. Mr Segers, in the law on various provisions, I will take an initiative to introduce a port ban as a punishment. A port ban as an autonomous penalty means a specific temporary or permanent ban on entering one or more Belgian ports. If it is forbidden to be in a port, it will by definition no longer be possible to practise in that port. We will extend Article 4 of the Drug Act to include the new autonomous additional penalty of the port ban. It is a place and port ban for persons convicted of drug-related crimes. After evaluation under the Drug Act, we can look at including this as a general criminal offence in the new Criminal Code, which will apply to more offences than just drugs. Mr Segers, I fully support you in saying that there should be no escape opportunities for the criminals if the container in the port of Antwerp is selected for the scan. There too, the ongoing research has taught us a great deal. Last week, concrete agreements were made between the security services and the competent service to ensure optimal control of selected containers. You will understand that I cannot give details on this, Mr Segers, only that it rains more than ever seizures of cocaine. The results of the investigation are not unusual. Mr Segers, the port attorney will, in the first instance, direct the handling of the scam through the port of Antwerp. In the meantime, there is an agreement between the parquet-general of Antwerp and the parquet-general of East Flanders, that all investigations of cocaine scam through the Antwerp harbour will be dealt with by the parquet of Antwerp, including the cocaine that is due on Linkeroever. It must be clear, however, that, even though Sky is largely located in and around the port of Antwerp, it is of such magnitude that an ad hoc structure was set up for the direction at the end of last year, under the direction of the College of Attorneys General, in order to be able to orient flexibly and, if necessary, reorientate, even over the resorts. For the time being, because of the specific needs of this dossier, we have a central direction at the College of Attorneys General and not at the port attorney's office. On the MOTEMs, Mr Segers, I can tell you that the five major PPPs provide for the handling of cases by the multidisciplinary research teams. Currently, the composition of the mixed files happens punctually per file. With regard to the screening of databases, all staff of the integrated police are currently being screened in recruitment, as are external ICT consultants working with the police. Furthermore, it is always possible to check which police officer checks the police database. Unlawful consultation is regularly prosecuted and punished by the prosecution, especially if these are hand-and-string services for criminal organisations. Mrs. De Wit asked if there was any breach of law due to the large number of intercepted messages. Mrs. Dillen asked if I was conducting an investigation into press leaks. You know that it is not the Minister of Justice who conducts the investigations, but the independent judiciary. I'm confident they'll do what they have to do. It is not for me to say what alleged facts they should investigate. In addition, the research in Operation Sky is conducted under the expert leadership of an excellent research judge. It conducts the investigation on a charge basis but also on a charge basis. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. Mr Segers, as regards your question about the free gallery in De Standaard on Monday 15 March. I receive many proposals and my services are engaged in a lot of legislative work under the various provisions of the law. However, until now there is no provision to criminalise sellers or providers of such devices for criminal purposes. I got to be honest, I didn't get a proposal like that either from our security services or the D.A.'s office. So that was not suggested by them. They also let me know that any registration of users of such cryptophones raises questions, such as what exactly should be defined as a cryptophone. They also consider that registration will not prevent such devices from being used for criminal purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, the investigation is ongoing. Justice and police are doing everything in their power to ensure that this is done in the best possible way. I would also like to make it clear that this is done with respect for the rights of defence and, of course, the guarantees of our criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u38	Minister, you have answered a lot of questions, but you have not answered a lot of questions either. I asked you a specific question about the implementation of the Antwerp framework. Where are they today? How many people are gonna join us? Is that updated? We know that the framework is decades old, because the demand for updating has long been pending. This was already requested in the framework of the Power Plan. During the period of current cases after the Swedish Government, this has disappeared under the dust and I hope that it will now be removed from the dust. You have not answered my questions about the framework, but the framework is important. I note that EUR 150 million has been earmarked for the additional recruitment of magistrates. We do not know to what extent this is for the Antwerp framework or for other frameworks. The EUR 150 million was not yet available when the budget was adopted, but I do not know what is going on with budgetary control. I am therefore curious, since we are now in the second half of March, whether the measures you are announcing and the amounts you are reporting will be reflected in the adjusted budgets. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . It is only in budgetary control that we can see what has been done. Otherwise, it's too easy to spread amounts and numbers around. I hope that you are right and that the money will indeed come, just as a lot of recurrent budgets have been made available under the Swedish Government. You should know that, since you were part of that government back then. Can it go that fast? Apparently, sometimes a little faster than other times. A lot of things have been waiting for a while and there can be a bit of a tooth in that. There is certainly a lot of work to be done on that. You also did not answer any questions regarding the part of the additional budget for strengthening the PHP. What part of that is charged to the Justice Department? You have not answered that question, but we will investigate it further and try to find out. My biggest concern right now isn't really who did what. You felt it was necessary to do so, while you were also part of the government at the time. I'll let you take care of it. I want to focus on the future and the responsibilities that are now in place to bring this to a successful conclusion. Many people need to cooperate, not least the people on the ground themselves, who are not always doing so in the same obvious circumstances today, even if you, as a minister, say that it can happen quickly. It is important that they are supported in all possible ways and that the research is closely monitored. Don't get me wrong. You don't like innuendo. However, it was almost on the tip of your tongue. However, I did not wish to question the competence of the investigating judge at any time. On the contrary, I am convinced that this is a competent judge of inquiry and that he deserves all the respect he can get for his hard work, that he sometimes has to do in difficult circumstances. Minister, I am not going to let you make that insinuation, namely that I questioned his competence. That is not right. Only I notice that this can be done through all kinds of channels and that an investigation is so fast on the pavement. We could already read messages in the media. Minister, excuse me for worrying and worrying. It must be an appeal to all concerned, namely that, if we do not want to destroy the work of many hands, we must respect the secret of the research so that the research can be carried out on a charge and on a charge, as it should be. Everyone has a responsibility in this respect, including the media. Otherwise, we will certainly continue to monitor the situation, including the possibilities of ICT and the seizure of criminal assets. Minister, there is still a lot of work to be done. So we will certainly follow up on the dossier further. In the meantime, we hope that research can proceed as it should and that we will feel more and better strengthened on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u39	Thank you very much, Minister, for your commitment and also for your detailed reply. I am pleased that the initiative on the port ban is now being taken through the law on various provisions. In addition, I have heard a lot of other very positive things, including that the fight against corruption is a clear spearhead and that you are also tackling the escape possibilities for containers in scanning. I'm glad the ongoing investigation has learned a lot about that. I think it's wonderful news that it's raining seizure now. The task of the port attorney has already become a little clearer to me. However, what is not clear to me is your answer in relation to the MOTEMs, the multidisciplinary teams. I have heard you say that they are now being compiled punctually, file by file. I thought the earlier law provided for a structural embedding. I have heard Minister Verlinden say earlier that there would be a pilot project, but that is all I really know about it. I'll probably come back to you on that. As far as criminality is concerned, I still have a number of questions to ask. I understand you haven't received that suggestion from the security services or the state's attorney's office. It seems to me that it is worth examining it further. In the meantime, of course, we are following this very closely. I wish you every success in continuing and increasing this important battle. I'll get back to you on that soon. .
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer, which I will certainly read again in great detail. I have two further reservations. Firstly, you mentioned the rapid recruitment for the reinforcement of the FGP, which is very handsome. After all, the FGP has been a requesting party for years. Minister, I just hope that the candidates will be adequately screened. After all, the speed with which we are now operating must certainly not lead some people to feel called upon to strengthen the FGP, albeit with other intentions than to help bring it to a successful conclusion. So I really hope that you and your colleague, Mr Verlinden, will monitor or monitor this very closely. Of course, you don't do that yourself. That is, after all, a concern that we both share. Secondly, Minister, my main concern is the numerous warnings, of which I have given a number of examples. However, these are just a few examples. There have been numerous warnings in all the media in recent days. Specialists warn that a lot of efforts will have to be made on the ground to ensure that Operation Sky remains a successful operation and has not been a measure of nothing. I have given you examples. I'm sure you'll know about it yourself. Keep an eye on things and work on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u41	The Minister would like to add something to his reply very quickly. Don't make your answer too long. After all, we are already running a little late in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u42	Madam President, that is not my style. Mrs De Wit gave me a number of punctual questions that I would like to answer. With regard to the EUR 150 million and the framework in Antwerp, the debate on budgetary control is in full swing within the core and the government. We will take decisions before the Easter recess and communicate in all transparency about exactly what that reinforcement will entail. As for the FGP, I thought I said that, but I will repeat it again. The additional people and resources for the FGP are on the Home Affairs budget. Justice is responsible for the resources for NTSU-CTIF, the service I have clarified. As far as the investigating judge is concerned, I have absolutely no intention of saying that you are insinuating anything. I certainly didn't mean to. I just wanted to say that I understand that you and Mr Dillen are asking questions about possible procedural errors and dangers, but I assume that with the excellent people working for the Justice Department, especially this investigating judge, everything is well guarded. There is no zero risk, but this case is well guarded and prepared. The Attorney General's College is also following this case closely. It is a very big matter and it goes without saying that the Justice Department must ensure that everything goes well. Mr Segers, in relation to the MOTEMs, I suggest that you ask the question again explicitly or put a written question. I'll answer that then. Mrs Dillen, I agree with you when you say that we need to look at this carefully. I have always said in my policy statement and policy paper that we can manage this problem, provided that we have a good approach. No one can solve it completely. Your party can't promise that either. You know this is not soluble, but we need to control it and control it. I think that with this operation we have taken an important step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u43	Madam President, Minister, I was in Liège yesterday. I met federal police officers and traders. I met people who were really disturbed by the violence they were confronted with. Between 200 and 300 breakers attacked law enforcement forces, traders, degraded urban furniture, and returned to shops where they destroyed the interior. There were raids and robberies. The number of police officers injured is 36, including 9 requiring hospitalization. And not a word from the Minister of the Interior. Yet there were federal police officers there, who were injured. Not a word from the Home Secretary all weekend. A deafening silence! I didn't come back! But since my question was rather about your powers, Mr Minister, I am not going to participate in the debate in the Committee on the Interior in order to give it the reproofs that I have just made here indirectly. An important element will follow. Our colleague, Mr Goffin, is going to question you about urban riots. I support the proposal that he is going to make to you, if it is to come up with something concrete and not just discussions and exchanges. But I really want to get to what you produced when you took your responsibilities. You have produced a very important act with regard to our police officers. On 24 November, you issued a circular to establish an accelerated procedure for violence against the police. In the situation we are facing in Liège, this will be useful. Prior to this circular, a person who injured an officer had only to appear in court if the officer in question was incapacitated for four months. Don't you realize that? You have made the useful and necessary decision for our police officers to lower this threshold to one day of incapacity for work. This is a real step forward for our police officers and, at times, for impunity that was established within the framework of the previous circular. With the arrangements you have made, there is no longer any standing for reasons of expediency; perpetrators of violence against police officers are systematically brought to justice physically before the public prosecutor's office, neither by telephone; the accelerated procedure is in place; the persons are tried in the context of the immediate appearance procedure. The question I want to ask you, minister, is whether we can't go any further in this area. This is a question that is relayed to me by a number of police organizations. You can always push a policeman, you can push him, you can hit him, slap him, kick him without bringing him to 24 hours of disability. I believe that what is important is the act of aggression which is produced against the policeman and which must necessarily be punished. Can the 24-hour device be reduced to the act produced against the police officer or is there a formal regulatory barrier that stops you within 24 hours? Another element on which I wanted to question you is that related to the status of aggrieved person. Today, many police officers who have been assaulted do not know that they should be asked. Could this not be done automatically? A number of police officers injured in the course of their duties read the situation as if things were not being followed and as if they were not informed of the actions that the magistrate could take. This gives them a sense of impunity. Could you also think about making the injured person's status automatic for assaulted police officers? Thank you, Madam President. I've been a little busy and I beg you to apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u44	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written question. 55015351C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u45	Apparently, the two to three hundred people converged in Liège were not all from Liège, but also from Brussels and even from France. In addition, several police officers were wounded again. In the press, we could read about the number of arrests. In the written version of my question, to which I refer, I am looking more specifically at some figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u46	In reply to the questions put by Mrs Bury and Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I can say that immediately after the events on Sunday morning, six adults and four minors were brought to justice. They've been made available to a judge. The six year olds have appeared before the investigating judge. Two year-olds were then arrested by the investigating judge. The two suspects, one without permanent residence and one dominated in Seraing, are both Belgian. There have already been legal backgrounds on violence, including acts of rebellion by one of them. There were insufficient indications of direct involvement in the riots compared to the remaining four adults. It is not up to the Minister of Justice or Members of Parliament to question the serious work of the police and the Liège police in the file. The four minors were brought before a juvenile judge. One of them was placed in a public institution for the protection of the youth of the rebel leader with aggravating circumstances. He's confessing to throwing stones at the police. The other three were the subject of measures taken by the head of the concealment to the extent that they were found in possession of stolen sports items. In reply to Mrs Bury's question, I can tell you that at the present stage the Liège parish has no information that would indicate that the riots were the result of a previous organisation or that the rioters were part of Black Lives Matter. The exploitation of the images of the city of Liège's cameras is under way as well as research into the seizure of private and press images. Nothing makes me doubt the seriousness with which people in the field are doing that work. The investigation is under way. The police and the judiciary make every effort to identify, arrest and prosecute the perpetrators of these sordid acts. So I do not accept that some would point the finger at the police officers or the magistrates in this matter in a gratuitous way. In a rule of law, we don't just lock people up. It is not because someone is present at such a manifestation that he can be convicted and imprisoned on the spot. In a rule of law, it is a judge who decides on the basis of precise elements and that is called evidence of guilt. I am confident that justice and police will achieve results, as have been achieved by the Brussels police and justice authorities in the inquiry into the riots of 13 January. I am referring to another question from Mrs Bury in committee. In that investigation, which the press unfortunately does not report on, 18 people were arrested and identified. That is the work of the police and the judiciary, but of course nothing is said about it. To say that nothing happens and that everything is left in its course is therefore flagrantly incorrect. All governments, the mayor on the ground, the local authorities, the police and the Justice Department take the matter very seriously. Let me turn to Mr. Ducrame's questions. Circular COL 10/2017 (the enhanced directive on how to deal with suspects of violence against the police) was applied in this case. The six major suspects were all arrested by order of the Public Prosecutor's Office and brought before the investigating judge. This is either a referral to the investigating judge or an expedited summons to appear in court. I agree with you, Mr. Ducrame. Any act of violence against the police is completely unacceptable, even if it does not lead to incapacity for work, especially in the context of riots and group looting. The Attorney General also acted accordingly. All suspects arrested were brought before the judge and COL 10/2017 therefore does not impede justice for acts of violence that do not result in incapacity for work. I also agree that there must be a good exchange of information between the judiciary and the police. With regard to the measures taken by the courts, I know that the police are either the civil party in a hearing or the person injured during the investigation. Already before these facts, I had asked the College of Attorneys General to consult with the police unions on the application of the COL 10/2017. Your suggestion to automatically assign injured person status can certainly be addressed. Finally, I am convinced that the police and the judiciary will succeed in punishing those responsible for these acts. We're only at the beginning of the investigation. The case is anything but closed. The camera footage is being exploited, but you should not underestimate the difficulty of being able to arrest individual suspects with sufficient evidence. People have been cut down and cut down, which doesn't make it easy. As has also been shown in Brussels, the case is a particular priority for the security services in Liège and in the police and justice sectors. They will do everything in their power to track down and prosecute suspects, and with sufficient evidence, the Justice Department will also condemn them. Madam President, I would just like to add that I will return to this subject in my reply to Mr Goffin when he asks his question later in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u47	Minister, I am sometimes a little hard, including with the ministers of the majority and even if I am a member of the majority, but when it is good, it must be said. I really find that you bring in your answer the expected firmness. It's really important that you're on appointments like these. Indeed, we must really end impunity. The figures you have given in relation to the availability are important. These are signals that must be picked up in the media. Both the justice system and the police are on hand to ensure that there is no impunity for riots such as this one, attacks and damage. It's really important and we'll follow that with you. You are right to point out that it is a question of punishing the real perpetrators of aggression. It is not forbidden in our country to protest. It is forbidden to break the policeman and break the merchant as these people did, for some of them, in Liège. I hear what you say for the rest, the fact that disability is not an obstacle; we will see in the future whether a change of circular is useful or not. But today, it is not an obstacle. I hear what you are saying, and I thank you for the fact that in the future we can consider making the status of aggrieved person automatic. I'll come back to you for details on the follow-up to the investigation in the coming weeks. Thank you very much for your response and determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u48	Minister, I am the last to doubt that the public prosecutor and the services are working well and hard and are serious about this. I'm not saying that. You say that good work is being done: 18 people have been arrested, two of whom have been arrested, while four people have not had enough evidence. I think that is very poor, since 200 people have beaten things up there. I think that is a very poor result. You also say that the people involved are difficult to identify because they wear masks. That can be all very well and I know that it is very difficult work. You also refer to indications of guilt, but I always have to ask the same questions, namely whether there is enough staff on the ground and whether more resources should be allocated to it? That is a very important question and it is precisely in this area that the problem arises. If we want to achieve good results with the necessary investigations and correct detentions, then more resources should be allocated to this. You also point out that it was not an organized meeting to cut it short. It is clear, however, that there were people from France who were not there by chance, so that must also be examined further. What were those people doing there? Is the message that it was an organized meeting taken completely out of the sky? Sometimes you say that I only make gratuite claims, but I think there was a lot more going on there and that needs to be investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u49	Mr Minister, everyone has seen the footage of a mass of rioters hitting stores. Probably have cameras everywhere in those stores. I am therefore disappointed that only six adults and four minors from the entire gang who were there could be arrested. Of course, we live in the rule of law, and it is by no means our intention to condemn everyone on the streets. However, I have recently asked you for the figures on the impact of the Brussels riots on the transition from 2019 to 2020. So far, this has resulted in one conviction for riots that took place last year, and the rest is almost all still under investigation. That is what the Justice Department really needs to do. Hopefully, the investigation will indeed continue and will effectively lead to convictions. It is indeed not a good signal for the Justice Department if it is not linked to it. We must also think of those who have suffered damage from these riots. It is very bad if what has been built up is literally destroyed overnight, not to mention the police officers who try to do their job every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u50	Madam President, Minister, I was questioned a few weeks ago by public statements and statements recently made in the media by representatives of the League of Human Rights (LDH) and on the PoliceWatch.be website. I had put one question to the Minister of the Interior and another to yours. Your colleague in charge of the Department of the Interior told me that indeed, a denigration had been found against the police services and excesses of speech had been deplored. Your colleague stated that she had no information about the legal status of this association, nor about the manager of the PoliceWatch.be website. The question that I had put to your attention was, curiously, directed inside without explanation. She seems to have now found her way back, and that's good news. Indeed, on the subject, questions relating to the law remain. The publications of PoliceWatch.be and the public statements of the representatives of the League of Human Rights contain amalgams that could undermine the principle of assistance and our rule of law. I imagine you have been able to collect your information, but I would nevertheless like to illustrate my point with two or three examples. First of all, there was the statement made by the PoliceWatch coordinator on 11 February: "Attention, the prosecutor often tends to want to protect his police and to believe the word of the sworn policeman more than that of the citizen." Another example is that in the brochures published on the site, there is talk of a criminal regime that is extremely favourable to police officers, and this sentence is quoted: "Medical doctors are encouraged to follow the instructions of police officers, which could put them at risk not only with their medical ethics, but also with the criminal law." Cherry on the cake, the home page of the Ligue website presents a "Wanted" poster drawn and that illustrates a policeman with a reward at the key. A few days later, I read that the representative of the Belgian State, in an ongoing trial against the LDH, had noted in his conclusions the negationist nature of the LDH's remarks. Minister, I think all this is a bit of a lot. It seems to me that many of the elements I have read or heard are unworthy, at the very least have some hatred towards our democracy and our rule of law, and are certainly in violation of public services and the principles of equality and impartiality. Minister, what is the legal status of this initiative of the "Police Service Observatory" and the LDH association? Has an analysis of the writings and statements issued by the representatives of the LDH and PoliceWatch.be concerning the impartiality of justice, our Criminal Code, the ethics of medical personnel and their submission to the police been carried out by your services? The question of defamation or slander seems to arise. Can you inform us about the actions or statements that have been denounced as negationists by the Belgian state lawyer? Finally, what is your own analysis, as Minister of Justice, of such statements and brochures? What initiatives have you taken or intend to take against such statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u51	Madam President, Mr Pivin, I read my colleague Verlinden's answer at the committee meeting on 3 March. Indeed, it is absolutely deplorable to adopt a contemptuous and condescending tone against the police. Until the contrary is proved, the whole of it and all its members deserve our respect. On the other hand, each of us enjoys freedom of association and assembly, as well as freedom of expression. These values are also fundamental. And I know very well that they are also in your eyes, dear colleague. It seems essential to me that the police themselves seek to dialogue with this type of association, in order to dispel misunderstandings and, above all, prejudices. At this stage, I do not think that it is up to the justice services to analyse this issue proactively or prospectively, at least as long as it is not an offence – even if one can deplore such remarks. If there were to be any offences (defamation, slander), it would be up to the police and the judiciary to do their job. You know that as Minister of Justice, I am particularly committed to the independence of the judiciary in its judicial function. I will therefore not instruct the judiciary in any order in this regard. However, I would like to thank you for your question. Notwithstanding all the above, the police deserve more respect. I fully agree with you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u52	Minister, I have always learned that dialogue must be part of a form of mutual respect. When the police want to engage in dialogue with an association such as the League of Human Rights, this dialogue can only take place in the context of mutual respect. In this case, I believe that we have come out of this framework and that a report should at least be sent to the authorities of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation – I obviously do not have any recommendations to make to you. Indeed, as you certainly know, these initiatives are subsidized by the public authorities, in this case the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. In my view, the latter should question the merits of maintaining this type of subsidy. illuminating reports from the interior or the justice system could, no doubt, allow for a more elaborate reflection on the subject. Minister, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u53	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u54	Ms Gabriels, the contract of the software developer Bavak, the project OSINT and SOCMINT, also called Bavak after the supplier's name, had as an objective to give the State Security, ADIV and federal police a better way to make operational searches on the internet. I can confirm that the Defence Purchase Service, as the lead service in the contract, officially notified Bavak to cancel the contract on 23 February 2021. I also insisted on clarity.There is no point in continuing to invest in projects if, after a long try, they do not deliver the expected result. The second question concerns a new alternative. A new alternative solution has been found that is currently working. It goes without saying that, for reasons of discretion and security, I must not give any further details. I can tell you that the scope of the alternative lies elsewhere and is also much more limited than that of the Bavak contract. This also means that there is only a fraction of the cost involved. Your third question concerns the revision of the systems. The State Security has started the global review of ICT and information management systems since 2017. The aim is to better respond to the strategic challenges of secure data management. State Security must achieve the European standard for intelligence services by establishing a secure intelligence platform of data collection and processing and by providing secure data flows, in particular within the government. In the end, the choice was made by the NVS Smals because of their expertise and flexibility, because of the concerns of sovereignty and because of the guarantees offered by the NVS, namely that the Security of the State with the project will be able to manage an IT platform autonomously. Since 2016, 22.5 million has been invested in these projects with the budgets for IDP Terro. The original deadline was set at 31 December 2020, but this date is postponed by 18 months. Work is ongoing and a test phase could be launched shortly. As far as your last two questions are concerned, it is possible, but it remains difficult. The security of the State is certainly an attractive employer for such rare profiles. The baremas in the public sector, on the other hand, may keep these technical profiles away. That's why state security is now using Egov Select, the federal government's IT recruitment agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u55	Minister, I understand that the current project has been discontinued and that a new project has been awarded, which is cheaper and hopefully more efficient. Digitalisation is very important and necessary to combat serious crime. I hope that, in addition to the financial resources, you will also be able to attract the right profiles and implement the right systems within the government and more specifically the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u56	Minister, I am a little surprised that there is not an actua debate on this today and that there is no other party asking questions about the following. The Vilvoordse Noura Firoud moved to Syria in 2013 as a 17-year-old, where she married a Vilvoord Syrian fighter, who has disappeared without a trace to date. Shortly after leaving for Syria, Noura Firoud was prosecuted by the court for participation in the activities of a terrorist group and the recruitment of fighters. Because Noura Firoud was in Syria, she could not be imposed. In February 2019, she was sentenced by the Brussels correctional court in absentia to five years in prison for demonstrating that she had actively served IS. She was still in Syria and was missing. After offering her three children to the Turkish authorities in August 2020, she opposed the Belgian conviction. She was held in a Turkish detention center until 15 October. On 15 October 2020 she was transferred to Belgium. The mayor of Vilvoorde, Hans Bonte, responded satisfied with her return in the press. The parish of Halle-Vilvoorde stated that she was transferred to the prison on her arrival where she stayed for a while. Afterwards she was placed under electronic supervision. On 2 November 2020 and on 25 February 2021, at the request of Firoud, the new correctional process was postponed. On 11 March 2021, the Brussels Chamber of Appeal decided that electronic surveillance would be lifted. First of all, how long did Noura Firoud effectively stay in the cell after she was retrieved from Syria? Secondly, what was the justification for placing it under electronic supervision? Thirdly, what was the justification for removing electronic surveillance? Fourthly, the new correctional process has already been postponed twice at the request of Firoud. What was the justification for the delay? Fifthly, how can you explain that a person sentenced to five years in prison for terrorism has been released from prison for several months after returning to Belgium? Sixthly, how will we deal with IS women returning to Belgium, whether or not they are underage children?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u57	Colleague, thank you for your questions. Noura Firoud left for Syria on 25 July 2013. She was still a minor at the time. On 19 February 2019, she was sentenced by default by the Dutch court of first instance in Brussels to five years imprisonment and a fine of 1,000 euros. Her immediate arrest was also ordered. Following this decision, a European arrest warrant was issued by the federal prosecutor. On 12 September 2020, Ms Firoud presented herself to the Turkish police on her own initiative, together with her three children. The Turkish authorities did not take into account any of the facts which led to her being expelled to Belgium by the Turkish authorities on 15 October 2020. On her return, the arrest warrant was executed immediately. She stayed in custody from 15 October to 10 March, the day on which the Chamber of Incriminate of Brussels decided to release her on conditions. She effectively stayed in the cell until 6 January, the date on which she was placed under electronic supervision, pending her opposition. It was released on 10 March 2021 under conditions. I can inform you of the reasons for the decision to release her under conditions or to postpone the proceedings of her case. She was released on 10 March under the conditions of the Chamber of Indict, pending the examination on the substance of her objection. We all know that justice works independently on an individual case, and within the limits of the law, which was voted on in Parliament. It is not for me to judge that. I can't, I can't, and I don't want to, Mr Metsu. That is the essence of the trias politician, the separation of powers, and I defend it as Minister of Justice. I can also add that the OCAD estimates the threat posed by her as level 2, which means moderate. Of course, they are still on the OCAD list, which means that they are followed and monitored as a matter of priority by the services in the local task force, as well as locally in the LIVC. There is also your question about dealing with IS women. I would like to thank you for your very interesting question. We have built up a lot of experience here over the past few years, which you know. You know that several mothers have returned in recent years. You will no doubt remember, in your capacity as chairman of the Special Committee on Terror, the return of, for example, four women to the Swedish Government in 2017. Mr Metsu, you know that we are currently talking about a maximum of 13 mothers in the Al-Hol or Al-Roj camps. You met some of them at the Al-Roj camp in December 2020. Among others about the Antwerp Jessie V.E. You had the following recorded in De Morgen and I quote: 'He is therefore impressed by the hostility in Al-Hol and by the regret of Jessie V.E.'. You said, "I think she should leave, but who are we to judge?" You continued: "There should be a real research team to evaluate on a case-by-case basis." Thank you, Mr Metsu. After all, what you suggested at the time is exactly what the current government will do, namely send a research team and study it on a case-by-case basis. I would like to thank you for that tip, as I would also like to thank you for the tip of the victim coaches, to which you have rightly referred, as I have noted, in the social media. That's very good. This is a constructive way of working with the opposition. I've seen other reactions from members of your party. However, I must confess that I can taste yours better. In view of the danger posed by mothers, we will decide whether they can return with the children in question. All mothers are the subject of the Criminal Justice Approach, which means that all women involved are taken into detention upon arrival in Zaventem, or in the context of criminal execution, if they were convicted in absentia, with, of course, the possibility, as it should be in a rule of law, of resisting, or in pre-trial detention in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation. I told you before, our country will do whatever is necessary for the safety of our country and our people. That's the point. So much for my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for referring to the good cooperation with the team coaches. That's absolutely right. I support and will continue to support you for 100%. I would have liked to discuss my experience here with you, instead of you reading business in De Morgen. That is where I said that I spoke to eleven of these terrorist women and that one of them is quite displaced from the group. I have never or never told you to bring her back to Belgium, please. But there's got to be an investigation team over there, otherwise we'll never know anything and we'll stay blind there. In six years there has not been a Belgian research team. If we dare to do so, I find it difficult to imagine that experts in the field would not dare to do so. You don't consciously do that. I know you too well and you're too professional for that. You don't deliberately misinterpret my words either. I just said there's variation in those women. I never told them to bring them back to Belgium, to try them here and to let them serve their sentence here. Then we come to the case of Noura Firoud who has not been in prison for five months, instead of five years. Then it's gonna be very dangerous. If the women of Syrian warriors return here and you say, "I am not going to judge justice." But you're Minister of Justice. You literally say you're not going to judge. That is the separation of powers. But they do depend on your decision and on your government. Suppose you decide to take these women back and Justice decides otherwise than it's in your head. You may say that you hope that they are in detention for five years and are actively employed on them. But if your justice department decides otherwise, it's gonna be a nasty soup I've been warning you about for years. I hope you will take that and not say that despite your decision, you have nothing to say about justice because of the separation of powers. I think we all deserve more and better. Let me finish with a positive note. The fact that you are going to support the victims with the help of the team coaches is a step in the right direction. You will not do that because the symbolic date of 22 March is approaching, but you are doing it with complete conviction. There's still a lot of work on the shelf, as you know. I will be very happy to work on that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u59	I would like to thank you for those last words, but I would like to clarify something so that there is no misunderstanding. I won't judge the verdict of a court of law. I won't. That's not for me. It's been insinuated here that I should. I think that's a dangerous statement. Judges or magistrates should be able to rule in full independence. That was the case with the AI on 10 March. It is not for a Minister of Justice to judge this. That would be a flagrant mockery of the independence of our jurisdiction. I invite you to read articles about this in De Standaard today and also an opinion piece by a judge on the website of the VRT. I hold on to the independence of the judiciary. The legal framework, the five years and the margins that are prescribed, is a legal framework that we have established together in the previous government, Mr Metsu. As long as the judges remain within the legal framework, they have every right to make a judgment. It is not for me to judge that. If that is no longer the case, we will fall into populism, where people have the impression that the Minister of Justice will rewrite judgments and judgments. I'll never do that. I'll never do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u60	No one's asking you to. I think we're talking a little side by side, which will not be your intention. You say you won't judge it. No, because there is the separation of powers, but it is your policy position. You create the legal framework. Now you de facto say that you are quite satisfied with the fact that someone like Noura Firoud is free after five months, without an anklet. That's what I'm getting out of that. You say we've taken care of those five years together. You know very well that it may be more for us. We got the best out of the can. I understand now that your government is calling for stricter sanctions. Then don't wait for that. Let's start with it. I will press the green button when you ask me to impose stricter penalties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u61	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u62	Has Belgium received an official request for an arrest warrant against this journalist since 2018? Has the government expressed any criticism of the intimidation and threats of "neutralization" of the Turkish government against opponents living in Belgium? Did you ask the Turkish government to withdraw this Belgian national from the lists of "terrorists"? Do you confirm that the Turkish intelligence services are active in our territory? Do they, in particular, try to weaken or spy on opponents in Belgium? How does Belgium limit the activities of the Turkish intelligence services and their impact? Has Belgium provided, and if so, in how many cases does it continue to provide close protection to people who are critical of the Turkish government? Does she do it against Bahar Kimyongür in view of the threats and the public price?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been familiar with the sensitivity of Mr Kimyongür's case for almost 20 years. I hope, however, that you will understand that I will not be able to answer all the questions. Some of them fall within the remit of other ministers. Moreover, it would not be appropriate to move me forward on such a sensitive matter. First, has Belgium received an official request for an arrest warrant? The answer is simple: no! I would also like to point out that Mr Kimyongür has been Belgian for years. Regarding your second, third and fourth question, Turkish intelligence services have, like other services, posted liaison officers in Belgium. These are accredited to the State Security on Belgian territory. The Turkish government maintains the PKK and the Gülen movement as one of its counter-terrorism priorities. The Turkish authorities are therefore seeking information or developing judicial investigations, particularly at the international level, concerning individuals deemed to be associated with these organizations. Abroad, members of the Gülen movement were repatriated to Turkey under duress, with the intervention of a Turkish intelligence service and sometimes with the support of local authorities. Such actions have not taken place in Belgium. There is currently no indication that this will happen. Belgium has welcomed asylum seekers from Turkey. Some have obtained political refugee status. In this context, our country assumes its responsibilities in respect of the Geneva Convention. Turkey has requested the extradition of various Gülenists, but the Belgian courts have never accepted this request, precisely in view of the fear that they might face political prosecution in their country of origin. Justice has assumed its responsibility. Your second and third questions fall within the competence of my colleague from Foreign Affairs. With regard to your fifth question, in the context of its legal tasks and within its means, the State Security monitors the activities of all foreign intelligence services active in its territory. For obvious security reasons, the State Security never communicates about the methods used in this context. I hope you understand that. Your sixth question falls within the competence of my colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. I think it is very important that Belgium can make respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms a real priority vis-à-vis third States. It cannot be accepted under any pretext that third States of any kind, whether Turkey or another State, should exert pressure and ultimately put the head of certain refugees or Belgian nationals at a price, as is the case here with an individual who is actually well-identified. I believe that, as politicians, we really cannot accept that another government can put a bonus of one million Turkish pounds at stake to deliver information aimed at neutralizing one of our nationals. I don't think we can accept it. I think it is important that the government can also call it loud and clear. That is why I will also ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u65	Minister, with the sad anniversary of the Corona outbreak last weekend, some figures on corona violations became known. More than 200,500 people have been caught in breaches of corona legislation since the beginning of the crisis. The majority of the infringements ended up with the correctional parquets, followed by the youth parquets and then the labour auditorates. Around 110,000 people or 62% have been offered a friendly settlement, of which about 54% would have been paid. In the other cases, subpoenas or alternative handlings were made. More than 20,500 people have been subpoenaed and almost 13,000 sentences have already been handed down. Minister, I think that is a good result. I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the courts have worked on this in such a short space of time and as a priority. On this occasion, last Saturday in the radio programme De Odend the editor-in-chief of De Tijd was very critical. I give some quotes: about one in four was classified by the parquet. This says something about the clash that has taken place and is still taking place between the State and the citizen." He further stated: "The legal framework is connected with hooks and eyes. It is particularly difficult for the police to interpret certain things." He also warned that this could have bad consequences in the long term if it turned out that the policy was not getting the legal framework in order. The impression is that it is easier to sanction than communicate or invest in putting the legal framework in order. In summary, it was clearly a plea for better legal support. What's your response to the numbers? Could you give me a little more explanation and explanation? In about 62% of cases a friendly settlement was proposed, in the other cases a subpoena or alternative treatment was made. Could you give us a more detailed explanation? More specifically, is the approach similar in the various arrondissements or are there large deviations between the different judicial arrondissements? What is your reaction to the very firm criticism of a leading editor? Do you share the criticism? Will you take more initiatives and pay more attention to a better legal framework? I have made an effort to review the draft pandemic law, and that will certainly not provide an answer. Finally, it is not always clear to the public and the police what is and what is not allowed, in which cases and in which cases action should not be taken. What initiatives have you taken since your arrival to improve communication on the measures to be followed by citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u66	Mr Minister, the context has already been outlined by Mr Dillen. First of all, I'd like to get your perspective on the numbers. I can't imagine you have any idea. An idea about this will certainly not harm the separation of powers. Secondly, it would be interesting to know whether there is a noticeable difference between the figures of infringements recorded in the first wave and those of the second wave. Have we learned lessons so that the rules in force both for the police and for the police became clearer as the pandemic progressed? Is the percentage of cases classified without a result smaller at the time than during the first months of the pandemic? Thirdly, are you also planning specific measures to ensure that the friendly solutions proposed are effectively paid for? Will any of the offender who does not pay for the friendly settlement also be prosecuted? Finally, is it your practice to clarify and improve the situation through the present or any other pandemic law? In the meantime, are you convinced of the added value of such pandemic law? You once said in the committee that it would certainly not be there for the current pandemic. Or do you stand by your approach to criminally sanctioning offences through ministerial decisions? That is a very special approach. A ministerial decision is almost equivalent to a law and we all know the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u67	Mrs Dillen, thank you for your appreciation of the people of justice. I appreciate that very much. In difficult circumstances, there are many judgments and cases to be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we can have this debate today is the result of transparent and clear communication on the figures. Few people know that, but that can happen, because the whole system of corona-pvs runs on Crossborder's system, the system that we also use for traffic fines in our country. There is a rather technical explanation for this; but it mainly means that we can indicate how many CVs have been drawn up so far by the correctional parquets, the auditorates and the youth parquets. This gives us an overall picture, which is available up to the minute, so to speak. If the whole of the Justice Department were to function that way, we would be far beyond that. I see Mrs Dillen nodding. That is exactly why we want to extend Crossborder to many other offences. As far as the number of cases closed without result is concerned, we note that there is a fairly stable trend throughout the year. I will give you the details, in particular the exact differences between the first and the second wave and the geographical differentiation, in writing. So you will be able to see the evolution clearly. I would like to comment on the paper's opinion paper, which Mrs Dillen referred to. I would also like to know what Parliament itself thinks of the reporter's statements. However, I give you my opinion. I think it is really wrong to speak of a clash between the citizen and the state. It is true that we are experiencing a serious health crisis, and it is the duty of the government to deal with this crisis and to ensure the maximum health of every citizen. The government does this by taking measures and having them enforced by the police and the justice system. Our police and the Justice Department are also doing a very good job in difficult circumstances. They do so by showing the necessary flexibility, using the immediate friendly settlement, the friendly settlement or subpoena to the police court in case of non-payment. I see in each of our parquets the seriousness with which the pvs are viewed and handled. No parquet in our country lets that happen, we take it very seriously. There is proportional enforcement, in both directions. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that, when there was talk of using drones and administrative searches, the Justice Department has done the tricks and carefully monitored the borders of a democratic rule of law. So that was Justice as guardian of the rule of law. I repeat, I don't see things as a clash. The fact that things are classified without consequence is not abnormal either. Each individual case must be dealt with by an individual magistrate. That is the essence of our trias politician. The same is true of Article 151 of our Constitution. There is also the question of communication. The decisions taken by the various governments and the Consultative Committee and subsequently translated into ministerial decisions are communicated in many ways. The government has, of course, also obviously learned to make measures clear and enforceable. For example, the choice for the cuddle contact concept was a good choice. The ministerial decisions are translated into concrete, clear, transparent guidelines for the Justice and Police Department, such as the so-called COL6/2020, which are communicated every time to police authorities and local authorities. Together with you, I note that the Public Prosecutor's Office is showing great transparency in this area. It's been different once. I have even seen that on the Internet, the President of the College of Attorneys General, Mr Delmulle, speaks literally and explains exactly what is being done. That is a huge step forward. However, in the area of transparency I recommend that you certainly read the very interesting interview with Bart Willocx, the President of the Court of First Instance in Antwerp in De Standaard today, and communication by Justice still work on the shelf. In particular, when there is a judgment, a judgment or a judgment, I personally do not always find it pleasurable that the Minister of Justice should explain the judgment or judgment. I think it would be better if a magistrate could do that, of course, quickly and accurately. After all, with social media the opinion of the public is asked and ventilated very quickly. Finally, I would like to comment on the comments on the pandemic law. Mrs De Wit, of course the preliminary draft has been tabled by the entire government, and so I too. I have, of course, also made my point in the discussion on this preliminary draft. The preliminary draft has now been submitted to Parliament. The hearings are running, you know that. The talks, too. It is indeed appropriate that we should use our legal instruments for the future. What the precise decisions will be, whether measures are taken by royal decision or by ministerial decision or otherwise, I will leave them to the wisdom of Parliament. I believe that a good debate is necessary and that decisions should be taken at a time when Parliament and the Minister consider that appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u68	Thank you for your reply, Minister. As for your thoughts on the editorial of the editor-in-chief of De Tijd, it did not appear in the newspaper, but on Radio 1. What do I think? I think it's an interesting discussion. I would like to deal with them, but we have a system of oral questions in the Chamber within a tight time frame. A real debate cannot be held in committee when it comes to questions. The questioner will have the floor, then the Minister and then again the questioner. In this respect, the system of the Flemish Parliament is much better, but that is another story. Minister, in the spring of 2020 you were not yet Minister of Justice, but I was involved in the discussion of the various ministerial decisions in the field of justice, following the corona crisis. At that time, our group warned a number of times about shortcomings in these ministerial decisions, including in the field of communication. Well, that's a good thing to say. As far as the pandemic law is concerned, the hearings are indeed ongoing. The debate should be held. I'm just trying to follow it along a little bit. The hearings have already given rise to some serious criticisms. There have been quite critical voices heard there. So there's still a lot of work to be done. Finally, you are right to say that the police and the judiciary have done a very good job as a result of the violations of the corona measures. I have not received an answer, I assume you will give it to me in writing to my question on the approach in the various judicial districts. Are there any big differences? I look forward to the numbers. I think it is very positive that I should be allowed to confine myself to the judicial arrondissement of Antwerp, the department of Antwerp. Those files are being dealt with strictly, which is a powerful signal of respect for the people who do comply with the rules and who are getting harder and harder to comply with the rules and who are tired of it. Despite the heavy workload during such corona sessions, each file is approached personally. So everyone is not being shaved along the same lines. When there are mitigating circumstances, there is a severe punishment, which is still fairly mild, but when there are no mitigating circumstances, such as repeated cases, one is really very strict. I personally consider this individual approach to be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm certainly looking forward to the numbers. I would like to return to a small year ago when it became clear that there was a need to maintain it. You weren't the Minister of Justice at the time. At that time, the Committee on Justice proposed that the offender who was caught by the police should be subpoenaed in the event of a dispute over the determination. We did not agree with that procedure. On the ground they were initially very concerned because they had to pay a fine through the current account system, cross-border, or tax return, while they had to go to court in the event of a dispute. On the ground, the workload that exists today was countered by the fact that if someone does not pay, justice itself must be subpoenaed, while there can still be a dispute. That has taken a great deal of effort, but I am very happy to see that it succeeds. Thematic meetings will be organised for this purpose. I am very pleased that this is the way it is done. I am very pleased that we made that choice last year, because imagine that it was left to every citizen to subpoena in every dispute. Then I believe that our rule of law would have gotten into trouble. What have we seen in recent months, Minister? We have seen that a ministerial decision includes infringements that are punishable by criminal law. In a ministerial decision! No legislation. A ministerial decision is not enough in itself, because a FAQ is also needed; I do not know how many versions we are; I have lost count; it has already been there dozens. In short, each time the ministerial decision was accompanied by a FAQ to explain what is actually in the ministerial decision. This is also accompanied by protocols, in which your fellow Minister for the Interior prohibits this and refers to infringements based on the FAQ. One can already ask questions about the use of a ministerial decision as a legal basis, but a FAQ as a legal basis, that goes a long way. I'm not just saying that. The police services on the ground were very often confronted with this and were very concerned about it, because so try to enforce the law. They got a rule and they got a very good COL from the parquet, that's right. They were given a ministerial decision. But don't think the police are going out with a 40-page FAQ that says what is understood by an infringement. A recent example of this was related to the ice carts. They weren't allowed anymore, so to speak, but that ban was only in the FAQ. This has been recognised in the latest ministerial decision and the problem has been resolved. You understand that's actually a difficult way of working. In fact, I think it is a good thing that the police and the judiciary have dealt with it correctly. They've done a good job. I would very much like to look at the figures and see if there is a difference between the first and the second wave. I particularly hope that we will learn lessons from this for the future. No matter how complex the crisis is, which I will not deny, and how many difficult situations there are to assess, how difficult it is to put the rules into a ministerial decision or into a FAQ, how difficult it must be for police to apply them on the ground! We need to learn from that in order to keep our rules clear and simple and to do it properly. A ministerial decision with a FAQ is not the right way. I would have expected you, as Minister of Justice, to have had a harder time with that. You accept it, and I still have a hard time with it, as you will be aware. Please, let us learn lessons for the future, so that we can deal with this in a good way. That will make it much easier for the police and for the Justice Department. Let us hope that it may no longer be necessary, that we will not be confronted with a pandemic, but today I am not so reassured. A good government armies itself against this, in the figuratively sense of the word, of course, and tries to deal with it in a good way, which so many governments and services have tried over the past year and for which I am very grateful to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u70	Madam President, Minister, I read an interview with you in Brussels this week. The scare struck me a little bit. You refer there to very heavy riots, both on New Year's Eve, as well as the demonstration on 13 January and the riots in Ixelle, attacked police and many wounded agents. As a solution, you propose a kind of youth cop, namely agents who do not immediately unsubscribe pvs, but who also look at solutions and engage in dialogue. That's not the answer, is it? You are constantly talking about a lick-on-piece policy, and you are right there. The chief of police of the Brussels-South police district also states this. We need to signal there. We also see in practice that young people only hear a lot of these youth gangs when they can commit these terrible facts and get rid of them for free and for nothing. That signal to talk a little to those young people is the worst signal you can imagine. Those cops are allowed to talk, but I think that's still through an invitation and a judge. Then they can go over there and explain, but not with cops in the street. If you really want to continue with this, how do you see it? Will there be a little talk with any of the offenders who misstep something for the first time or commit a traffic offence, with whom everything is resolved? Are these youth cops just coming to Brussels or everywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u71	Madam President, Mrs Bury, thank you for reading the interview on 11 March at Bruzz.be. You will also have seen that I have expressed my love for Brussels, which is very difficult for some politicians. Brussels is a beautiful, but sometimes chaotic city. You're talking about the riots of January 13th. I suspect you have seen that the investigation into the criminal rioters at that demonstration has produced results in the meantime. An investigating judge was requested for deliberate arson at night in an inhabited building, for rebellion in gang with weapons and prior consultation and for damage to buildings and vehicles. On 10 February 15 searches and 14 arrests were made. On Tuesday 23 and Thursday 25 February a second series of searches and arrests were made. Four suspects could still be apprehended. I quote the press release of the Brussels parquet on 26 February: "A total of 18 suspects were arrested by the police forces of the Brussels-North zone a month after the riots. The judicial investigation will continue to identify other perpetrators of the tumult and the destruction." I know that this kind of coverage is not in line with the perception you are trying to create, Mrs Bury, namely the perception of impunity, and that in Brussels everything can and can be done, under the watchful eye of a lame and passive police and justice. I got the idea from the youth cops of a Brussels chief of police, especially the Chief Constable of Montgomery. That's an excellent chief of police you should definitely get acquainted with. He's been working with what he calls campus cops for years. These are people who engage in dialogue with, among other things, the student population on its territory. It seems to be working very well. You obviously do not believe in dialogue and prevention is strange to you. All that matters to you is repression, repression and repression. However, in a rule of law, it is not enough, and you always forget to say that, to arrest and lock people up. In a rule of law, the individual guilt of suspects must be demonstrated. Research always takes time. I respect the people of the police and the magistrates. I'll confront you with a truth you'd rather not hear. Justice alone will not solve this problem of young people who, for who knows what reasons turn against society and its authorities. Justice has to do its job, and we do it. Witness the fact that we have effectively arrested suspects in the riots file in Brussels. But it takes more than that. Administrative authorities and police forces that manage such demonstrations efficiently, for example, and therefore prohibit safety, if necessary. In my city of Kortrijk we have not allowed many demonstrations, because we know that there are risks involved. That's a decision a local government has to make. Secondly, the fight against radicalisation has taught us that we need to involve many other actors and partners in tackling radicalisation. The dynamics that lead to radicalisation are often the same as those that lead young people to turn violently and unacceptablely against the police and government in general. We have learned from the fight against radicalisation that early detection is essential. This is done through the local integrated security cells, which do good work, and through the local task force. The sooner we get there, the better we can take corrective action and avoid worse. We must also develop such an approach for these young people. Mrs. Bury, that's the full story I've brought in the famous interview, and I'll always bring it up when it comes to crime. There's a cover-up of prevention and a cover-up of repression. The two will always go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u72	Thank you, Minister. Saying that only repression fits into our booth, that's a bridge too far. That's not true at all. The response is far too late. The juvenile judges say that the calf has already drowned if those young people come to them because they have already mistreated so much and they cannot actually take the necessary measures. Moreover, they also indicate that they do not have any idea of many of these administrative penalties. So these young people have already mistreated a great deal without being punished, which makes the situation too far out of control. I have four kids of my own. There is no reason to believe that punishment should never be given if there is unacceptable behaviour and only discussion is not working. That doesn't work at all. That should not be excessive punishment. That's not what I'm talking about. But just let people go and say: we have a little chat and then it gets solved, that's naive. That's a utopia. You're telling me to talk to Montgomery's chief of police. I can only tell you to listen to the Chief Constable of the Zone South. He told a whole different story in The Appointment. He says there should be punishment. It is mop-up with the crane open when criminal young people have to be released immediately. I do not know what is going on in Brussels. You bet I do. I love Brussels, too. However, the police chiefs contradict each other because one is talking about youth cops, while the other isn't about the smallest facts, and the other says that it can't go on like this, that the police simply don't have the strength anymore and that they don't find any new men. There is a clear error in communication and justice, but also in the internal affairs field, which must be kept to a minimum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u73	Minister, football, a party! That's what it is for many every time there's a big championship coming. Soon we will see the European Championship, where everyone hopes that the Belgians, the Red Devils, will produce a wonderful result. After that, however, some people wake up with a serious financial hangover, so the past teaches us. Such championships are an ideal opportunity for the big gaming companies to advertise massively and convince people to gamble on many of those games anyway. They attract both new gamblers and existing gamblers who are encouraged to do a gamble more than usual. We saw that at the World Championship three years ago. The figures are known, the Gaming Commission has produced a nice report on this. We saw that the stakes have increased enormously during that period, of course also due to the massive publicity that has been given. During the 2018 World Cup, an awareness campaign was launched to mainly reach young people and warn against the dangers of gambling. The Red Devils did not support the campaign, which is unfortunate. They have some kind of exemplary function and it would be very good if the Red Devils would sign up in such a campaign to point out the dangers of gambling. They are a kind of example for many young people. The Royal Belgian Football Association was also enthusiastic about the collaboration, but then again clashed with FIFA rules of the Code of Ethics which forbids campaigning against gambling. All very bizarre, because the Red Devils do commit themselves to the betting operators when they perform with their own football clubs. Apparently, there was also little willingness on the part of the public broadcasters to participate in the campaign. Once again, we face a great challenge. Firstly, what awareness campaigns are planned around the European Union? When will these be distributed? Through what media channels? Secondly, what other measures will you take to control gambling around the European Union? Which organisations will you work with? Thirdly, will you encourage important figures and organisations such as the Red Devils and the Jupiler Pro League, as well as the public broadcasters, to participate more in the awareness of gambling addiction within the framework of the European Championships, but also in general? If so, how will you do that? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u74	Mr Van Hecke, the Gaming Commission is currently preparing two awareness campaigns. For the effectiveness of such campaigns, it is important that their content is not released too early and that they are launched as soon as possible at the start of the European Championship. I can tell you that the Gaming Commission is working on an information and awareness campaign on the differences between legal and illegal online gambling and the particular risks associated with illegal gambling. That campaign will normally run from April to June 2021. The second campaign will run during the European Championship itself and has as a central message "play with moderation" and aims to lead the most vulnerable players to the relief. The website of the Gaming Commission and myself will mobilise everyone for that. In addition, in the run-up to Euro 2021, I will prepare the implementing decision of Article 62 of the Gaming Act. That implementing decision will also introduce the EPIS control in the betting offices, thus providing better protection for the most vulnerable players.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u75	Minister, it is a good thing that such a campaign is being launched and the Gaming Commission can play an important role in this. It's really gonna be necessary. Advertising will be immense and the campaign in preparation will therefore have to be robust. This campaign, which must discourage and point out the dangers, will have to fight against multinationals who will be throwing enormous resources at it. It will therefore have to be a strong campaign. Knowing your drive, I'm sure you'll take care of that. After all, that will really be necessary. You also announced that you will continue to work with and extend the EPIS list. As you know, we have tabled a legislative proposal to tighten things up. It is also about that list. If it can be extended, it is already a very good thing. If that's possible before the tournament starts, then that's a good step forward. So you can count on us for that campaign, and I wish you every success in the fight against the gambling multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u76	Madam President, Minister, in March 2020, an Amnesty International poll, conducted in collaboration with SOS Viol, revealed that nearly one in two Belgians has already been exposed to at least one form of sexual violence, with women and young people overrepresented. The survey also revealed that 53 per cent of rape cases were discontinued. A study carried out in 2019 at the request of the European Commission on the handling of rape cases by the Belgian courts highlighted the difficulties in identifying the perpetrators. Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue raised and, in particular, on the difficulties in identifying the perpetrators of rape? Can progress in this area be envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u77	Madam President, Mr Senesael, as stated in Amnesty International's report, the lack of evidence is one of the first reasons for filing this type of case without further action. Such evidence is not easy in many cases, especially when the complaint is filed several days, months or years later. In order to improve this situation, many avenues and tools are being put in place and continue to be developed. First and foremost, victims must be supported so that they can file complaints within time limits that allow for the effective removal of any traces left by the author. To that end, it should be recalled that sexual violence centres have been set up, from the current three to six this year and to ten before the end of this legislature. These are centres for victims of sexual violence, including children, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. They offer, under the same roof, medical and forensic care, psychological support and follow-up to these victims, the detection of injuries, the search for biological traces and the collection of necessary evidence in an optimal manner, according to a plan drawn up in stages. Specifically, Mr.Senesael, a project developed in Antwerp. Listen carefully! The Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office has launched a pilot project for a new approach in collaboration with the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (INCC). The project is called "Code 37", the code corresponding to the rape code for police and justice. The new investigation strategy includes a specific approach for different types of investigations, such as facts with an unknown perpetrator, cases with a suspect who challenges sexual contacts and those who only dispute consent. NCIC was involved in case management from the initial stage and advised magistrates throughout the proceedings. For example, rape research is now focusing more on DNA traces that are not sperm-related to identify an offender. NCIC may also contribute in the event of a dispute about sexual contact or consent, for example, for toxicological research or for traces of saliva on the body or clothing. The research strategy developed scientifically by the Institute, the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office and the Antwerp Court of First Instance in recent years to deal with offences has resulted in twice as many rape cases being resolved as before. This new research strategy focuses even more on the victim. The Antwerp approach will now be deployed in the rest of the country. Many tests have been carried out in this area, and more particularly in relation to the research of the authors. The ViCLAS (Violent Crime Linkage Analysis System) system, managed by the Police Moral Facts section, is a national expert database allowing the detection of potential links in a systematic and systematic manner between a new fact and the sexual and/or violent facts already captured in the database. In addition to conventional police information, this database contains a number of elements related to the motivation of the author and his behaviour, as well as data concerning the victim. The College of Attorneys General has, in Joint Circular COL 04/2020 on the search for potential links between acts with sexual and/or violent motivation, supervised the use of this database. Also worth mentioning are the directives already in place at the prosecutorial level, such as the Ministerial Directive on the Sexual Assault Set of 8 February 2017 and Circular COL 21/2013. A new directive on combating sexual violence will be drafted. In addition, the reform of the Penal Code was under discussion. In this context, sexual violence is being given great attention for an effective approach. A chapter on sexual crimes would be given priority so that it could still be incorporated into the current Criminal Code and enter into force more quickly. As already announced in my policy note, we want to focus on a specific approach in specific areas related to sexual crimes. This includes more effective DNA analysis, specialized police training, and more targeted measures for the collection and processing of data on sexual violence. Increased attention to the rehabilitation of the author, with a focus on his support and psychological follow-up in order to reduce the risk of recidivism, is also foreseen. Mr Senesael, you can see that there is a lot of work on the board. There are many plans as well as a vision with practical examples. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u78	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. My reply will be organized into three reflections. First, I am pleased to see your willingness to follow this issue with vigilance and conviction, and I thank you for that. Secondly, it is a fact that the increase in the specialized centres to reach ten units before the end of the legislature is a significant step forward, which I stress positively, and which is in line with your intentions as stated in the General Policy Note. Thirdly, the Antwerp experience that I did not know seems not only interesting but also relevant. It will allow, as you have explained, to respond appropriately, through an effective approach, to such sexual violence not only intolerable, but also unacceptable. I say it like you do. Yes, there is work to be done, but we are here to work and to meet the legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u79	Mr Minister, the outbreak of hatred and violence on 13 March in Liège is unacceptable. You have had the opportunity to speak on the subject as well as many others. Unfortunately, one can only see a repetition of this type of violence, like other cities such as Paris, Brussels and Antwerp, which have had similar urban troubles. Liégeois, as well as all citizens, traders and citizens of our country, must be preserved from this kind of act that resembles real urban guerrillas in which scenes of lawlessness take place. We must refuse to say that we are powerless in the face of such behaviour. Our citizens want a return to calm. I recall that these events occurred on a Saturday afternoon, at a time when families met in the city to shop, among other things. Therefore, Minister, following these recent unqualified events, I invite you to set up a national conference on urban violence, in collaboration with the Minister of the Interior and the Parliament, bringing together the actors from the fields concerned (police, magistrates, intelligence services, youth welfare services, mayors, etc.), in order to find effective and concrete solutions to prevent such acts from happening again. The idea is simple: to allow the expression of each other, the expressions of the realities experienced by each other to emerge from the simplistic patterns of saying "there is only one" and once the observations have been made, to bring about concrete solutions and to have a timetable for the implementation of the measures to be taken. We mean lack of means of expressing by the police, by the justice system and other actors such as youth support and even the municipalities that see their budgets swell for the police areas. In concrete terms, are you in favour of the idea of a national conference on urban violence? If so, how do you see his organization reminding you of our full availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u80	My colleague, your proposal is particularly interesting. The clashes that took place in Liège last weekend are unacceptable, we agree on this point. I also share your analysis when you say that the police and justice must do their utmost to identify, arrest and punish those responsible. Nevertheless, this phenomenon of riots and urban guerrillas should be closely addressed. We can indeed ask ourselves a number of questions. First, how is it possible that peaceful demonstrations can degenerate in this way? We see that social networks allow mass mobilization. In no time, people can be mobilized for the right cause, for example to search for a missing child, but also for much less respectable purposes, for example to sow disorder and destruction. Our security services must respond quickly on social networks, monitor them closely and send comments to local administrative authorities so that they can take the necessary measures to maintain public order and security. If necessary, they must be able to resort to the ultimate remedy: prohibit the intended manifestation. You're asking me where the authors come from. If we look more closely at the origin of those responsible for this type of riots, we find that they come not only from the city itself, but from all over the world. In this context, the decisive role of social networks is once again evident. We have already observed this type of phenomenon in Brussels: during riots, we were able to identify not only Brusselsers but also young people from municipalities around Brussels, and even further away. I would be very surprised if it were not the same in Liège. In other words, they are young people who knowingly seek a pretext to create trouble. This assumption is not to be rejected. Third question: who are the authors? Are sufficient efforts being made to analyse the phenomenon? They are mostly young people, adolescents aged 15 to 20 years. Do they have a history with the police and the justice system? What animates them? How is it that the police, in some cases, and even frequently, are knowingly targeted? How can we avoid this kind of action? What should be done to that end? Should we simply accept that such acts take place and simply hope that justice and the police can identify and prosecute those responsible each time, while police and justice are often the scapegoat if things get worse? This, not only in the eyes of the troublemakers who attack the police, but also in the eyes of the public, who later blamed the police and the judiciary for a lack of efficiency. It is encouraged in this way by populists or extremists who try to make their cabbages for various reasons. My colleague, the answer to all these questions can provide us with a better view of the phenomenon in order to adapt our policy in a targeted way. I think we can distinguish different levels of responsibility. Firstly, the responsibility of the mayors: to authorise, prohibit or adopt an intermediate position, to tolerate on the basis of accurate and up-to-date information. Secondly, the responsibility of the police: ensuring the proper management of demonstrations. This process begins upstream, via social media monitoring. Thirdly, the responsibility of justice: to identify suspects, apprehend them, prosecute them, punish them. In this context, let us not forget the problem of the accelerated procedure. Fourthly, we could perhaps conclude by referring to a broader responsibility, namely that of society as a whole and, in particular, that of the parents of minors. My colleague, the fight against radicalisation has taught us that many other actors and partners must be involved in the fight against radicalisation. The dynamics that lead to radicalization are likely to be the same as the dynamics that lead young people to behave violently and unacceptably against the police and in general towards authority. We have also learned from the fight against radicalization that early detection is essential. This early detection involves local integral security cells and local task forces. As soon as we can intervene, at best we can intervene to rectify the situation. In doing so, we can avoid the worst. This type of approach must also be able to be developed for this group of young people. Colleague, I intend to take up this challenge in collaboration with Minister Verlinden. On this basis, we will organize a task force riots in the coming weeks, obviously taking into account the reality of the corona. Thank you for your suggestion. So we're going to execute what you asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u81	Minister, thank you for your very detailed and comprehensive answer. You have set the broadest possible framework for this kind of phenomenon. I'm glad. The leads you have mentioned must be explored in detail. You mentioned a task force. Whether it takes this form or that of a national conference on urban violence, no matter what the name is. The goal is efficiency. As such, I note your willingness to achieve this last objective. As you have said, the citizen ends up turning against everyone: against the troublemakers, and that is normal; but also, and less so, against the police and the judiciary, considering that these two eminent bodies of our State are not fulfilling their missions. This is not the case, because they face many difficulties, particularly in terms of means. I am thinking of your reminder of the chain that precedes the problems in Liège, but also in other cities. At the end of this work, during which the various actors will talk to each other, it would be wise to put the concrete solutions on the table. In the chain of responsibility, you mentioned the mayor. We live in a country of freedom. Therefore, the mayors should not dare to organize a public demonstration in their territory for fear of this kind of overflow. Similarly, you recalled the need for social networks to keep their usefulness. They mobilize a lot of energy, but it can sometimes prove to be negative. I have no doubt that you will be at the rendezvous of this vital expectation of our fellow citizens. As I told you, you can count on our full cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u82	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u83	Thank you for your interesting question, which is very pertinent in the aftermath of our vote in plenary last week. The consultations have indeed taken place. Many topics have been addressed in order to improve the general functioning of the entrepreneurial courts. This will allow them to respond to the upcoming wave of insolvency proceedings including the use of videoconferencing in business cases, which was called for, and the possibility to proceed to centralisation by adapting Article 186, § 1, of the Civil Code which governs the case-law of the divisional rules. Following that request, we are preparing an amendment to the provision. Furthermore, at the request of the Presidents, we are considering the possibility of providing for more substitute judges before the company court, taking into account the limit of 12% of all magistrates in the resort and the judgment of the Constitutional Court that the third access route should and should remain an exception. Finally, in order to improve the status of judges in business cases, we have already taken the decision to immediately involve them in the roll-out of the Office 365 package, so that they can have an e-mail address that can be easily consulted, and a user-friendly application to work together and communicate with the company judges. As far as the additional financial effort is concerned, there will be additional judges, additional clerks and additional assistants and referenda for the entrepreneurial courts and labour courts from this year on. Those referenda can assist magistrates in preparing files, conducting searches and making a draft sentence. In addition, these lawyers can build up the necessary professional skills, after which they may be able to take the step to magistrate. As recruitment can only take place after the budget is approved, 3/12 of the planned budget will be reserved for this year. Of course, that process will come at cruising speed in 2022. The debates on budgetary control are in full swing in the nuclear cabinet. They will be finalized in the near future and certainly for Easter recess. That is why I cannot yet give precise figures; in any case, it means a significant strengthening of the company courts. The prosecution of fraudulent bankruptcies is the responsibility of the prosecutors and the courts. Business courts do not intervene in this. Consequently, this was not discussed with them either. However, within the framework of the interdepartmental credit, we also provide for a strengthening of the magistrates and staff responsible for the prosecution of economic and financial fraud. Are there any additional plans to manage the inflow of files with the help of data analysis? There is indeed a business intelligence tool for bankruptcies, which provides up-to-date figures of bankruptcies and restitution procedures. We are talking to the FPS Economy and the Crossroads Bank Enterprise to further refine these figures. The tool allows us to monitor the statistics relating to insolvency proceedings on a weekly basis. In RegSol, the insolvency register, additional dashboards have also been developed, allowing chiefs of police and individual magistrates to produce statistics and to make adjustments to the workload, if necessary. We continue to support and expand these tools so that Justice can work more data-driven. KNICLI, which stands for flashing lights-clignotants, is the business intelligence tool that allows the enterprise courts with a dashboard to visualise the flashing lights, i.e. all relevant information about payment difficulties, including the attachment messages and backseats, in a user-friendly way. A draft royal decree was finalized. We are now awaiting the opinion of the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic415x.u84	Minister, a very strict follow-up to what is happening in practice will indeed be important to check whether the situation remains under control. Nor should we waste any time recruiting extra people, because that seems to me to be really necessary.
