ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u1	Minister, you will be pleased that there is so much attention to cycling. I'd like to start with a short anecdote. When I took the train to Vilvoorde in September and saw two young people with a bicycle in the car, I asked them where they were travelling. It turned out to be two Brusselsers, on their way to Limburg. They gratefully made use of the tickets with which they could use their bike from 1 July to 31 December 2020 for free throughout Belgium. As of 1 January 2021, taking a bike on the train is unfortunately no longer free. A folding bike can still be brought for free, but for other bikes and bicycle carts a supplement of 4 euros has to be paid. The bicycle supplement is a fixed amount, while the price of train tickets depends on the distance travelled. For short train journeys, for example between Ronse and Oudenaarde, you pay more for the bicycle supplement than for the train ticket. In that case, can you still speak of a supplement? The number of reserved places for bicycles on the train is limited. As a traveller, access to the train may be refused if all places for bicycles have already been occupied, despite the purchase of a valid ticket with supplement. How many bicycle supplements has SNCB sold in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020? How many travellers made use of the free SNCB bicycle supplement by 2020? How do you and SNCB evaluate over the past six months, during which train passengers could still take their bike on the train without paying a supplement? Was that a positive experience? If so, will you then direct SNCB to abolish the bicycle supplement? Folding bikes can still be transported for free, but ordinary bikes and children's bikes are not. What's with the difference and the discrimination? Why does SNCB use a fixed amount of EUR 4 for transporting a bicycle, even over short distances? Surely the bike supplement cannot be more expensive than the train journey alone? There are still railway stations where it is forbidden to load bicycles, including the Brussels-Central station. Does SNCB intend to do something about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I believe that train and bike are a golden combination for comfortable and environmentally friendly travel, and it is also healthy. I am glad that in our country there are more and more bikes available to train passengers for their pre- or post-movement. I see that vice-presidents of this government are also using it, congratulations, go ahead with it or electric steps, but there are also people who would like to take their bikes on the train. Between July 1st and December 31st the bike could be taken on the train for free, which I thought was a good measure. I think that this has indeed led some people to think and that they realise that the combination of train and bike allows them to visit some beautiful places in the country or that it can even be good for their functional travels. In the meantime, this measure no longer exists, and I have a number of questions for you, the answer of which hopefully allows us to make an evaluation, to see whether this measure has been very successful and to what extent it is necessary to make it free again or not, so that people are encouraged to combine bike with train. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How many people have taken advantage of this measure? How many bicycle bills are normally sold per year? Do you have an overview of this for the past five years? Have there been any capacity problems on the train? Should travelers be refused on certain lines by bike? How many available cycling spots does SNCB have on its current train park? How many will be added when the new trains are delivered? Will there be an extension of the measure to take the bike on the train for free?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u3	Mr Van den Bergh, Mrs Verhaert and Mr Parent have also put a question on this, but none of them are present in the Chamber. I have also put a question to you myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u4	Mr Minister, it is true that the two previous speakers indicated that the decision taken by the then super-core to take the bike on the train free of charge until the end of 2020 was a very nice decision, in my view too, to make the combination of train bikes even more attractive. Since the end of 2020 I do get some emails and some messages on Twitter from people who ask about this measure. However, it is very important that we evaluate this measure. We must see whether it has been a good measure and whether the measure is the best way to push the combination of bike trains or whether there are other things we can do. I asked you the question in writing, but I did not really receive an answer. That is why I am joining the topical and urgent debate today. How did the sales of bicycle tickets evolve over the past year? How do you evaluate the measure to temporarily make the bicycle supplements free? What is your position on the cost of bicycle supplements? How can we best stimulate the combination of bike trains? Perhaps we can also take other measures. Finally, I have a suggestion, which is also a question of your opinion on the matter. Are you in favour of introducing a more variable fare per distance and a cheaper fare for off-peak bicycles? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions in an interesting topical debate on a very important subject. The combination of bike and train is a nice story and is very useful. In my capacity as Minister for Mobility, I strongly believe in the combination of train and bicycle. It is my intention to make the train the backbone of mobility. You know that the bike is an ideal addition to the train, namely for the road to and from the station. In my discussions with SNCB, SNCB confirmed to me that it is certainly aware that there is scope for improvement in the combination of bicycle and train. That is why I urged SNCB to update its cycling and train strategy as soon as possible. In the meantime, I am pleased to say that the necessary resources have been made available within the company. Specific recruitments were even made. So that's good news. The purpose of the update is to look at improvements in the combination of train and bike, as well as and even especially in the area of the first and last mile, to express it in good Dutch. Of course our trains need to be better equipped for the transport of bicycles, but it is not the intention to make bicycles on the train the standard formula. After all, we saw the limitation of this formula last year during the period when the bicycle supplement was free of charge. Specifically now about the questions about the bicycle supplement and the transport of bicycles on the train. From July to December 2020, at the initiative of Kern +10, bicycle supplements were made free. This was a temporary action and it was initially presented as such. It was a success. During this period, 335,000 bicycle tickets were issued. This number has far exceeded expectations. By comparison, SNCB sold 184 000 and 211,000 bike tickets respectively over the years 2018 and 2019. In six months, the figures for the previous two years were more than doubled. As Minister of Mobility, I am very pleased that so many people have taken advantage of this offer and considered intra-Belgian tourism by taking their bikes. Many of them will certainly have used this combination train + bike for the first time. That was the objective of the measure. However, this success has not always been compatible with available space and train equipment. This has sometimes created problems when boarding and disembarking. On rare occasions, people have been prevented from travelling because of a lack of space. SNCB was even forced to completely prohibit the carriage of bicycles in the train on certain lines for lack of space. In the future, we must prevent such a situation from reoccurring because it undermines the safety and punctuality of our trains. It also creates expectations that cannot be met. The great success of the action also shows that there is a strong demand for the combination train + bike and I will therefore examine with the SNCB how we can give it a more important place in the new strategy. However, I wonder if providing as many places as possible for cycling on the train is the right starting point. I don't think so. As far as I'm concerned, there is also a great need for spacious, comfortable and safe bicycle storage facilities at the station and for ample availability of bikes. When passengers can safely park their bikes at the station, and they are sure that they can use a high-quality and cheap bike on arrival, the need to take the bike on the train falls away. This also creates more space on the train, making more space available for people who really need their own bike. I think that's the best solution for everyone. With regard to the distinction between ordinary bicycles and folded bicycles, I think it is logical for SNCB to adopt a different approach between these types of bicycles. Because a folding bike is smaller and therefore takes less place, it can easily ride on the train. That is why I also agree with the distinction made by SNCB, provided that there are still opportunities to bring ordinary bicycles. I'm glad to say there's a perspective. In the future, the carriages of type M7 will facilitate the carriage of ordinary bicycles. After all, that train model has multifunctional carriages, making more space available for bicycles. With regard to the cost price of the bicycle supplement, I am also of the opinion that a service such as a train trip has its value and can and must cost something. With SNCB, we will examine the areas in which we should invest more to improve the combination of train and bike. Any investment costs money. Nothing's free. SNCB actually collects a charge of €4 for the transport of a bicycle. It's a decent price. The average distance travelled with the bike supplement was about 60 kilometres in 2019 and 2020. Given this distance, the amount of 4 euros is really reasonable for the vast majority of users. Moreover, this price is in line with or even lower than that of other operators in neighbouring countries. As I asked, SNCB also assured me that the price will not rise, at least in 2021. I will discuss with SNCB what is the margin of manoeuvre for a possible distinction between peak and off-peak hours and also for the distance travelled with his bike on the train. If it is possible to make the train + bike ticket cheaper outside peak hours, this could encourage better distribution of traffic flows and avoid this train overload phenomenon. This would reduce the risk of inconvenience, which would benefit everyone. A question was asked about the stations in Brussels. It is true that there are indeed three train stations where it is explicitly forbidden to take the bike on the train, namely Brussels-Central, Brussels-Congres and Brussels-Capellekerk. These stations are located on the saturated North-South link, the busiest train connection in the country. The smallest incident or the least delay has an impact on a very large number of trains. I think it is a small effort for a cyclist to continue cycling to the station Brussels-North or Brussels-South and to get on the train there by bicycle. After a thorough evaluation of this successful action that allowed the bike to be carried on the train for free, I note that this action has shown us the need to combine the bike and the train. If we really want to make the train the backbone of mobility, we must make it easier to combine the train and the bike in the future, so that people can get to their destination easily when they get off the train. That's why I want to boost the combination of bike-trains based on the lessons we have learned from the successful action where one could take the bike for free on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u6	Minister, I am pleased that you have assessed the situation, that additional staff will be added and that you promise that SNCB will provide additional resources. I regret, however, that short distances have to be paid as much as longer distances. I therefore believe that this can make a difference, especially for young people, whether or not they will use the system. By the way, did you know that the Youth Association for Nature and the Environment (JNM) started a petition and made three demands, namely that the taking of the bike would remain free, that the trains would have more space for bicycles and that access would be improved. I therefore hope that further work will be done on making bicycles more accessible, in the sense that it will be cheaper. The PVDA prefers it to be free, because 8 euros for a return trip is a lot of money for students. We therefore hope that you will still respond to the JNM's question in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the action was a spectacular success when we look at the figures. It has given a huge boost to taking the bike on the train. I must say that I also hear your statement that we need to strike a balance between ensuring sufficient seats and sufficient space for bicycles. It can't be the intention that the capacity to transport people eventually becomes more limited because we're going to bring more bikes. In this sense, it is a good thing that there are additional train sets with more space for cyclists, but the priority must of course be with the ordinary traveller who needs a normal seat. Moreover, I believe that bikes can be a good solution for the vast majority of people. It is then known that when you take the train, you can use a solid bike at the station, for little money, to make the journey before or after. I understand that taking the bike on the train will continue to pay, but that you will have it examined whether it is possible to lower the price during off-peak hours than during peak hours. I think that's an interesting slope. We look forward to seeing what this research will deliver.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u8	Minister, the figures show the enormous power of a smooth combination of train and bicycle. I'm glad. I am glad that as ecologists during the super core we insisted on taking the bike for free on the train. I also think it is a good thing that you dare to examine whether the bicycle supplement is what makes the combination more attractive. As I understand it, there have been recruitments from people who are going to see how it can be even more bicycle friendly. I believe that other thresholds, such as the accessibility of stations, should also be removed. We will certainly discuss this in the forthcoming hearings when it comes to accessible trains and accessible stations. I am very happy to hear that you want to put your shoulders on that, just like the SNCB. Together with you I look forward to the way we can make the immense power of the combination between bike and train even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u9	Mr Arens has indicated that he will not be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u10	Minister, the government agreement opens the door to the privatisation of passenger transport by rail. According to the coalition agreement, a pilot project will be set up in a transport region in which an operator can be identified by tender. The Province of Limburg could issue a tender which would require SNCB to compete with other operators for passenger transport. In this context, the company Arriva was mentioned. The winner would then be given exclusivity for the operation of the regional lines concerned. Too often we look at private companies, whether from abroad or not, as challengers, but there may also be other hijackers on the coast, namely the regional transport companies De Lijn, TEC and STIB. Minister, what is the state of play on the pilot project? Have any steps been taken in this direction? Has a region already been chosen for the pilot project? Are the social partners involved in every step in this direction? Have private companies from home or abroad already spontaneously reported to you or SNCB for the pilot project? Will the regional transport companies possibly subscribe to the pilot project? Do you think that's desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u11	Mrs Verhaert is not here. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u12	Madam President, since the first question was put by Mr Arens, my answer was largely in French. I apologize for this. First of all, I would like to point out that there are two levels in the liberalisation of rail transport. On the one hand, the open access set out in Directive 2012/34/EU which allows any railway undertaking to request capacity from the railway infrastructure manager in order to provide a transport service on a commercial basis, i.e. without subsidies from the public authorities. On the other hand, the award of public service contracts is based in principle on a competitive procedure which may also, subject to compliance with the conditions laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007, be awarded directly. It is, as you know, this last option that the Vivaldi government has chosen. In this regard, the government agreement and my policy note set out the principle that this public passenger inland rail service mission will be assigned directly to SNCB for a period of ten years. The government agreement also provides for this: "In parallel, in consultation with the regional authorities in Flanders and Wallonia, a pilot project can be implemented in a mobility pool, where only one operator for the main network and for the secondary network in connection with the application can be designated by tender. Once all the modalities of these projects have been defined, the scope of the territory to which the direct allocation applies will be adjusted." The identification of good and bad practice abroad with regard to opening up to competition and a situation test will be necessary and useful in preparing these pilot projects. This should enable different stakeholders to identify both the limitations and the benefits of such a procedure. Attention should also be paid to the conditions to be met so that passengers can benefit from them. Each pilot project must be well thought out in order to avoid further fragmentation of the provision of public transport. As a result, the lines to be piloted have not yet been identified since a pre-study phase must be conducted in accordance with the Government Agreement. In this context, close cooperation with the Regions will be essential. As you know, I am constantly in dialogue with my fellow regional mobility ministers, with whom I still had an excellent meeting last night. Therefore, no invitation to tender can yet be launched at this stage, since a study and prior consultation phase is required for the launch of this invitation to tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u13	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the explanations and for the state of play. A well-known Flemish song is called Hope, but when I hear what's going to happen here, there's not much hope from that. There will be a pilot project and a study of practices abroad. The ambitions of preparing for liberalisation do not go so far. A lot of work needs to be done. The deadline of 2033, ten years delay by your government, ten years before preparation seems very long, but when we see what that means in practice, I think we have little time to waste. As you know, the previous major railway reform, consisting only of the division of SNCB and Infrabel, took five years in total. If we are in favour of the biggest rail reform in more than 100 years, we will indeed have no time to waste in preparing and I hope that we will be able to go faster and do more during this four-year period than just carry out a study of practices abroad and launch a modest pilot project in the two largest regions of this country. This is a little disappointing, but every step we take is one in the right direction and I will live on hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u14	Madam President, Minister, you know PVDA's position on liberalisation. I have said several times that we must continue to work on SNCB and Infrabel. Contrary to the previous speaker, we are therefore pleased that this period has been extended by ten years. We think continuity is important, and I think you have a lot of other cats to fling now. The best way to organise more and better public transport is via SNCB and Infrabel. We do not need private projects for this. You say you'll look abroad. I have said several times that the examples from abroad certainly do not show the right path towards well-developed public transport. We are not in favour of further liberalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u15	The President: Mr Arens's 55011578C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u16	Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that it is impossible to list all maintenance tasks and all costs for each station. It goes without saying that there is a big difference in the daily maintenance of a small stop in relation to a large international station such as the Antwerp station. SNCB organises itself to give the right maintenance to each station and stop point. Large works or renovations to stations are fast important investments. SNCB's current investment plan runs until the end of 2021. SNCB is currently working with Infrabel on the proposals for the next plan. Priorities shall be determined on the basis of the state of installations, the potential of a station and opportunities in the light of railway renewal works or other works in the station environment. The resources made available are, of course, taken into account. SNCB informs me that it is therefore not yet in a position to communicate detailed plans or provide a list of projects. In addition, there are the projects of the strategic multiannual programme 2018-2031. In principle, that list of projects remains unchanged. However, planning is currently under review in view of the current sanitary crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I find it a little disconcerting. It appears that SNCB has no knowledge of its own fixed costs to its station infrastructure. It shouldn't be. SNCB is unable, if I may paraphrase you, to provide the full list of maintenance costs in its stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u18	I didn't say that. You ask me about the cost of maintaining all stations in Belgium. It is impossible to give an oral answer to that. This does not mean that SNCB would have no knowledge of the cost of maintaining all stations and stops.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u19	It is therefore not possible to obtain this information in the context of an oral question, but can I ask them in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u20	We're trying to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u21	Mr Minister, trying will not be enough, because this is about financial transparency for SNCB, one of our largest public companies. We learned from the audit of the renovation project of Gent-Sint-Pieters that there are sometimes problems with cost control, to express it diplomatically. I hope, therefore, that there is an opportunity to learn about the cost structure of the stations in our country. That seems obvious to me. So I will ask you a written question and I look forward to that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u22	Madam President, Minister, more than 50% of all accidents at work involving train escorts are caused by aggression by passengers. Such a high percentage is also to be established in the case of shopkeepers, which account for almost 50% of the number of accidents at work and security agents, such as the staff of Securail. These are worrying figures. It goes without saying that these acts of aggression are accompanied not only by physical, but also by mental and financial damage. Train escorts, station chiefs and counter operators form the first line to the passengers. That is why we must, of course, be able to guarantee that these people can perform their jobs safely. Of course, the security services of Securail cannot be everywhere at once, hence my next questions. Are SNCB staff offered any form of training, training or training for dealing with aggression, both orally and physically? Does SNCB provide self-defense courses for its staff? What budgets are being made available to improve the safety of railway staff? What prevention campaigns or other tools for prevention are you planning together with SNCB in the fight against violence against SNCB staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u23	Thank you for your interesting question, Mr Roggeman. On the basis of the information provided by SNCB, I believe that SNCB is strongly committed to the training of its staff. In my opinion, that is a correct investment. All new staff who are in contact with customers will receive 10 days of customer care training. Communication techniques are widely covered. The law of 27 April 2018 on railway police provides for a mandatory course on conflict management, including conflict management with minors, for all determining officers. These are the staff of Securail, the train escorts and the platform staff. Every year the necessary training courses are organized. For train escorts, two days of dealing with aggression are provided for the basic training. In addition, there is an additional training "to deal with difficult situations," in which the theory of conflict handling is combined with role-playing. As I explained at the beginning of my reply, the Securail agents receive three days of training in avoidance and containment techniques and in the use of handcuffs and sprays in the framework of their training. In addition, they are legally obliged to follow one day's training every five years. With regard to the budget allocated to Securail's staff costs for the last five years, I will give you a written reply. It was between 32 million euros in 2015 and 40 million euros in 2019. StopAggressionNMBS was first launched at the end of 2018. The aim of this campaign is to make it clear that SNCB does not tolerate any aggression and to make passengers aware of their behaviour towards the staff. The campaign is repeated in a light version depending on current events and when SNCB considers it necessary to raise this issue again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is a positive thing that training should focus on the safety of staff. Of course prevention is one thing, enforcement is another. However, we must continue to pay attention to the protection of our staff at SNCB, through investments in security personnel and enforcement. I look forward to the figures you mentioned, which you will give me. In practice, we see that the integrity of all security services is under pressure. Violence against the police is increasing, and in Brussels there is even violence against firefighters and even ambulances. As striking as it may be, the train crew is unfortunately not getting away from that. I therefore think it is important to continue the efforts and to conclude briefly with regard to enforcement with your colleague, the Minister for the Interior, on the strengthening of Securail and the railway police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Parent's 55011609C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u26	Mr Minister, in December 2020 the new SNCB transport plan for the period 2020-2023 was introduced. It is a pity that the new station in Haasrode was not part of the new transport plan at that time. I strongly insisted on this in the previous legislature with your predecessor, because a station in Haasrode is good for the companies and the university there. Last year, SNCB signed a new agreement to address traffic problems in and around the Haasrode industrial park. It said that a train stop in Haasrode was an absolute top priority. SNCB would commit itself, together with its partners, to setting objective criteria for the station, inter alia, from Leuven. To this end, the 2018 feasibility study would be evaluated and a new study would be decided. Mr Minister, I would like to call for progress on this dossier. We have been working for almost decades to get a station here.Of course, a thorough investigation is needed, but it would be a good thing if a new station were to be included in the transport plan from 2023. I have already referred to the 10,000 employees and 3,500 students who pass there every day. Because of COVID-19 it is now less, but in normal times it has to do with fileleed. Minister, what is your view on a station in Haasrode? Are we dealing with the so-called objective criteria for opening this station anyway? Is a new feasibility study necessary or is the previous study still relevant? When does SNCB plan to open a station in Haasrode if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u27	Mr Minister, my colleague has already introduced the problem. I'll go to my questions. What about the file on a possible station or stop in Haasrode? SNCB would participate in discussions on the traffic problems surrounding the business site. What's the progress on the investigation? Has there been an investigation at the companies and schools nearby about the need for a local train stop? Sustainable mobility and rail infrastructure appear to be one of the five main pillars on which the recovery plan is strongly deployed after the corona crisis. Europe comes up with EUR 5.9 billion to promote our country's recovery. It seems that an important part of that money would go to sustainable mobility projects. Could the European funds from the relay plan possibly be used for the further study of a train stop in Haasrode?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u28	Mr Minister, it is true that there are a lot of students involved. Three thousand students each day make the move to the business site in Haasrode near Leuven. Apparently, over 90% still do that with the car for the time being. However, the site is crossed by a railway. Not only does the train have enormous potential, it is also an opportunity to alleviate the mobility impact on that business site. As the previous speakers have said, there have been many stakeholders asking parties for a long time and SNCB has indeed examined a letter of intent in 2019. Are you personally in favour of opening a station in Haasrode? What are the parameters for SNCB on the basis of which it is decided whether the opening of a station is appropriate? Will SNCB carry out a new study or will the 2016 study be continued? If so, what is the timing for that? When should there be a decision at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as announced at the Roadshow in December, SNCB has committed itself to examining the possibility of updating a station in Haasrode under the Transport Plan 2023-2026. According to this agreement, this update will be launched during the first quarter of this year. Contacts were identified within SNCB which will maintain contacts with the various stakeholders in this dossier. In this context, the city of Leuven, the Leuven transport region, the Haasrode business park, the Regionet Leuven project, the municipality of Bierbeek and Interleuven were contacted to collect the various existing studies and thus to arrive at a comprehensive, updated description of the case. This description will then be used as input for the opportunity study. I personally hope that this project can be successful and that by 2024 new stations can be opened with real potential. However, that takes some time and resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your positive answer. In Leuven, we get tired of studying. The provision of feasibility study on feasibility study has been under way for a long time. People like that, but sometimes we have to be able to lay our eggs after a study. The time is right to lay that egg. You will do many people a favor, because they will see their mobility stress decrease in the Leuven region. This applies both to workers and to people who have to travel occasionally by car or students who are able to take the train in bad weather in order to get on the ground. So it's a good thing you're putting things first by 2024. We are eagerly looking forward to it as well as to the study that will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u31	Mr Minister, it does look good. Let us hope that the trend will continue. What I have not received an answer to is whether or not the European funds from the relay plan could be used for this purpose and also whether or not you can work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u32	Minister, the train still has a lot of growth potential, but you yourself are incredibly convinced of that, as you emphasised in your policy paper. If we want to convince people to leave their car standing, we will indeed do so by strengthening the offer. The file in question is one of the cases that can provide that enhanced offer. I therefore hope, together with the previous speakers, that steps can be taken forward in the dossier. It would be a good initiative for the region there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u33	Mr Torbars is not present for his question No. 55011687C which therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u34	Mr. Secretary, we were just talking about the bikes. You are in favour of cycling and bike parking at the station, I have some questions in that connection. At about ten locations the stables of bicycles are currently paying, which still gives about 2500 paid stables. This figure will increase significantly, as SNCB has conceived the plan to apply the fee-paying parking of bicycles at the Antwerp-Central station. I find it striking that SNCB's rates for parking cars vary from station to station. No one knows how these tariffs are set. For the stable of bicycles this is different and the same rate is always applied. Persons with a train subscription pay 75 euros and people without a subscription pay 125 euros for an annual subscription to a guarded bicycle parking. The PVDA is not in favour of paying for bicycle stalls because we think that this is a deterrent factor and that everyone should have the right to stable their bike safely. When will paying parking for cyclists be introduced in Antwerp? How do you feel about paying for bicycles at the SNCB stations? How many fee-paying bicycle parkings will SNCB want to introduce in the coming years? Why are they putting in the paying parking? Are the local authorities asking parties? What interests are at play here? How does SNCB determine the rates for paying bicycle and car parking? What method is behind this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u35	This is an interesting question, Mrs Vindevoghel, which gives me the opportunity to clarify SNCB's strategy on bicycle parking. It is my ambition as Minister of Mobility to encourage alternatives to the car wherever possible. The combination of train and bike, as I said earlier, is a promising formula that I want to develop further. However, in order to promote the use of the bike, it is necessary to offer opportunities to store the bike safely. As more and more people use the bike for their daily travels, I believe that we should not only increase the supply of bicycle storage but also diversify it, in order to meet the different needs. A distinction should be made between secure and unprotected bicycle storage facilities. The installation of good bike racks, with the possibility to fasten the bike frame, can provide an adequate response for cyclists who want to store their bike spontaneously and for a short period of time, as they are easily accessible. For long-term parking, on the other hand, and especially for higher-value bicycles, such as electric bicycles, I would like to offer people who want to offer high-quality bicycle storage facilities equipped with access control. As this is often a major investment, this second option entails costs. With regard to SNCB's policy in this area, and in particular the Antwerp-Central station, SNCB's response is now followed. For years there has been a paying parking zone at the station Antwerpen-Central. SNCB is preparing a new parking area for bicycles to be put into service by June 2021. In general, bicycle parking is free. Customer surveys by SNCB show that it is one of the priorities to have a bicycle parking with access control. The paying zones are those with access control, which offer additional comfort. The management of the parkings is also important to reduce the number of race bikes, which sometimes account for up to 30% of the occupancy of a car park. The management of the paying bicycle parkings was ensured by the bicycle points in the stations. Each of those bicycle points managed the parkings at its sole discretion according to the capacity, some with a key, others with a badge, and all without any direct link to the SNCB customer and a train product. These different forms of management sometimes led to waiting lists for SNCB customers, while non-customers had a paying bicycle storage. SNCB has decided to standardise access control and tariffs and to use the MOBIB card as an access card for all its parkings. This also enables customers to buy a bicycle ticket via the counters and the vending machines, which was not the case before. The priority is to adapt the access control of already paying bicycle storage facilities. The plan is to equip up to eight bicycle sheds per year. The rates must cover the costs of the exhibition. The profit of the car parks makes it possible to finance part of the operating costs of the bicycle sheds and the SNCB contribution to the bicycle points. So the car drivers actually pay for the cyclists. I'm glad to hear that. As for car parking, there is a rate for SNCB subscribers and a rate for non-subscribers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u36	Minister, I think we should be careful not to create two different situations. People with little resources will not be able to afford a paying place, while people with more resources can pay for a secure bicycle storage. I think everyone should have the right to stable their bike safely. As far as I am concerned, this is also part of the use of the bike. I do not think it is possible for someone with less resources to be satisfied with an unprotected bicycle shed. However, I am pleased that the system is being unified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u37	Madam President, Minister, the future of Virton Station is more than uncertain. The last two sub-chiefs of the station will retire at the beginning of 2021 without any guarantee of renewal of these posts. This non-renewal of these key stations in a station would be the first step towards a clean and simple closure of Virton's satellite depot (the Arlon antenna) and, later, the total closure of Virton's station to become, like many rural stations, a mere stop point. Minister, this would be a real tragedy for some 30 other railway workers in Virton who are also worried about their jobs. A closure of Virton station would be a mistake for at least three reasons. First, about 30 employees posted to Virton will be harmed by this return to Arlon's depot. Most of them requested their transfer to Virton's depot because this workplace is closer to their home. Secondly, this building is exceptional from an architectural point of view - it is indisputable - with in particular a magnificent recently restored meadow. However, in the absence of human dynamics by SNCB professionals, this sumptuous Saint-Mardoise station will only be an empty and isolated building from the city centre and will be at the mercy of degradation. Thirdly, the quality of a public service in a rural area is characterized above all by service and contact with citizens. At a time when the digital divide is growing even more with the elderly, we cannot let our Virtonese station turn into a rudimentary preau with automata. Minister, I hope you will be able to remove these fears. Are the jobs of the two sub-chiefs at Virton Station guaranteed to be renewed? If they are not renewed, can you explain how the window service (so important in rural areas) can be provided? In view of the above arguments, can you assure us that the closure of Virton station is not on the agenda of the SNCB, for at least the next three years, and that the jobs of the other Virtonian railway stations will be maintained unconditionally?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u38	Madam President, I propose that Mrs Hanus ask her other two questions before answering. I could reassure all readers of L'Avenir de Luxembourg at once by telling them that it is in no way in the intention of the Minister for Mobility to reduce the railway possibilities in the province, quite the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u39	Madam Chair, Minister, I will therefore continue my intervention by addressing the other two points that relate to different issues, since my first question was about the staff at Virton Station and the maintenance of Virton Station, while my other two questions are about the reopening of stop points. Minister, like many at the time, the Meix-devant-Virton stop, located on line 165 Athus-Libramont between the current Virton stations and the Florenville stop, closed in June 1984. While stopping points are once again open throughout Belgium, the Commune of Meix-devant-Virton also wishes to relaunch the file of a stop point in its territory. In September 2004, well before this enthusiasm for the climate and for a greener mobility, the Meix-devant-Virton Communal Council unanimously decided to ask SNCB to take all the steps to obtain the reopening of the said stop point, even by offering it possible financial aid. At the time, SNCB's response was negative. More recently, in 2014, the ASBL probably well known to your services "Friends of Rail Halanzy" organized a survey of the entire population against the return of a stop point. The results show that 75% of those surveyed are in favour. Meix-devant-Virton is also close to the French border where many Belgians are domiciled while working in the Grand Duchy. With the transport plan 2017-2020, the offer has increased on the line passing through the municipality of Meix. The communal authority is therefore strengthened in its ambitions. The project seems a priori feasible. On the one hand, the terrain studied would be close to a crossing, which would be economically interesting for an unguarded stopping point. In addition, the area of said land that is in direct proximity to the village seems conducive to the reception of docks on either side of the tracks. On the other hand, the DESIRO equipment originally intended for the RER and therefore adapted to the frequency of stops seems to us a boon for mobility in rural areas, knowing that the inhabitants of rural areas are very dependent on their car to move. I think we are, Mr. Minister, on the same page to encourage a change of mindset on mobility issues. In view of the arguments put forward, can you tell us whether this type of project (opening an attached breakpoint in front of Virton) is conceivable and, if so, could you explain to us the different reasons for your refusal? I will conclude with my last question, as you wished, Minister. This is the reopening of a stop point in Turpange in the municipality of Messancy. I think that the members of this commission will know the geography of my province by heart before the end of the legislature, but that seems important to me! The same association "Friends of Rail Halanzy" conducted an investigation into the establishment of an unattended stop point near the Turpange crossing on line 167 between Athus and Arlon. The main advantages of an unguarded stop point are mainly economic. The proximity of the crossing requires neither the construction of a sub-lane crossing nor the presence of personnel for the crossing of the tracks. In addition, line 167 between Athus and Arlon is a single track: there is only one dock required. The return to service of this breakpoint would then be beneficial for three types of target groups. First, the survey of the "Halanzy Rail Friends" shows a real demand from the students. The train, faster than the bus, would allow them to reach their schools in Arlon or Athus. Next, the borderers are also applicants. Indeed, most of the inhabitants in the surrounding area work in the Grand Duchy and will be able to reach their place of work via Arlon or Athus, instead of congesting the nearby E411 motorway. Finally, the location studied for the future stop point is less than one kilometer from a large shopping centre. This would be a boon, either for the employees to visit the site or for the clients of the centre. This shows that opting for the train as a means of transport is not only beneficial for professional reasons and is a real alternative to non-professional travel. In view of these arguments and this brief presentation, Minister, my question is the same as for Meix. Do you think that the reopening of this point in Turpange is possible and if so, can you explain why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u40	Mrs Hanus, thank you for your question, which will allow me to take stock of some of the issues of rail in rural areas. I am sensitive to this issue because I live along the line you use, perhaps earlier on the line, in Namur province, but already in rural areas. I appreciate the importance of having credible and reliable alternatives to the individual car. The train is one. Of course we cannot serve all the villages and hamlets of the country, but I intend to break with the policy of recent decades, which has seen many stations and local services abolished for purely economic reasons, to the detriment of the population and the mobility service provided by SNCB. We will therefore break with this logic of disinvestment and there is no question, despite what I have read in the Luxembourg press, of closing Virton's station. I don't know where that information was found. I have made a commitment that there will be no closure of stations or stop points during this Parliament and that, on the contrary, where possible and relevant, we can reopen stop points. As far as the Virton station and its staff are concerned, SNCB confirms to me that the retiring station deputy head will soon be replaced in his duties. A recruitment process is currently under way. I take this opportunity to thank him for all the work he has done and wish him a peaceful retirement. As far as the breakpoints are concerned, I would like to point out that the SNCB reopened in May 2017 a few breakpoints in the province of Luxembourg, in Halanzy but also in Aubange. As part of the new transport plan from May 2021 onwards, these stops will also be served on the weekend. SNCB also wants to offer its customers a guarantee of trains as fast as possible in order to ensure a competitive journey time. It is true that the introduction of additional stops reduces the average commercial speed and attractiveness of the train for all customers. It will therefore be necessary to measure the choices that will be made. As part of the preparation of each new transport plan, a selection is made from among the projects to be carried out, on the basis of strategic criteria depending on the demand of potential customers, the availability of equipment, the capacity of infrastructure and the operational capacity as well. With regard to the potential reopening of the Meix-devant-Virton and Turpange breakpoints, SNCB tells me that there is not enough evidence at this stage to do so in light of the strategic criteria I have mentioned. Nevertheless, as I said, I am asking for stop points to be reopened in the course of this Parliament and must be reopened - you have heard the question of colleagues in Leuven for a stop at Haasrode - according to the priorities and the potential. First, we need to activate the breakpoints at the highest potential. I will remain attentive to the demands you have made on the basis of the means that I will be able to obtain as Minister for Mobility and other priorities, including the finalization of the Brussels-Luxembourg line on axis 3, which is one of the priorities that I am defending in the context of the subsidies that we are asking Europe with my excellent colleague, the Luxembourg Minister of Transport, François Bausch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u41	Minister, thank you for your insights into such important issues in the south of my province. I'm reassured about the attention points you're pointing out for Virton. It is important to hear that it is not your intention to close this station. This really helps to remove the uncertainties that still existed on this issue. I would also like to thank you for not closing the door at the reopening of the two stops mentioned - Meix and Turpange. It is indeed worth considering and reconsidering these two points, even if they cannot be the priority at the moment given the criteria you set out, and I can hear it. However, not closing the door is a positive signal that you are sending, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens' 55011827C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u43	Mr Minister, line 122 Geraardsbergen-Zottegem-Gent (Melle) is an important opening of South-East Flanders towards - mainly - the province capital of Ghent. In a modest way, SNCB's new transport plan, which has just been implemented, has highlighted this by introducing an additional train in the late evening hours. However, there are still many challenges and opportunities ahead. Because this line offers not only possibilities of access (in frequency then), but certainly also in terms of greening, energy efficiency,... the challenges are obvious. So you, as ECOLO guardian minister for Federal Mobility, have several keys in your hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u44	As Minister for Mobility, I would first and foremost like to be the Minister for Railways because I am convinced that the train must be the spearhead of the ecological transition to carbon-free modes of transport. This vision has been lacking in the railway sector in recent years, as witnessed by the lack of investment in the sector. According to my view, SNCB should be able to supply all stations every 30 minutes in the future, large agglomerations even every 10 minutes. The supply on line 122 should evolve in the same way. Between Sunday 13 December 2020 and the year 2023, SNCB increases its train supply by 4.7%. There are new IC connections, more trains on existing connections and extra early and late trains around the cities. The suburban train offerings around Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi are also further expanded. The increase in train supply by 4.7% takes place in different phases. This is necessary to take account of the available infrastructure, train equipment and staff. By 2023, all extensions should be in force, which amounts to 3.77 million additional train kilometres per year compared to the current transport plan. As regards your question on the possible replacement of SNCB's diesel trains on line 122, I refer to the answer I gave in the Mobility Committee of 10 November 2020 to oral question No. 5509319C on the sustainability of rail transport. If I am not mistaken, that was a question from Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u45	Minister, the general introduction was already known before you took office. As an East Fleming, I still lack ambition to expand that suburban network around Ghent, but above all to speed up the modernisation of electricity or hydrogen. I understood from your answer to Mr Roggeman's question that that study would have been completed by now, or at least almost. We look forward to this study in order to continue our work. Let us not forget that East Flanders is the shuttle region to Brussels par excellence. Moreover, we would like commuters to leave their cars in Brussels. Let it be like East Flanders where diesel trains still run. Actually, that's a little hypocritical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u46	Madam President, Minister, one of the main causes of major road accidents, in addition to excessive speed and drunk driving, is distraction. A very important source of distraction behind the wheel is of course the mobile phone or other screens that people handle while they are driving. That is expressly forbidden by the road code and quite rightly so, because anyone who uses a mobile phone or another screen behind the wheel has a much slower reaction time, do not pay attention and so on. It's just deadly dangerous. This is also apparent from research: it is estimated that around 10% of the annual traffic victims are likely to be underestimated. In Belgium it is thus 60 dead and 5,000 injured a year. It is therefore very important for road safety to maintain the ban on the use of the mobile behind the wheel. Today, that happens manually, in the act: the police must literally determine it with their own eyes. From an answer to a written question from me, I understand that in the last 10 years, some 100,000 fines have been issued a year. That sounds like a lot, but is actually very little: when one looks around on the road, one sees almost constantly, especially on the motorway, car drivers pulling on their mobile phones. Those 100,000 fines are therefore very low. The chance of getting caught is very, very small. Therefore, the Vias is working on a pilot set-up of intelligent cameras, which can detect violations with a certain probability. The cameras transmit the footage to a police officer, who can then validate the footage. Images without violation are automatically erased and people in the car are made unrecognizable, so in terms of privacy it seems to be good. In the Netherlands, such a camera system has been operational since November last year. It's a legal instrument that the D.A. uses to fine people. So there is a huge potential to increase the chances of this dangerous behavior. By the way, you wrote in your policy paper that you want to take a legislative initiative to see how technological progress can be used more easily by the police to maintain the road code. Hence the following questions, Minister. Do you have any timing in mind for this legislative initiative? Can you tell us about the Vias pilot project? What's the cost of it? Where and how long will it be carried out? After I submitted my question, an academic claimed that this pilot project would have been carried out illegally. Has the protection of privacy been taken into account? Have you requested advice from the Data Protection Authority? What are the experiences in the Netherlands, where such a system has already been put into operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u47	Madam President, Minister, we have heard that there is a pilot project. Of course we think that safety is important, but we have a lot of questions about this pilot project. In the meantime, comments have been made on this matter by the Data Protection Authority. We wonder why the Vias has not asked for advice from the Data Protection Authority. The Vias says it only intended to see if the technology works. However, this could have been done on a closed or controlled circuit with drivers who gave their consent, rather than on the public road. We therefore have a lot of questions about privacy in this area. I come to my specific questions. When did the Vias pilot project start in which motorists are photographed or filmed? Is this project still going on? How many drivers have filmed or photographed Vias for this pilot project? From what locations? How many drivers gave their permission to do this? On what legal basis did Vias base this pilot project? How many legal advisers does the Vias employ? Have they been consulted before the start of this pilot project? Did they give an internal positive opinion? Will you ask the Data Protection Authority to investigate this pilot project at Vias?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u48	Mr President, I have a long answer, but this is an interesting subject. With 56 deaths per million inhabitants, Belgium is above the European average, which is 51. It is in response to this alarming finding that the government agreement intends to implement actions to increase road safety, with the ambition to at least halve the number of road deaths by 2030 and reach zero by 2050. The coalition agreement wants to increase the chances of getting caught. One in three drivers are checked annually for speed, the use of alcohol or drugs, the seat belts, or the use of the mobile behind the wheel. It is the responsibility of my excellent colleagues in Justice and Home Affairs. The pilot project will run from 9 December 2020 to 8 February 2021. The rent of the cameras is 35,000 euros. The hours of the employees of the Vias for the project work and the data analysis will be added to that. The pilot project will be commissioned by the FPS Mobility and Transport. The purpose of the investigation is twofold. Firstly, it examines the performance of the new technology and, secondly, research is being carried out into the behaviour of drivers actually behind the wheel. These infringements are responsible for between 10% and 25% of all fatal accidents, depending on scientific research. This research will enable my administration to examine, on the basis of empirical data, whether, and if so, what initiatives are needed with regard to diversion in traffic. The site where the pilot project takes place is located on the Oosterweelwerf on the R1. It is impossible to say how many drivers have been filmed since December and will still be filmed until February 2021, because the vast majority of the images are immediately erased if no violation has been detected by the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u49	These images were never stored or viewed by a human eye. To date, images of 20,000 drivers have been stored anonymously by the relevant Vias researchers because a suspicious behaviour of the driver was detected. The legal basis on which this research is based is the legitimate social interest of the Vias to carry out important scientific research as a research institute. The research assignment that the Vias received from the FPS Mobility and Transport contained important agreements concerning the privacy of motorists and their passengers. A risk assessment and a data protection impact assessment were carried out to optimise the protection of the data subjects. The Vias appointed a data protection officer to work for the Data Protection Authority, which gave a positive opinion on this investigation. In addition, Vias was advised by an external privacy expert. The project was built according to the principles of privacy by design. This means, among other things, that photos where no violation is detected are immediately erased, that the face of passengers, who may use a mobile phone, is automatically made unrecognizable and that after the confirmation of mobile phone usage all data is anonymized. There is no link to other databases or other institutions and the personal data are not used for any other purpose. Since the legal basis of the Vias investigation is a legitimate social investigation, the Vias did not require the consent of the individual directors. For these reasons, according to the Vias, no prior consultation of the Data Protection Authority was necessary. This will of course change if the police will roll out this camera technology in order to identify and punish individual drivers. In the meantime, the Data Protection Authority has requested information about the project from the Vias. I do not know when the Data Protection Authority will give a ruling, but I think that it would be appropriate in any case to remove any legal uncertainty in this respect. For me, control and punishment are not goals in themselves, but if I see the effects of mobile use behind the wheel on road safety, then I think it is important to send a clear message. Cell phones and driving don't go together, just like alcohol and driving don't go together. If cameras can help counter that phenomenon, then they have to be part of the solution. I intend to start consultations with the partners police, justice, metrology and the Regions in a few weeks' time. There are several questions. Effectiveness is a matter and it is important to be able to increase enforcement capacity in order to detect the most problematic offences, but privacy is another matter. It would also be useful to have a clear legal status that would enable the police or other research institutions to carry out tests. It is for the police to determine the number of devices to use or install. Finally, the Dutch police started carrying out tests in 2018 with a system that they had developed themselves. In September 2019, together with the FPS Mobility and the Federal Road Police, the Vias was on a working visit in Driebergen to get a better idea of how the Dutch system works. As of 16 October 2020, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office is effectively fined, so too short for a truly thorough evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your excellent answer. It is very informative, but I am also very pleased that you have taken a clear position. I have heard you say very clearly that mobile phones behind the wheel and driving do not go together and that enforcement is very important. I have heard you literally say that cameras should be part of the solution, at least if the pilot project shows that this can contribute. I am firmly convinced that this will be the case, which is why I have already tabled a legislative proposal for this. What strengthens me even more in the belief that we need these cameras, Minister, is the astonishing figure you mentioned regarding the one-month fix on the Antwerp ring. In one month's time, 20,000 observations were made on one site of the large motorway network in this country. If we sell this against the only 100 000 fines that are currently being issued a year, then the end of the iceberg will only be affected today. The odds of getting caught are definitely going to have to go up. I am really pleased that this pilot project is running, that you are prepared to draw conclusions from it and that you are already looking ahead. Maybe one point of criticism. I think that in order to rule out discussions, it would have been better to have asked the Data Protection Authority for advice in advance. There is indeed a debate on this. Now well, the pilot project is running and I look forward to its results. If we are to take a legislative initiative, we must always ensure that privacy is protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u51	Minister, we are seriously critical of the way things have gone. Normally, Vias should first seek permission from the Data Protection Authority. Exactly the opposite has happened, because the Vias has just done its thing and only then asks the question. That's not okay. It is also a public body. Numerous data from people, including photographs of them, are kept without the consent of the authorities. That's impossible, isn't it? At least I think we should pay attention to people's privacy. We can't go over that lightly. So we do have problems with that. In this debate we also want other ideas to be sought to prevent people from using their mobile phones behind the wheel. For example, when discussing legislative proposals, it was already mentioned that manufacturers can make cell phone usage impossible. There are other possibilities than the method used by the Vias. We think it is very important that the reverse was done, since the privacy authorities were not involved before starting the pilot project. Well, that's problematic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u52	Mrs. Vindevoghel, this is a Vias project. I'm not the Vias. I'm Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u53	We're talking about a government agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u54	That is not the case, the Vias is not a public authority. By the way, the decisions were taken before I took up my current mandate as Minister. I have given my answer with caution. For me, the protection of people is central. Too many people are victims of traffic accidents, so we have to act. You may not find that interesting, but I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u55	Minister, I do not think you should make a contradiction by assuming that we consider road safety to be unimportant. However, privacy legislation cannot be used lightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u56	Minister, we have often had discussions here on access to railways and stations for people with disabilities. Recently, in the programme Factcheckers on the Flemish channel One, a state of play was given of the situation with simulations in the stations, on the platforms and on trains by people with reduced mobility themselves. This report showed that many of the facilities that are theoretically available for these people often do not work or only partially work, such as the help pole on the platforms that should allow people to ask for assistance. These events are, of course, daily costs for many people with reduced mobility. Minister, how many applications for assistance to people with reduced mobility do SNCB receive on an annual basis? In recent years, how many complaints have been received by SNCB about the non-conformity of their infrastructure or rolling stock to the needs of people with reduced mobility? If one wishes to make an application for assistance at a station, it must be done three hours in advance for the 41 largest stations, or for the other 132 even 24 hours in advance for a domestic journey. In neighbouring countries The Netherlands, Luxembourg and Switzerland this can be done up to 1 hour before departure. In our northern neighbors, this even applies in no less than 140 stations. Why is it so difficult for us? You announced during your policy statement that you also want to make SNCB's stations more accessible to people with reduced mobility. In practice, such renovations drag on for a long time. For medium-sized projects this often lasts for ten years or longer, for only policy preparation and planning, let alone implementation. Should we not show a little more ambition in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u57	Mr Roggeman, I always agree with a demand for more ambition. As announced during the presentation of my policy statement, improving accessibility is a priority for me. Trains in the station must be fully accessible to everyone, regardless of their state of health or physical capabilities. I urge those responsible for SNCB to pay sufficient attention to this aspect. The reportage to which you refer shows that there is margin for improvement. It's about the situation I've gotten, now that I'm a little over a hundred days minister. SNCB receives almost 60,000 requests each year from travellers who ask for assistance to travel by train. It may be a customer who moves with a wheelchair, but it may as well be a customer with a sprained or broken ankle, but also a mommy with a baby. At present, passengers in 132 stations can request assistance seven days out of seven. For the 41 largest stations this can be done up to three hours before the departure of the train. These 41 stations allow SNCB to serve two thirds of passengers. SNCB claims that it succeeds in successfully handling the requests, which will almost always allow the customer with reduced mobility to travel by train. SNCB argues that the number of negative reactions from its customers is therefore very limited. It is correct, however, that not all initial choices for train connections can be met. In these cases, a compromise is found between SNCB and the traveller. Mr Roggeman, SNCB does not have a breakdown of the requests for assistance per province. The lists of the PBM assistance stations are drawn up on the basis of the proximity of facilities for PPE but also on the basis of criteria such as geographical distribution, the size of the station, the presence of staff and already available infrastructure, the accessibility of platforms and the presence of ramps. In addition, the list has been drawn up according to the principle that there should be a station within a 10-km radius where guidance is possible. The condition to reserve three hours prior to departure has everything to do with the fact that within that time period a number of operations and controls have to be carried out. The contact centre must forward the reservation to the station concerned. The station must check that the assistance can be carried out, both at the departure and at the arrival station, as well as at any transfer station. It is then necessary to confirm, reject or, if necessary, propose an alternative and organise assistance. By comparison, in our neighbouring countries, the available platform infrastructure is more standardised and the compatibility of the rolling material and the platform is better, but we are working on this, as you know. SNCB also notes that each station renewal focuses on the accessibility of passengers with reduced mobility: platforms at 76 cm, a lift or ramp to each platform, blind lines and easy access to ticketing machines. It is the ambition of SNCB to double the number of fully accessible stations from 78 to 150 by 2025. In this way, 90% of passengers are reached. In addition, SNCB must also consider how it will provide for the additional supply of trains, which has been announced in my policy statement. In that context, my cabinet will continue to consult SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I agree with you that the accessibility of our trains and stations should be a permanent focus. What I did learn from that presentation is that we must also be critical of the figures and the theory. I do not doubt either the intentions of SNCB or your intentions, because I am convinced that we are all committed to improving accessibility, let us be clear. However, aid on paper is not the same as aid in practice. If, in practice, it turns out that, for example, aid poles, tools for requesting assistance are not working, then I am rather sceptical when SNCB claims to be able to respond successfully to almost all the requests for assistance. If some travellers are even in the inability to ask for help in the station, it goes without saying that appearances can deceive. So we need to be critical about the distinction between theory and practice, especially if that applies to infrastructure projects. They take a lot of time because the period between planning and delivery is rarely shorter than ten years. Therefore, it does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury to raise a tooth in that area as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u59	We will certainly discuss this at the hearings on 2 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u60	Minister, perhaps it is a coincidence that this question is now being discussed after yesterday's interesting debate. So I guess I don't have to lead them in at all. I expect of you, of course, answers to this concrete example, following the discussion we had yesterday and which will be followed up in a hearing. Let us come to some kind of best practice in the discussions on whether or not to close the discussion and on who is involved or not. I await your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u61	It is indeed of tragic topicality. Consider black points on the rail network because they have an impact on safety, punctuality, maintenance load and capacity. Therefore, Infrabel wants, where possible, to consider closing and/or replacing it with a bridge, a tunnel, a parallel road or a bicycle path. This is always done in consultation with local authorities. For the crossing on the Terjodenstraat there can be a full access alternative offered by the construction of a highway. As regards the partial abolition of the neighbourhood road 11, this is done in the context of the neighbourhood road procedure at the request of the province. The partial abolition of footpath 31 takes place in the context of the neighbourhood road procedure. This footpath no longer exists, but is regularized. The new road between the Ijzerenwegstraat-Groeneweg is needed as access for the houses in the Ijzerenwegstraat towards Denderleeuw, to be precise. As for your second question on the abolition of the Terjodenstraat-Ijzerenwegstraat motorway, there is no need for any further procedure. May I give you the written answer? It'll be easier for everyone. I have here a list of streets in Denderleeuw and other places. It has no added value to read it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u62	I understand that, and I agree with that. I hope to receive the answer rather soon. However, I would like to reply briefly. The introduction to the answer is already somewhat contrary to what lives among local residents and local authorities. I am repeating myself, but this is in line with the discussion we had yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u63	Madam President, Minister, corona tests are being carried out not only at airports, but also at stations such as Brussels-South, Antwerp-Central and Liège, corona test centres have been set up by the Red Cross for travellers arriving from abroad. Non-residents arriving from abroad must undergo the mandatory test in such a test centre if they are not yet able to produce a negative test result. Residents are strongly advised to be tested on site. I shall now come to my questions. How many tests are currently being carried out in SNCB's test centres? Does SNCB have the possibility to set up more test centres in the stations? Of course in cooperation with the Red Cross. If so, do you have any suggestions for this? Can the neighbors get tested in those centers? Is this also possible for SNCB staff? I've asked a question about vaccination before. It is now getting closer for the essential professions, and this will include the employees of SNCB. I hear a lot of questions from the staff about how the vaccination will go on with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, you did not put your last question in writing. The answer is: as soon as possible, as for all members of our society and all people in Belgium. SNCB has taken several measures. Firstly, there were audio announcements and announcements via the screens about the obligation to be tested when returning from a red zone, at both Brussels and Liège stations and Antwerp stations, Charleroi, and the border stations, and on board trains. Secondly, at the request of the Red Cross, SNCB has rented two premises for the establishment of test centres, which are announced to passengers by means of posters and signposts. The first test centre, that of Brussels-Zuid, has been operational since 2 January 2021 and is accessible from 09.00 hours until 23.00 hours. The second, that of Antwerp Central, is open since 3 January 2021 and is accessible from 09.00 hours until 20.00 hours. As SNCB does not manage these premises, it does not have information on the tests carried out in these premises. That's not her job. All these questions are the responsibility of the Red Cross. I therefore refer you to the Minister for Health, Mr Vandenbroucke. In the stations and trains to and from Brussels-South and Antwerp-Central it is announced that there is a test centre at both stations. The stewards in Brussels-South and Antwerp-Central will announce that there is a test centre in the station until 15 January 2021, which will show passengers exactly where that test centre is located and distribute flyers with public sector information. SNCB wishes to provide optimum information through the various channels available to it to make the presence of stewards and the distribution of flyers unnecessary in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u65	What is not clear to me is whether the staff can go there as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u66	Minister, in 2019 I asked your predecessor, Mr Bellot, the question of the future of the Aalst-Burst railway line, also known as the school line. I was then promised that it would be preserved at least until 2031. In the past the plans were often uncertain for obvious and indeed understandable reasons. First of all, I would like to repeat the question I asked Mr Bellot in 2019. What future do you see for line 82, not only in terms of time, but also in terms of target groups? This brings me seamlessly to the discussion that has flared up since the introduction of the new timetable. The pupils were largely ignored or forgotten, whether consciously or not, in the new timetable which entered into force on 13 December. For what reasons was the departure time after noon, which has been focused on students for decades, brought forward? Was this discussed with the Aalst transport region? If so, what was the outcome of this consultation? If not, why didn't they do that? Were the municipalities and city councils, especially of Aalst and Erpe-Mere and to a lesser extent Lede and Haaltert, involved? Also, and above all, were schools and school groups involved in any consultation? If so, what was the result? If no, why were they not involved in such consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u67	Mr De Spiegeleer, I can reassure you. The future of line 82 is not in danger. SNCB has expanded its offer between Kortrijk and Brussels with an additional IC train since 12 December 2020. To make the puzzle fit properly, the service of a few other trains had to be adjusted slightly. In this sense, the timetable of the P-train between Aalst and Burst had to be adjusted to avoid crossings with trains between Zottegem and Denderleeuw in Burst. SNCB is currently examining possible options for further optimisation. SNCB has for a few years had a good habit of having extensive consultations with all stakeholders in the run-up to its new transport plan. For example, she consults with stakeholders per province and tries to meet questions from the various stakeholders, for example those across line 82.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer that had already been given to me through other channels. I conclude from this that the services between Kortrijk, Oudenaarde, Zottegem and Brussels were improved and that the services and the hourly arrangements for regional lines were less priority. This, of course, will lead to such discussions and disappointment. You also pointed out that transport plans are being presented, and I will link them back to the local authorities. As a city council member in the opposition to Flemish Interest, I will be delighted to do so, because I have been told that they did not know anything about this. In fact, Minister, I hope that you are right and that they were 100% aware of the change in the timetable and the reason for it. You also reassured me that the future of the line is not in danger, but without mentioning a specific year. The issue will undoubtedly be dealt with in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u69	Mr Minister, a recent report has highlighted criticisms of mega-gares, "artwork" stations in Belgium and their exorbitant cost. These stations have resulted in significant expenses and discomfort for travellers waiting for the construction to be completed. You announced the end of these megaprojects. I thank you for that and I congratulate you. However, many reports and critics forget to mention a Belgian station which is also a work of art between a Gaudi monument and a painting by Kandinsky. It is the station of Ottignies, not because of its exorbitant cost but for its permanent scaffolding, its refits tolls of docks, high docks, a dangerous crossing and other things that show that this first station of Wallonia in terms of passengers is obsolete. You're namurois. You're going to tell me that Namur is the first station in terms of passengers, but in fact, it depends from year to year. With 21,000 passengers, Ottignies is a very important station in Wallonia. Built in 1994, it was already considered obsolete in 2004 when it was a very important intermodal node for the Walloon Brabant province and its rapid development in recent years. Today, the station is completely crowded, the docks are obsolete, parking for bicycles and cars are missing. The bridge that was built as a matter of urgency does not allow cyclists to ride their bicycles in the elevators. There is therefore a real concern in terms of coherence given the current mobility challenges. The schedule of works presented in 2018 foresees a new station for 2023 and the recovery of the docks in 2024. Minister, what is the updated agenda for the construction of the new Ottignies station? Are dock recoveries considered? What budget will be made available? The initial masterplan provided for the amount of EUR 150 million before the previous government planed it by 50%. Have any contacts been made with the Walloon Region to harmonize mobility projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u70	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, I fully agree with you that the environment and the current equipment at the Ottignies station do not match its importance in our rail network and the number of travellers and travellers who frequent it on a daily basis. I would like to reassure you that this project is a priority. The project for the renovation and even reconstruction of the Ottignies station and its wharfs, which are completely unsuitable for the accessibility which is often referred to in this commission, is carried out on the basis of the master plan drawn up in consultation with the local and regional authorities. It is an ambitious project, with the aim of renovating the entire site, including parking, bicycle parking, the nearby crossing and the bus station. The multimodal pole licence application that will become even more tomorrow the station of Ottignies, a plan integrating the building of the station, the bridge to the docks, their cover, as well as the parvis dedicated largely to the bus station, will be deposited in the course of the year 2021 for a theoretical completion of the works at the end of 2025 – it is necessary to be careful, but I will do everything possible to make this progress as quickly as possible. I met this Monday with the SNCB team in charge of the stations, to take stock of its strategy in general. It has been confirmed to me that the renovation of the Ottignies station was a priority also in connection with the finalization of the works of the RER, and that the necessary budgets were well set aside to carry out this work. A meeting is scheduled very soon between SNCB and the mayor of Ottignies, Mrs Julie Chantry, whom I greet. It is important that the intentions and objectives be shared between the railway operator, Infrabel, and the local and regional authorities. The renovation of the Ottignies station must allow for a better welcome and comfort of the passengers, better accessibility, both for active modes of travel (such as cycling), but also for people with limited mobility. The docks are in a state that does not allow this accessibility today. The plans that have been presented to me by SNCB go in this direction, while aiming at efficiency and the best value for money, which is my request as Minister of Mobility – you recalled in the introduction of your question. If I can afford a rail metaphor, the Ottignies station file is on the right track. I hope this train arrives on time. It will still take time and effort, but a new station at the height of the importance of this communication node that is Ottignies is on the horizon. With regard to its neo-louvanist neighbour, in the same municipality, four S trains per hour connect Ottignies, two live, with a slightly longer journey time, and two in correspondence, with a slightly shorter journey time. At the end of the four-lane work on the line 161 Ottignies-Brussels under the RER, four S trains will be planned from Louvain-la-Neuve to Ottignies, but all will continue – at least in rush hour – towards Brussels (two towards the north-midi junction and two towards the north-east of the capital). We are working to finalize these ambitions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u71	Minister, I am very pleased that you recalled the importance of the Ottignies station, not by regionalism, but because the figures mentioned yesterday are worrying. In Belgium, too high a proportion of CO2 emissions are still due to the car, so the development of such an important station has its full interest. I therefore thank you for your ambition. You have made the stars align as far as the RER is concerned, and I hope you will do so also for the Ottignies station and for the Brabanons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u72	Question No 5512096C by Mr Josy Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u73	Minister, I have asked the same question to your colleague, Secretary of State Schlitz. A survey was carried out by the ACV in the Brussels area on violence against women at SNCB. The figures that emerged from this were remarkable and disturbing. That is why I would also like to raise this issue for you. The annual reports of the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work contain nothing about this. That is a problem in itself. Let me briefly explain the results. 67.8 % of respondents were themselves victims of verbal or physical gender-related violence or inappropriate sexual behaviour in the workplace. For the majority of them, the problem was not recurrent, but it has enormous consequences for the well-being of workers. In addition, 41.78 % of respondents already witnessed gender-related violence or inappropriate sexual behaviour towards a female colleague in the workplace. It is striking that women report such facts more when they are witnesses than when they are victims themselves. I have a number of questions for you. What actions will you take in response to these figures on gender-related violence and sexual harassment on the railways? What prevention and protection measures will you take for the victims? Will you simplify access to report such facts for victims and witnesses? Will you provide a prevention campaign on sexist behavior in the workplace that could result in violence? How do you intend to handle this? Will you contribute to the elaboration of this theme in the plans for well-being at work on the railways?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u74	The problem you're raising is very close to my heart. You can't doubt that. It is important to me that our public enterprises are exemplary and reflect the employment of society. Then, of course, it is important that every employee with his/her own characteristics feels safe within his/her working environment. I have therefore obtained information on this from the companies. On this subject, each of the three companies, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail, has its own responsibility and must set up its own political measures. However, the three companies tell me that they take the problems you are raising very seriously and that this is a constant focus of attention within the welfare and diversity policies of the three companies. Moreover, the three companies have the same external prevention service, i.e. IDEWE, so that the approach in this area does not differ between companies. Care for the employees is a top priority at Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail, as is ensuring the psychosocial well-being of everyone. Any unwanted behaviour at work is therefore condemned. The companies regularly question their staff in the field of psychosocial well-being, as provided for in the legislation on well-being at work. The interviews are based on risk analyses in that context. Previous interviews revealed no specific problems with regard to unwanted sexual behaviour at work. In accordance with welfare legislation, Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail have the various internal and external procedures to report unwanted behaviour at work, for example informal and formal request for psychosocial intervention. If there are problems, Infrabel and HR Rail have an extensive internal and external network of contacts for their employees: the managers, the HR business partners, the Interpersonal Relationship Management cell, the mediators, the local prevention advisors, the internal prevention services and, of course, the trusted persons. Any notification, through any channel, shall be examined with the necessary seriousness. Each possible file shall consider what is necessary to protect the victim concerned. This can be done together with an internal mediator, the internal and external prevention service or other necessary parties. New employees at Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail will be informed during a reception session on well-being at work about the possibilities available to report unwanted behaviour when faced with it. By means of various campaigns, the employees of the companies are made aware that diversity and inclusion are assets and discrimination is not tolerated. In the case of SNCB, there have been, for example, the campaigns Respect@Work and All Diverences are Pros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u75	I have no doubt, Minister, that this is a matter of concern to you, but we note that the problem is underestimated in the working environment. In Flanders there was the De Pauw case. There was also a survey of people working in service cheque companies. It also showed hallucinatory figures of sexual misconduct. The fact that so few cases are passed on to the prevention service of SNCB is a signal that it is not yet so accessible. I had hoped that you would make a proposal to ensure that women and men could easily complain. A suggestion is to make an accessible document available on the website of the three different companies, where staff can lodge a complaint. I am concerned, on the one hand, about the figures given, and, on the other hand, about the fact that the internal service receives hardly any complaints. That shows that people don't find the way to do that yet. I hope that the public sector can play a major role in this so that every member of staff can work safely, without fear of sexual misconduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u76	Minister, exactly one year ago I asked your predecessor, former Minister Bellot, a question on the state of play of the project concerning the revaluation of the former railway 57, located between Aalst and Dendermonde, which is prepared by Infrabel and the Flemish Region, and is also considered a priority by the Flemish Region. At that time, the answer was that Infrabel was planning studies for an award contract, which would be issued in the short term. In the meantime, we're a year away. I would have liked to have gotten an update on that project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u77	Mr Roggeman, in answer to your question, Infrabel tells me the following. At present, the procurement procedure is under way to designate an external study firm to be commissioned to carry out the planned feasibility study. The tender is in the BAFO phase, best and final sacrifice. The studies of lines 52 and 57 were included in a specifications. A Steering Group on Feasibility Studies, setting up the various stakeholders concerned. At the end of this month we expect the traffic projections of the Department of Mobility and Public Works (MOW) Flanders. These will be provided as input to the external office. Of course, licence applications will only be launched in the light of the results of the feasibility studies and a positive decision to continue the project. Possible innovations of the platforms and the opening of new stops will be part of the feasibility study. The topographical measurements were made and the drone photo was taken. This is the state of play in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad to hear something's happened anyway. It has been referred to by the Flemish Region as one of the Flemish railway priorities since 2016. In the project sheet prepared together with Infrabel, the study was already planned for 2019, two years ago. It is a little strange that a project that is identified as a priority is already delayed for two years before the start. According to you, first steps have already been taken. The specifications are issued and the tenders are received. We look forward to the progress of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u79	I'm going back to Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u80	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to come back to this question that I was unable to ask because, obviously, at the end of 2020, I lost my gift of ubiquity and I couldn't duplicate myself to come and ask you the question in time. I would therefore like to thank you for accepting its postponement on the agenda. Minister, a recent study by the NGO Transport & Environment indicates that the latest models of plug-in hybrid vehicles actually pollute much more than car manufacturers claim. We're talking about 28% more CO2 emissions than we originally promised. Even over small distances, the thermal motor takes precedence over the electric motor, for example at the start of the car or during accelerations. And, in longer distances, the vehicle goes into heat after only 11 or 18 km, depending on the model, while it has a much greater range. Worse still, the tests carried out with only the thermal motor and the flat electric battery show a CO2 exceedance of the order of eight times greater for some models compared to what was displayed by the manufacturer. The NGO concludes that the electric motors of the latest models of plug-in hybrid cars are poorly designed and not powerful enough. For his part, the editor-in-chief of the Auto Monitor instead denounces the use of these vehicles. According to him, these are bought by companies because there is a tax incentive, but the beneficiaries of these vehicles would never charge them because they often also have a gasoline card paid by the employer and therefore have no financial interest in charging their company car. However, a plug-in hybrid can only emit less CO2 if it is recharged as often as possible. Minister, what analysis do you make of this study by the NGO Transport & Environment? Does the government intend to take steps to address this inconsistency of plug-in hybrids that would pollute much more than the so-called reality displayed and praised by manufacturers and ultimately undermine the benefits of electric power? If so, what can be said about your discussions with your colleagues in charge of finance and energy, but also possibly with your colleagues in the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u81	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, your question is very interesting. I share your astonishment on the subject that is well known and deserves an approach full of nuances. The results of the NGO Transport & Environment study on hybrid vehicles are indeed challenging and raise questions. As the study shows, these hybrid vehicles are able to contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions, but only under certain conditions. And when they are misused, the opposite happens. Here are some elements of precision and contextualization that allow us to put the study into perspective. The tests carried out in this study are different from the tests carried out for the approval of vehicles and the determination of the official CO2 emission values. It is therefore not surprising – as has already been observed in other cases – that the measured CO2 emission values are different from the official emission values. This is not acceptable, but it is a well-known phenomenon. The tests carried out in the framework of the study thus make more use of the performance of the vehicles and their engines, without surprise leading to higher emission values. The choice of vehicles tested for the study is also not insignificant. These are three SUV models whose size and mass are higher than the average. Their representativeness in relation to the current supply of plug-in hybrid models on the market can therefore be questioned. Finally, it is useful to point out that the level of pollution of air pollutants released by plug-in hybrid vehicles is not called into question in the study, but their level of greenhouse gas emissions, in this case CO2. In view of the above reservations, however, this study highlights, like others before it, the extreme variability in the level of CO2 emissions of plug-in hybrid vehicles depending on the mode and driving conditions. It is here both the use and the technology that influence the level of emissions. As the study shows, these vehicles are able to contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions, but only under certain conditions. On the technological side, it is desirable that the range in electric mode should be as high as possible and that the performance of the electric motor should be maximized in relation to the performance of the thermal motor. In terms of usage, it is essential to charge the vehicle battery as often as possible. The electric motor should therefore be used systematically in urban areas and for maximum acceleration as, for example, to achieve the desired speed on the motorway. It would therefore be useful to check whether the current tax framework was conducive only to technologies, the most virtuous uses in order to avoid a return to a tax niche, as was known with false hybrids before corrective measures were taken. This is a question of the company car regime. With respect to your question about what measures the government intends to take, such as the federal contribution to the National Energy-Climate Plan adopted last year, strengthening tax measures for plug-in hybrid vehicles is one of the measures that will be examined to green the company car fleet. I also referred to this in my policy statement to ensure that emissions from these vehicles are not underestimated and that their actual environmental impact is taken into account. I intend to work with my excellent colleague the Minister of Finance in the coming months. At European level, I will, together with my excellent colleague the Minister of Climate, Environment and Sustainable Development and the Green Deal, ensure that the official CO2 emission values of plug-in hybrid vehicles are, in the future, more representative in the context of the revision of the CO2 emission standards for light-duty vehicles scheduled for the second half of 2021. I have explicitly asked the Mobility FPS to be attentive to these issues in the context of discussions prior to formal negotiations. With regard to your question about exchanges with my colleagues in charge of Finance and Energy, I should like to inform you that it is in my work programme for the year 2021, on the understanding that we have been at work for a hundred days, and that there is still a lot to be done by 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u82	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to see that, obviously, our analyses are on the same wavelength. We are all aware of the need to avoid undesirable effects, both fiscally and environmentally. You have also mentioned a peripheral issue to this issue, which is that of vehicles with high environmental costs, with a tax loss that is equally so. All these aspects must, of course, be taken back into account in the reflection on the tax reform which the government will have to draw up and propose to this Parliament. We will remain attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u83	Minister, in 2014, Infrabel began work to upgrade the tunnel under the Verviers railway station, its courtyard and the Victoire square in order to allow the two-storey cars to move. On this occasion, many people would have wished for a redevelopment of the esplanade in front of the station, which, for years, has been a sad parking lot for the extra-urban buses of the TEC. It wasn't! Worse, Infrabel informed the communal authorities of the loss of the stones constituting the magistral stairs (dated 1920-1930) of this court, with the result that the prior situation would not be reproduced identically. All this without a planning permit! The solution was the laying of a slab that allowed the return of buses, all in the context of a temporary arrangement that did not solve the safety problems caused by the cross-traffic movement of pedestrians and vehicles within space. At the same time, a study by Eurogare had been launched to examine the possibilities of valuing the surroundings of the site. In particular, it had to look at the potential for creating a new parking area for extra-urban buses. His findings have never been made. Two meetings scheduled between the City and SNCB in January and June 2020 were cancelled by SNCB. This station is a remarkable building from a heritage point of view which, by definition and because of its geographical location, forms one of our main entrances to the city. It deserves an esplanade to the height of its architectural and heritage value and its status as the capital of Verviers arrondissement. Minister, how does the SNCB envisage the continuation of this matter or rather its resumption? What are its plans for the development of the park? No dialogue was resumed with the municipal authorities. What about the stairs lost during the works, which is quite surreal? Stairs of such value lost in the framework of the works is amazing! How could the loss of stairs compensate? Can we hope for a resumption of the study by Eurogare, which, in theory, conditions all the planning mentioned? If so, under what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u84	Mr Ben Achour, I must not remind you that the rail industry has suffered from chronic disinvestment for too many years, as evidenced by the disrepair of too many railway stations. Verviers deserves better than his current station, I can tell you, for having visited her a few times. In general, my ambition as Minister of Mobility for railway stations is twofold. In the short term, the most urgent renovation needs must be addressed where necessary. This is necessary in some of them. We talked earlier about Ottignies, as well as Verviers and other stations across the country. In the long run, I also want to rethink the stations, their facilities, in order to make them safer, more multimodal, more accessible. You know that. With regard to your three specific questions about the Verviers station, I can confirm that a meeting took place on 14 January, six days ago, between the commune, Infrabel and SNCB in order to relaunch the discussions about the future of the station. The projects relating to the development of the park persist but involve consultation between many players: Walloon public transport, SNCB, Infrabel, the Wallonia Public Service and the municipality. SNCB, if it is to be fully involved in this project in dialogue with the local authorities, cannot alone bring all the desired and desirable solutions. It represents only one of the links in the chain. I think and hope that she works constructively whenever possible with every municipality and city. Concerning the stones lost during the works, Infrabel has revised the works of the temporary court and knows the location of the current storage of these stones. The idea is, indeed, that SNCB integrates in the new project the recovery of these stones, while ensuring the accessibility objectives. This is not always the case if historical elements are observed. With regard to the Eurogare study, it needs to be updated in order to respond to the challenges, objectives and technical constraints of each of the stakeholders. The resumption of discussions at the beginning of January allowed us to exchange these new data and to start updating this study in order to continue the work between each of the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u85	Minister, thank you for these really interesting answers in several ways. I note that the dialogue resumed a few days ago. That's a good thing. Now I think we have to do everything we can to get him to speed up. We are actually dealing with a real saga that started in 2014 with a study by Eurogare that conditioned all the investments but, at one point, needed an update of the communal mobility plan; it arrived. Eurogare has disappeared and has been taken over by SNCB with poorly identified interlocutors. Many things are to be re-examined and resumed in the right direction. I repeat that all this was done without a permit, but I am very pleased to learn, if I understood what you were telling me, Minister, that Infrabel knows where the monumental and historic stairway of the railway station square is located. Do you confirm to me, minister, that the location of the stairway is known?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u86	I have told you that the responsibility lies with Infrabel and that Infrabel has been questioned; I do not yet have the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u87	All right. But the answer was communicated to the city several years ago: they lost the stairs. I hope that under your guidance, we'll find him. I'll offer you a rice pie, minister, I'm committed to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u88	I was not told that this staircase had been found, and I am very sorry, but the responsibility is divided between the SNCB and Infrabel. I'm not the one who invented this model and Infrabel did the work on this staircase, but I have the impression that it's already an old story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u89	Yes, it's an old story. Be it! Let us move forward as quickly as possible in the service of multimodality, in a city that is an important mobility node in the borough. I will therefore, of course, pay close attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u90	Minister, 2021 can be better in so many aspects than 2020. In my view, this also applies to rail, because I have already asked a question about it. This year we are celebrating the year of the train. The European Commission is collecting a number of celebrations, namely the 20th anniversary of the first railway package of the European Union, the 175th anniversary of the first rail link between two EU capitals, Paris and Brussels, the 40th anniversary of TGV and the 30th anniversary of the ICE, in one major year of celebration: the year of the railway. Of course, much of this year will unfortunately continue to suffer from the current health measures, which constitute a serious restriction on international rail traffic. Passenger numbers have also fallen significantly on national lines. Nevertheless, this year, in policy terms, may be a trend break year. We can highlight and highlight even more the advantages of the train, both for passengers and for goods. In that respect, I have a number of questions for you. What initiatives will be taken in Belgium as part of the European Year of Rail? In your reply to a previous question, you referred to the establishment of a national contact point for the coordination of projects within the framework of the year of the train. Has that contact been established in the meantime? If so, how will it function? What is his specific job description?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u91	As a new Minister for Mobility, Mrs Buyst, I have indeed noted with pleasure that the European Commission has declared the year 2021 European Year of Rail. In the motivation of that choice, the European Commission refers to its Green Deal, with a view to transforming the Union into a fair and prosperous society with a modern economy that deals respectfully with the limited presence of raw materials and is also climate-neutral. The Commission refers to the track as a lever in its ambition, an ambition that I can only support. That is why I am focusing on the development of rail as a cornerstone of my policy, both for passenger and freight transport, both nationally and internationally, both briefly cross-border and long-distance. I will use the momentum created by the European Commission's designation of 2021 as European Year of Rail to enter into consultation with my European colleagues. The European Commission calls on all Member States to set up a coordination body. In the Mobility and Transport FPS, a national contact person was appointed for this purpose and a first meeting with the European Commission and the contact persons of all Member States is scheduled on 22 January. The contact person is expected to inform the European Commission of initiatives taken at national level and to motivate national players in relation to the European Year of Track to encourage strong participation at national level. The contact person shall also assist the European Commission in validating events and projects introduced by the various actors. Several Belgian railway companies have already indicated to me that they are planning activities within the framework of the European Year of Railways, but they always point out that the implementation of these plans depends very much on the evolution of the covid crisis, like many things in our society. I can also tell you that the Europalia Festival has chosen the subject of rail for its 21st edition and is developing an ambitious programme for this purpose. I'll meet the initiators in a few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u92	Minister, homework will remain the norm in the coming months, but a lot of commuters miss the train as well. I am there myself and I look forward to travelling by train to Brussels and reading the newspaper during my pendelander half hour, listening to the latest podcast or just staring through the window. The year 2021 will again not be a record year for the train or for passengers on the train, but I am very glad that this will not stop us and that you confirm that we will also be taking advantage of the train, the train escorts and all the people who ensure that the train continues to run in Belgium this year. I am also pleased that a contact person will coordinate this and encourage the railway undertakings. I understand, of course, that the development of COVID-19 will have to be taken into account in order to see what events can be organised, but it is again a testament to the ambitious agenda you have for the track, Mr Minister, and to the fact that you also want to promote European cooperation in this area, I, as a Member of Parliament, am incredibly happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u93	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55011554C, 55011917C, 55012149C, 55012232C and 55012537C Mr Prévot converted 55012227C into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u94	Mr President, Minister, after a year I asked about a state of affairs concerning railway line 57. Now I would like to get an update on rail line 52 between Dendermonde and Puurs. For some time now there has been a design project for the reactivation of this railway line, in order to connect Dendermonde with Antwerp. Infrabel's strategic multi-annual investment plan and the financing of the Flemish Region provided for a budget of 1 million euros for the preparation of a regional spatial implementation plan, a plan-MER, a project-MER and an environmental permit. In an earlier projection, these were foreseen from 2018. In the meantime, we are three years ahead. Apart from that project, Infrabel is now preparing the construction of an alternate track on the railway 52/53 at the underpass with the regional road N41. The space is limited there, because also the bike highway has to be built along this location. As a result, there is a danger that there will be a bottleneck for the various projects, such as an alternate track, a reactivation of the railway line and the bike highway at the same location. What is the state of play with regard to the preparation of the project on the reactivation of railway line 52? From the former railway line 52 Dendermonde-Puurs remains a single track, which today is only used by a tourist steam train. Is this bed sufficient for a possible reactivation of the railway line or should an extension be planned to create a double track? With regard to the crossing of the railway line with the N41, is it technically possible to realize both the alternate track and the bike highway as well as the reactivation of the railway line? If no, how does Infrabel intend to resolve this? Which projects does it give priority to? What projects at that location does it want to delete?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u95	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, I have received the following answers from Infrabel. At present, the procurement procedure is still under way to designate an external study firm to be commissioned to carry out the planned feasibility study. The tender is in the phase of BAFO. The studies of lines 52 and 57 were included in a specifications. A Steering Committee was set up on feasibility studies, including the various stakeholders involved. At the end of this month we also expect the traffic forecast of Bouw-Vlaanderen. These will also be provided as input to the external study office. Of course, licence applications will only be launched depending on the outcome of the feasibility study and a positive decision to continue the project. The feasibility study will also examine the framework conditions and possible bottlenecks for the cycle highway. The possible renewal of the platforms, the choice of single or double track and the opening of new stops will be part of the feasibility study. The topographical measurements and the drone photos have already been made. At the level of the N41 the alternate track and the bike highway are compatible. The Driebeekstraat will be cut, but there is already an agreement on this with the city of Dendermonde. We aim to work out a solution, so that the possible reopening of line 52 is compatible with the alternate track and the bike highway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I am pleased to learn that after three years this project is finally in the start-up phase. We'll see how it takes shape. I also note that the alternate track and the new cycle highway are compatible, but I note that you cannot say the same for the reactivation of the railway. I'm very curious how that shape will take shape. The circumstances are, of course, what they are and we cannot make room for magic. There are three projects in one location. Two of them are already compatible, one third not yet. I am curious to see what it will be like for the reactivation of the railway line, but I will come back to that in a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u97	Minister, in many stations people without roofs are seeking temporary shelter, as it is a public space. Many station buildings are open late in the night and early in the morning. These are therefore very attractive to use as a place to sleep for these people. Just because it is a public space, legally the curfew in Flanders after midnight (up to 5 a.m.) and in Wallonia & Brussels after 10 p.m. (up to 6 a.m.) does not allow people to be present without a valid reason for moving.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u98	Mr Roggeman, according to the information available to SNCB, the police forces throughout the country have been instructed to be somewhat tolerant of homeless people who cannot keep to curfew, which I believe is a good position and a correct approach. Corona rules relating to curfew are checked exclusively by the police. SNCB's staff, who are witnessing an infringement of those rules, have been instructed to inform the police through SNCB's security operation centre or SOC. In that context, Securail's assignments are the same as when there is no pandemic, which means that Securail personnel only ask people to leave the station after closing time. Nothing has changed for SNCB's field experts as well. They continue to address the homeless in the stations with the aim of bringing them into contact with the specialized emergency services. SNCB maintains contacts with the various social services operating in the stations or in the vicinity of the stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u99	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to offer you my best wishes for this new year. Mr Minister, the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels issued an order on 9 December, following the introduction of a new action for environmental cessation, by which it again condemned the Belgian State for operating three air routes. Such a holding would constitute an infringement of the "noise" order of 27 May 1999. The court found that the Envis report requested after the 2019 judgment was only an impact study, insufficiently scientifically supported in other business models. This document, moreover incomplete since it does not contain any acoustic data, is therefore not admissible. A full report must be submitted no later than 1 June 2022. The order of 9 December reaffirms once again the evidence that, on the one hand, compliance with Brussels noise standards constitutes a legal obligation to which the Belgian State is obliged to comply and, on the other hand, that the Belgian State has not taken any concrete measures since the judgment of 1 February 2019 to deal with the problem of noise nuisances, justifying its inertia by the crisis, first of all political, then health. Finally, a third remarkable argument, because we know that the noise pollution caused by the overflight of densely populated areas is often night nuisances, the ordinance is a "organised attack on the sleep of the population which affects public health and, in doing so, to public order". Since you took office, Minister, you probably have not yet had the time to grasp this difficult issue which, in the terms used in the order, is referred to only in a "succinct and abstract" manner in the government agreement. As the common sense ordinance rightly points out, safety, economic exploitation of the airport and the fundamental right of residents and persons living under the roads to a healthy environment are conciliatable and are not diverging in nature. As a result, Minister, what action do you intend to take to enforce this court decision? Will any initiatives be taken to achieve a real cadastre of noise, a scientific instrument that must objective the situation of overflights in a neutral and independent way in order to really determine the situation of these, common by commune, neighbourhood by neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u101	Mr De Smet, thank you for mentioning with us the painful issue of the noise pollution caused by the aviation activity at Brussels-National Airport. I can confirm that it is important for me to make a positive change in this matter, like all the other files I am dealing with, but this is a particular one. You'll agree with me that this case is complex. Many of my predecessors have broken their teeth, and some have made decisions that do not help with an easy resolution of the questions that are now being asked. You also know that he is the subject of multiple legal actions with sometimes contradictory decisions. It is therefore essential to approach it in a methodical and documented manner. In this context, I very much welcome the order issued on 9 December 2020 by the Brussels Court of First Instance, which calls on the Belgian State to complete the impact study carried out by Envisa in its two parts, in particular the section "Independent evaluation of the sound impact", in accordance with the procedures laid down in the judgments of 19 July 2017 and 1 February 2019. I asked the Mobility FPS without delay to take the necessary contacts to relaunch this work. I expect a lot, Mr. De Smet, from this supplementary study. I will ensure that the quality of the programme is in line with the expectations of all stakeholders. Indeed, it could – I hope it will – be an important piece from which a fair and lasting solution can be drawn up in this case. This solution must be based on the federal but also regional legal framework. Here I mean compliance with Brussels noise standards. Aviation safety will always remain the determining factor. Health and environmental aspects will now have to be considered at their fair value. The time to the economy is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u102	Minister, I thank you for your answer, which is hopeful and which resonates positively. I do not need to remind you that after years of inertia on this issue, we expect much from a new minister of a party that has not been in charge for a long time. This is not just about the comfort of the residents. It is about respect for court decisions. As you have just said, political and economic considerations have for a long time poisoned the life of this issue. I am pleased to hear from you about the complementary study and respect for the federal and regional legal framework and aviation safety. I will of course follow you on this file step by step. Thank you for the attention you give him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u103	Mr. Secretary, the city toll is still spinning. That is the least we can say about the dossier. We have had a discussion this week on the dossier in the context of the legislative proposals and resolutions. There was the position of the PS and Magnette, which is an opponent, which in turn was denied by Brussels Minister Vervoort. It is important for you, in your capacity as Federal Minister of Mobility, to take a position on this matter. That is why I shall return to the matter. After all, the people remain awake, both the Brusselsers and the Walls and our Flemish friends. My question is as follows. Have you consulted the Brussels Government yourself in response to the statements made by the PS and its different views? You have already defended the Brussels Government's project to introduce a city toll. Do you still believe the project is a good idea? Will the city toll be introduced in 2022? What are the different regional authorities' views on the Brussels kilometre tax? What is the federal government's position on the Brussels mileage tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u104	Mrs Vindevoghel, I am still not a member of the PS or a member of the Brussels Government. So I do not have much to comment on Mr Magnette's statements. Here's what I can give you. I agree with the findings of the Brussels Government and its objectives, in particular to reduce congestion in and around Brussels with all its consequences in terms of health, the environment and the economy. I want to be a provider of solutions in the context of a dialogue, with respect for everyone. It is also important to be able to objectify the situation. This is one of the tasks entrusted to the ad hoc consultative structure set up by the consultative committee. I am and will remain attentive to the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u105	Mr Minister, as I understand it, there has already been consultation with the various players. That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u106	Mrs Vindevoghel, the Consultative Committee decided to set up an ad hoc consultative structure. The discussions will take place there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u107	However, Minister, you do not take a position in your capacity as federal minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u108	I am not a member of the Brussels Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u109	However, Minister, you are responsible for the whole. It would therefore be a good thing if you were to give your own opinion on the matter. It is, of course, very important for us to do something about mobility in Brussels. However, it is not a good idea to work with taxes, for which ordinary people have to pay. We have therefore also put forward our own proposal to find concrete solutions to mobility in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament 55012400C by Mrs Verhaert was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u111	Minister, sometimes your Twitter account is an inspiration for an oral question. You tweeted about the Vitirover, a robotic mower that can travel on solar energy in all kinds of fields. The SNCF group in France wants to get to work on this. It would be a revolution if the Vitirover could provide a solution for the poison train, so that we can finally stop spraying 5000 kg of pesticides on or around the tracks every year. Has Infrabel conducted an investigation into the use of the robot? Could the robot also be a solution for infrabel? If not, why not? Many other foreign infrastructure managers also dare to put forward an ambitious objective for the elimination of pesticides, such as the Swiss SBB. What objectives does Infrabel impose on itself to eliminate pesticides or at least to eliminate them? Will provisions in this area form part of the new service contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u112	Mrs Buyst, that is a very good question. My Twitter account is an excellent source of inspiration. Infrabel is fully committed to the search for alternative techniques for the replacement of arthropods. That was before I was appointed Minister. Of course, the possibility of robotic mowers is also considered as an alternative to keeping weed-free of, among other things, the safety paths. It also explores how new paths can be built, so that they can be efficiently maintained with robot lawnmowers at a later stage. We're already running tests for this. In addition, Infrabel committed to reducing pesticide consumption in its Action Plan Pesticide Reduction 2019-2023. Four commitments are put forward: the traceability of the treatments carried out, the reduction of the herbicide-treated surface, the implementation of alternative techniques and the protection of vulnerable areas. Infrabel assures me that there are currently no alternative techniques available, which can be deployed on a large scale on the railway domain. However, Infrabel does take many initiatives to develop alternative techniques in collaboration with the knowledge centres and industry. I hope and ask for rapid progress in the dossier. Indeed, I intend to include in the service contracts to be concluded with Infrabel a number of provisions on sustainability and environmental protection. It is my ambition to interpret the concept of sustainability widely. Negotiations are under way with the companies on this matter. We have a first meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u113	Mr Minister, in recent years all the other public authorities have also had to try to significantly reduce the use of pesticides. Indeed, the changeover is not easy, certainly not for Infrabel. I have already asked questions about this in the past. They replied regularly that they were looking for alternative techniques. I'm sure it's not easy. It is not obvious to find a cheap and less time-intensive solution than to spray everything that grows. I'm not sure we have to wait for that either. I am therefore pleased that there is further research into alternative techniques and that you are also committed to include some ambitious sustainability objectives in management contracts or service contracts. I'm just applauding that. We can't wait anymore. There are alternatives. Let us use as many pilot projects as possible. Let us get started so that we can significantly reduce pesticide use. I am glad that you want to fight with me in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u114	Mr President, Minister, recently there were two travellers in the press who wanted to take the fastest journey to the coast from their hometown. As a result, they drove twice over the same rail section. The ride they chose was the fastest, but also the longest option and they had to buy an extra ticket. When they asked for explanations, they each received a different explanation from SNCB's customer service. The spokesman for SNCB has made it clear that the fastest route can sometimes have an additional price, because the price is always determined by the number of kilometres, while the traveler's logic of course puts the speed above the distance. SNCB acknowledges that it should better inform its passengers about that system, but does not wish to abandon it. It is only an anecdote, but it does indicate how complex SNCB's tariff rules can be, also for SNCB's employees. Its logic sometimes runs to the detriment of customers when they opt for the fastest route. That does not seem to me to be the right way to seduce more people to take the train. Mr Minister, do you share the iron logic of SNCB, in which distance must be price-defining, or are you prepared to examine whether another logic can be used, which does not charge passengers with additional costs if they choose the fastest route? Which slopes do you see to attract more people to the train through an adjustment of the tariff system, as the government agreement aspires? Moreover, the government agreement states that the tariff system will be greatly simplified and that the traveller, I quote,'must always be offered the best rate'. When can we expect this reform of the tariff system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u115	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add my voice to Mr Vandenbroucke's question. I had also read the mentioned testimonies about travelers who wanted to take the shortest route to the coast. In addition, I can say that SNCB often makes it more difficult for its travellers. The SNCB app offers no less than 23 options for a ticket, but in no way is it advised on which ticket can best be taken at what time. For example, it is more common for people to have the right to a weekend ticket, but forget to opt for that option. I think we should assume that passengers are always entitled to the cheapest fare for a particular route, not that they should know the full tariff plan of SNCB by heart. The conditions of use between the various transport tickets are also inadequate. SNCB proudly announced last week that you can now buy tickets via Payconiq. That is indeed very good news. The more platforms offer tickets, the lower the threshold to buy an e-ticket. However, the refund conditions for tickets purchased electronically are not the same as those for tickets purchased at the vending machine. Tickets purchased at the counter or the vending machine will pay SNCB back until the day before the travel date or up to 30 minutes after purchase. Tickets purchased via app or website do not pay back and do not exchange them. The railway Ombudsmen have already sued that situation in his annual report. The difference in treatment cannot be explained and shows little confidence in digitisation. Do you also think that SNCB should make more efforts to simplify its ticketing policy and make it more customer-oriented? If so, what suggestions do you have for SNCB in this respect? What efforts will SNCB make to ensure that each traveller is informed of the most advantageous formula for him or her? Do you think that SNCB should apply uniform sales conditions for all its tickets, regardless of whether they are purchased via the app or at the window? Former Minister Bellot replied to my question last year that SNCB is working on a solution. Have any steps been taken? How's it going?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u116	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Buyst, I share your view that what happened to travellers on the Herent-Ostend route is a very unfortunate matter. Something like that doesn't seem very exciting. I know the situation: to go to my house in Assesse, sometimes I have to go all the way to Ciney and then back to Assesse. That is a longer journey, but it seems to me to be the logic itself that this should be possible at the same price. The current situation is a bit different. I haven't worked out the rules that are in force right now. SNCB lets me know that the distance is the most logical criterion for calculating the price of a ticket. Cases where the circumstances make a traveller opting for a detour and thus for a longer distance..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am committed to looking with SNCB at whether there is a solution to this and the system can be changed. As far as tariffs are concerned, SNCB is currently still bound by the management contract negotiated in 2008. There are a number of different products today, each with their own conditions. Indeed, that product offer is difficult to read. SNCB therefore wants to simplify the product and tariff offer. The timing of simplifying the tariff system is similar to that of the new public service contract. I am currently examining with SNCB what measures can already be taken outside the new contract. In this context, I am certainly referring to the passage in the coalition agreement that you quoted, Mr Vandenbroucke, which states that the government, together with SNCB, will develop a project to offer each passenger the best rate in the future. I fully support this project, including as a negotiator. SNCB also tells me that it has built into its new smartphone app the possibility to create a My SNCB profile. Through that profile, the traveller will be offered different products according to his profile when purchasing his ticket. The option Ticket and Multi will also be offered, so that the traveller can choose the best option. Part of that already meets the question of what kind of person is the best option. I have already answered the question about price differentiation between the different sales channels in a previous committee meeting. SNCB points out that price differentiation between sales channels has become more of a trend than an exception, not only for the transport sector. Digital tickets are cheaper for a company. So it seems to me normal to pass that reduction on to the users. The current covid crisis has, of course, also accelerated the development of no cash and online alternatives. It is indeed necessary and important to keep the non-digital tickets at an attractive rate. As far as I am concerned, this is also a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u117	Minister, you clearly said that you do not share the iron logic of using an additional price for those who choose the fastest option and want to reform that system. I am pleased that solutions are being sought in the short term to enable travellers to choose the best fare. In the longer term, however, the tariff system needs to be reformed in a more fundamental way. I agree that it needs to be made more logical and simpler.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u118	In your reply, Minister, you emphasise your commitment to offer the traveller more comfort. A ticket that can be purchased at the lowest possible price also contributes to the comfort of travellers. Simplifying the choice path for passengers also contributes to their comfort. The novelty you mention, I did not know yet but a My SNCB profile where one can indicate what best fits the personal profile, is certainly a step in the right direction. I also understand the price differentiation of the different platforms and that this also happens in other places. What we may have to consider in the context of the new public service contract is the conditions for reimbursement. I understand that a difference in the ticket price is passed on, but that a particular ticket is refunded until the day of departure and another ticket is not, is worth a debate. Again, I am very pleased that you are committed to improving the comfort of the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u119	Colleagues, contrary to what Mr Roggeman said earlier, Mr Raskin's questions are not transformed into written questions but postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u120	Mr. Chair, isn't it the minister who can choose to turn a question into a written question? Mr. Roggeman was asking me for flight data. If he hears us, he can still speak. The easiest thing to do is to reply in writing. The answer is complete, containing the hours of the flights. There was a polemic about that at the last meeting. I have the information now and I can give it to you. I asked for a written question last time, but the choice is free.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u121	Mr Roggeman left, but he informed the secretariat that Mr Raskin's questions were being postponed rather than converted into a written question. That's their choice. Mr. Roggeman's gone, so he won't answer us any more. A priori, his questions are postponed. If Mr Roggeman subsequently requests, via the committee secretariat, the conversion into written questions, it is still possible. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Colebunders converted 55012587C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u122	Mr President, Minister, within the framework of the Regional ExpressNet, the RER, the opening of the former training station Schaerbeek-Josaphat was planned in a wider framework which has been discussed several times in this committee. In that case, Evere's nearby station would disappear. Like the Regional ExpressNet as a whole, it has been programmed for a long time, but what is the current state of affairs? Is this change still on the schedule? If so, what cost estimate will that entail? I suggest that you reply in writing. When would the change between the two stations be scheduled if it were still taking place? If it were no longer to take place, I would like to know the reasons for this and if there is an alternative on the planning agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u123	As far as the GEN is concerned, as on many other issues, I want to go as quickly and as far as possible. We will use every opportunity to strengthen and improve the train offer. In the meantime, the GEN Steering Group has resumed its work on my initiative, under an excellent chairman and with very sympathetic and hard-working members. In addition, SNCB informs me that the planning documents, supported by the guidelines of the Brussels-Capital Region, mention the redesign of the platforms at Evere station. The current stop Evere, located near the bridge in the August De Boeckstraat, is being redeveloped to allow access on both the side of Schaerbeek-Josaphat and the side of Evere. To this end, the platform will be moved to the periphery, to the south of this bridge. It is therefore a redevelopment of the existing platform, with a new access on both sides of the bridge. All these works were studied for many years within SNCB, as well as budgeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u124	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u125	Minister, recently Infrabel cut 100 trees along line 50A in Sint-Denijs-Westrem, in my home town of Ghent. That was a green buffer between the neighbors and the trail and unannounced those trees were suddenly cut down. In a reaction, Infrabel stated that it can do whatever it wants on its own grounds up to 20 meters from the track, for the sake of rail safety. If we have to cut down for safety reasons, we can do so, we do not need a permit. For the locals and the city council, that is less pleasant. They complain that such drastic intervention, which nevertheless has an impact on the people living near the railroad, happened without any consultation. This does not seem to be an isolated case. I have just plowed through the media and also in Leuven, Kortrijk, Kessel, Ukkel, Houthalen, Ternat, Linkebeek and many other places the same has happened. The modus operandi is always the same: complete bald cover without consultation, with safety as an argument. This, of course, encounters incomprehension among local administrators and local residents. On the Infrabel website I found a beautiful brochure about environmental policy. It talks about ecological berm management and stakeholder consultation. If I compare this with what happened in practice in Ghent and elsewhere, I see a deep gap. Of course, rail safety is always paramount, let us be clear, but it must be possible to achieve this in a more balanced way, to reconcile this better with the maintenance of greenery and to do so in good consultation with those living along the railway line. What do you think of the way Infrabel handles greenery, as along the 50A railway in Sint-Denijs-Westrem? Are you willing to agree a more balanced form of greening at Infrabel, with more space for consultation and an eye for nature conservation? What steps will you take to achieve this? How many hectares of green is Infrabel currently managing? Is there a vision for the approach to green and berm management at Infrabel? Does the approach outlined above fit in with this vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u126	Mr Vandenbroucke, I am glad that you are asking me this question. The government agreement states that public enterprises must set a good example in all areas. With my background and interests, you will understand that I certainly expect this to be the case in terms of sustainability and environmental protection. With regard to the specific situation of the Sint-Denieslaan in Ghent, Infrabel confirms that the trees had to be cut down for safety reasons. A hundred trees were removed on the talud and in the railroad. Some were already 15 to 20 meters high, others had died and were very skewed, in the immediate vicinity of the tracks of line 50A, one of the busiest railway lines in our country. Infrabel has informed me that they were under the assumption that no permit was needed as they remained within the zone up to 20 meters from the track. In retrospect, however, it turned out to be necessary for one zone to have a clearing permit. On the plans of Infrabel, however, this zone was not coloured as a nature reserve. Infrabel confirmed his mistake, the company will learn lessons from this and update its plans. Infrabel has in the meantime established itself as a rule and applied for the necessary authorisation retroactively. I have informed the management of the infrastructure manager that I am not satisfied with this and that I will not accept such extensions in the future. It is true that Infrabel is responsible for the maintenance and management of railway infrastructure. This includes the management of the roadsides and adjacent areas next to the tracks. From the point of view of rail safety, it is necessary to carry out regular pruning operations so that the vegetation does not become too extensive next to the tracks and thus poses a danger to rail traffic. Infrabel also assures me to take into account as much as possible the ecological and aesthetic value of the verges, for example in nature reserves, very important for biodiversity. Infrabel claims to be aware of the value of the fauna, flora and biodiversity along the railway lines. The infrastructure manager has therefore developed a number of actions, taking into account local conditions: the optimisation of the vegetation management of new projects; ecological berm management projects; a protection programme for specific plants and animal species, in consultation with regional authorities, for example the mouse, the hazel mouse, the ring hose, the sand lizard, the white orchid; cooperation with partners for nature management, sheep grazing, flower meadows, soil cover, hardwood management; planting of hedges; nature management plans, an ecological study and an action plan for invasive species. I will not fail to address Infrabel further on these points.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The final part on the action plan and cooperation with conservationists sounds very good. I'm just finding that in Ghent everything has been completely removed and cut down. That doesn't match what you just said. I am not a specialist but there is still a very grey or better green zone between all the trees and the pruning of trees. I hope that there is a more nuanced approach. I am glad to hear you say clearly that you are no longer accepting the extension in Ghent, where trees are no longer to be redeployed in a nature reserve without a hairdressing permit. If a citizen did that, he'd have a heavy fine hanging over his head. I note that Infrabel has the opportunity to apply for a licence afterwards. This cannot be repeated, Minister. We shall certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u128	Question No 55012624C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u129	Mr Minister, Vias recently communicated a large-scale survey showing that 6% of Belgian drivers admit to driving even 1 out of 7 drivers after inhaling nitrous oxide. Lachgas, like other drugs, has a negative impact on the ability to drive, with all the risks associated with it. The possession of nitrous oxide is not prohibited. It is also annoying that nitrous oxide cannot be detected with a test. The police can only determine on the basis of external signs that they are in a state of drunkenness or in any case do not have the skills to drive a vehicle safely. Both Vias and the Antitoxin Center advocate greater awareness. What conclusions do you draw from the Vias survey? What initiatives have you taken to make the public aware of the risks associated with the use of nitrous oxide in traffic? How do you deal with these risks? Are you planning additional awareness actions or other initiatives on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u130	Mr President, nitrous oxide has almost the same effect as alcohol. It is therefore important that we pay attention to this. Is there a plan to deal with the abuse of nitrous oxide in traffic and beyond? Is there a derailment campaign already going on? Is there a test to detect the use of nitrous oxide abroad today? Is it developing? Is the use of nitrous oxide a national or international phenomenon? Do you have a visual on that through the FPS Mobility? What measures will you take to tackle this new social problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u131	Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Vindevoghel, it can only be observed that new types of equipment are being used each time. Now it says nitrous oxide in the picture, but it might as well have been about other volatile sniffing agents, such as ether. It's waiting for the next craze, not to mention synthetic drugs, especially in corona times. The creativity of people who are looking for a mind-expanding experience has no limits, just like the chemical possibilities that lend themselves to it. Vias Institute's survey shows that the use of nitrous oxide is in most cases combined with other drugs, which is particularly detrimental to road safety. However, it makes enforcement somewhat easier, as drivers are likely to find traces of alcohol or drugs. Users of nitrous oxide will not escape the dance soon. If it is a simple use of nitrous oxide, it can also be punished, as you rightly point out in your question. The National Institute of Criminalism and Criminology informs me that nitrous oxide cannot be detected with the saliva test. A method for the detection of nitrous oxide in blood by mass spectrometric techniques in the laboratory has been described in the literature, but this is about overdoses. The difficulty with nitrous oxide is that it is eliminated very quickly from the body and is therefore difficult or almost impossible to trace. My administration does not have information on the international approach to the phenomenon. Since it is a product that is hardly traceable in the organism, it can only be based on self-reporting, as in the Vias survey. Because such phenomena are usually not blocked by borders, I assume that the situation in our neighbouring countries will not differ so much from that in Belgium, unfortunately. To answer Mr. Parent's attached question, I believe the first thing to do is to raise awareness. As a relatively recent phenomenon, occasional or regular consumers of hilarious gases may not yet be well aware that the consequences of this practice can be dramatic for their future health and that it is far from harmless for their ability to drive. If its euphoric effect is limited in time, the dizziness it causes can last several hours. But this awareness is, above all, the responsibility of the Regions, according to the distribution of competences in our country. These people must also realize that they can be controlled and sentenced for driving under the influence of hilarious gas because driving in a state similar to drunkenness is already being continued today. I have asked my administration to contact the Traffic Centrex in order to determine the best way for the police to address this issue during drug or alcohol checks, on the understanding that hilarious gas is not easily detectable a posteriori. However, the efforts to programme at the level of controls depend on my colleague from the Interior and my colleague from the Justice Department, whom I invite you to question as well. I will also do so when I have the opportunity to do so in bilateral contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u132	Thank you for your very interesting answer, Minister, while Joe Biden has taken the oath as the new President of the United States. So we can laugh again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u133	Including record of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u134	It's good to have a discussion. Sensitisation will be important. If, as you say, it is very difficult to trace, then we will have to work on a prevention policy in particular. There's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u135	Question No 55012669C by Mr Parent is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u136	Mr Minister, in this committee we have often talked about the night trains and our nostalgic colleague, Mr Vindevoghel, has talked on several occasions about the re-introducing of the postal trains. I'd like to talk about the car trains, but that doesn't reinvent the hot water. As part of the European Year of Railways, which Mr Buyst mentioned earlier, the European Committee of the Regions addressed a question to the European Commission to focus on the possible re-launch of the car train with a view to sustainable tourism. We all remember the car sleep trains from Denderleeuw and the Liège Bressoux, which offered some extra charm. I have the following questions, Minister. What vision do you have on this? Have any questions or suggestions from EU institutions, such as the European Committee of the Regions, been sent to your cabinet in this context? Are there any specific questions from the tourism sector in our country, but especially from other EU countries or final destinations? If so, which one? Are there any questions or suggestions from the freight operators about this, as they obviously have the equipment and knowledge about the transport of cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u137	Mr De Spiegeleer, I naturally agree with you that the train is an ideal transport mode in the pursuit of a more sustainable transport policy. I have said this a few times, and I am doing my best to put it into practice. I am pleased to note that the European Commission shares this view, both in its Green Deal and in the initiative to make this year the European Year of Railways. Sustainable tourism requires a modal shift to rail, with the use of better international connections with high-speed trains and night trains. The train has not been the subject of discussions with our European partners. There is, of course, cooperation at European level on an international train network. A good European network could provide an alternative to short-haul flights for both professional trips and, for example, a city trip or a holiday. In this context, it seems to me more appropriate to devote energy to the big picture, rather than to a specific niche product such as car trains, which does not mean that we will assist the potential candidates as best as possible in their plans if a commercial initiative for car trains is to be launched in the future. From the tourism sector in our country or abroad we have not yet received any signals that there is interest in that product. Also in my contacts with freight transport operators, this issue has not emerged as an opportunity to expand their activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u138	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'll follow it up. I would have thought and hoped to have the last word today, but Mr Francken is throwing soot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u139	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, the last question for today concerns the Vilvoorde station. Vilvoorde has been run for several years by Hans Bonte, a colleague of socialist signature and a good mayor. Vilvoorde is not an easy city. It is a beautiful city with a beautiful culture and history. Jean-Luc Dehaene was the most famous mayor of Vilvoorde and we used to have very well-known politicians in Vilvoorde, such as Willy Courtois, Assita Kanko and now Sammy Mahdi. Jessica Soors of your party is also from Vilvoorde. Unfortunately, it has left politics at national level. I thought she was an asset. Vilvoorde is therefore a city where there is plenty to do around and I can recommend a visit to our beautiful city in the heart of Flemish Brabant. However, one of the pitfalls in Vilvoorde is the station that is in poor condition. All the politicians in Vilvoorde have already tried to improve this, but it is still not better. I think it would be a really good signal if we could freshen up the station and not just because of Vilvoorde's not always positive image. We have had Syrian fighters, a lot of migration and a lot of multicultural problems there. A station is an important sign. Bergen station was renewed, as was the station of Leuven. A station is an important place and when an international traveler gets off at a dirty and ugly station, he already wonders what the rest will give. I call on you to finally tackle the Vilvoorde station and I think that your fellow Secretary of State Mahdi, the mayor and many others can only agree with me. So, Minister, my question is: what are your plans for Vilvoorde station?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u140	Mr President, Mr Francken, I agree with you that the station in Vilvoorde is not in the best condition. I visited it with my excellent colleague from Vilvoorde, Mrs Soors. It is therefore good to note that SNCB and the city of Vilvoorde are jointly setting up a project in this context for the works at the station. Both are in close consultation on the different steps. SNCB expects the new underpass of Vilvoorde station to be completed by the end of 2021. The remaining works on the platforms, the existing underpass and the escalators will be completed by 2024. In addition, it is planned to start construction of new bicycle sheds in 2021 and the reconstruction of the railway station square. This too is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u141	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister. It is important that Vilvoorde is really tackled, because it is a symbol of the remote infrastructure of SNCB in our province. There's a lot of SNCB's plans. I will question you for every city in Flemish Brabant. You will get a question about each station and city, especially in writing. I will not bother you every week with oral questions, no problem, it will be done in writing. I would like to take advantage of Vilvoorde, Mr President, because Vilvoorde is a symbol. Vilvoorde is a symbol of deterioration, of how a station really shouldn't be. Vilvoorde also has many problems such as youth crime, Syria fighters, drug traffic. I think Mr. Bonte, as mayor, really does his best to fight it every day. That's how I know him. That's how I appreciate him. I must say that there is still work to be done. Let me be clear: a clean station, a beautiful infrastructure and architecture create fewer problems and give a very beautiful image to a city. I am pleased to hear you say that this year the underpass will be addressed, that the renovation of new bicycle sheds will begin next year and that the platforms will also be tackled in 2024. I think that's pretty late. So I would like to ask you whether it is not possible to look at the Vilvoorde project earlier with your colleagues and officials, to really use Vilvoorde as a flagship in Flemish Brabant, as an example of a beautiful city with a beautiful SNCB station. That would be fantastic. That's my dream. I notice that you have visited the station and know that it is a problem that you want to work on. I hope so with you. We're going to work on that. You have the support of the largest party and the largest group in the Chamber, the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic344x.u142	With the best wishes for our former colleague Hans Bonte.
