ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u1	Mr President, from 11 to 15 October the first part of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (COP15) was held. The second part of COP15 will be held in Kunming, China, from 25 April to 8 May 2022. The Kunming Declaration adopted on 13 October 2021 mentions the desire to "intensify actions to reduce the negative effects of human activities on the ocean, to protect marine and coastal biodiversity and to strengthen the resilience of marine and coastal ecosystems to climate change". This declaration is an impetus for the adoption of an ambitious global framework for the protection of biodiversity beyond 2020 – a framework that should determine how the target of 30 per cent protection of the oceans by 2030 will be achieved. Mr Minister, can we now get more information about the nature of the actions envisaged to reduce the impacts of human activities on the ocean I have just mentioned? Can we be informed about the state of negotiations to achieve the target of 30 per cent protection of the oceans by 2030? We know that the second part of this COP should be a decisive event to that end. Can we be informed of the schedule of negotiations by the time this event takes place? Can you tell us what our country's requirements are for the elements of the global biodiversity framework that will lead to achieving this goal – in particular, the elements that determine the nature of the protection of marine areas? On May 25, you told us "want highly protected areas with measurable indicators and follow-up." Can we learn more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u2	Mr Senesael, thank you for your questions. The COP's opening session on biodiversity – in other words, COP15 – took place recently in Kunming. The objective is now to begin negotiations to finalize the global biodiversity framework for the Convention on Biological Diversity for the post-2020 period. The draft framework currently includes 21 objectives that focus, among other things, on oceans-related priorities. In the negotiations, Belgium wishes to focus in particular on the following three points: firstly, to reduce and avoid marine pollution, including plastic waste, microplastics, nutrients, pesticides, endocrine and pharmaceutical disruptors and underwater noise pollution; secondly, to establish the link between climate change and the ocean. The ocean is a victim of climate change, but it is also a tool to combat it; thirdly, we target 30% of marine protected areas, including on the high seas, with a focus on quality rather than quantity. In this context, our objective is to achieve high protection, effective management, and not measures that are only good on paper. With regard to your second question, the Kunming Declaration is a political declaration that lays the foundation for the further development of the global biodiversity framework beyond 2020. This framework is in fact a strategic plan whose concrete implementation is negotiated within the working group called the Open-ended Working Group on the Global Biodiversity Framework beyond 2020. This working group, led by two co-chairs – MM. Francis Ogwal of Uganda and Basile Van Havre of Canada – have already met three times. The next session of this working group is scheduled for January 2022 in Geneva. Meanwhile, Belgium continues to stress the importance of adopting a 30x30 target, particularly within the framework of the Blue Leaders alliance, and organises a campaign on this subject through social networks and digital mobilising events. For example, on November 5, at COP26 Oceans Day in Glasgow, I will be hosting a high-level side event, at which a new Blue Leaders Declaration will also be signed, in which we reiterate our call for the creation of a network of marine protected areas, which will effectively and fully protect 30% of the oceans by 2030. Indeed, if we are to achieve our goal, this issue must remain at the forefront of our priorities. To answer your third question, the adoption of the target to protect 30 per cent of the marine zone is, for me, a top priority, not only for the waters under national jurisdiction, but also for those outside it (high seas and seabed). Beyond national jurisdiction, there is currently no global system for the establishment of marine protected areas. This issue is part of the negotiation for a new agreement called the BBNG Agreement. Finalizing these approaches is therefore the second objective of the Blue Leaders. Without this agreement, it will be impossible to reach 30% of highly protected marine areas. In concrete terms, we need the BBNG agreement to designate marine protected areas on the high seas. Through the Global Framework for Diversity and the Convention on Biological Diversity, we set the target of ensuring 30 per cent protection by 2030. What is important, ladies and gentlemen, is that once these areas are established, they are also effectively protected with concrete management plans to be implemented and monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your answers, which, however, call for some comments and reflections. First of all, we can endorse the three priority objectives that you mentioned and which will be defended during the second Kunming session, which will take place from 25 April to 8 May next. Indeed, these three objectives are linked to the declaration adopted by the Inter-Parliamentary Group for COP26 on climate change and oceans, with, of course, the 30% of marine protected areas, and above all the need to avoid the reduction of the marine population by different materials, be it plastics or endocrine disruptors. In any case, I welcome the development of this framework that will frame biodiversity with the 30X30 objective and, in particular, the emphasis on awareness-raising and awareness-raising. You gave as an example the day of November 5. This seems to me to be a good initiative to make the priorities that you have defined accessible to the general public as widely as possible. Finally, choosing areas is a respectable ambition, but once these areas are chosen, concrete plans must be made to protect them. This is the direction we commit you to take, for the 30% that must meet the 2030 target. All this is being done well to meet the stated objectives. Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u4	Mr President, Minister, from 3 to 11 September 2021 the World Congress of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) was held in Marseilles. At the Congress, a motion was adopted calling on Member States to support and implement "the adoption of regulations on seabed mining for exploitation, including regulations on exploitation by the International Seabed Authority (ISA)", as well as "promoting the reform of ISA to ensure transparent, responsible, inclusive, effective and environmentally sound decision-making and regulation". I had the privilege of being able to speak during this session on the exploitation of the seabed. Minister, on 25 May 2021, you told us your objective of dealing with the draft revision of Belgian legislation on seabed mining in Parliament before the end of the year, after consultation with stakeholders. Can we be informed about this? In particular, you mentioned your wish to put the company GSR and Greenpeace around the table with you on this file. Can we know whether this meeting took place and, if so, have you come back to it? By 2023, ISA is expected to establish a code defining the rules for the exploitation of the deep seabed. Also on 25 May, you informed us of our country's proposals to include marine biologists and environmental scientists in the ISA Legal and Technical Committee for the approval of applications for an operating contract, an assessment by independent experts in conjunction with the public consultation. Can we get more information on the treatment that has been made of these proposals within ISA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u5	Minister, in 2012 our country launched as a sponsoring state in the activity of deep-sea mining, along with Global Sea Mineral Resources (GSR). Belgium thus clearly drew the map of the linear economy and not that of the circular economy. We have discussed several times that deep-sea mining has devastating effects on the deep-sea ecosystem. However, it appears that Belgium has never organised the necessary public survey for this significant environmental decision. However, this is mandatory under the Aarhus Convention. Why didn't Belgium have that public survey carried out? What will you do to correct that and to re-establish compliance with the Aarhus Convention in Belgium? What is the status of the revision of the Belgian law on deep-sea mining?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Daems, Mr Senesael, the revision of the law on seabed mining on which I worked with the Minister of Economy was submitted to the Regions for their opinion. In the meantime, the draft text has been the subject of extensive discussions with the sector and NGOs that have had the opportunity to submit written comments until mid-October. All comments and opinions will then be dealt with. The draft will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval with a view to introducing it into Parliament. In addition, my staff have also had separate consultations with stakeholders, including Greenpeace and GSR, and a first joint meeting will be organised in the coming weeks. This consultation also involves scientists from the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences and Ghent University. Mr Senesael, I said last May that, with regard to the process of approving applications for exploitation, Belgium had drawn up a proposal for an assessment and an opinion of independent experts which would take place in parallel with the public consultation. This method of work should make it possible to make thoughtful decisions, in particular to protect the marine environment. In addition, we are still in favour of the inclusion of marine biologists and environmental scientists in the Legal and Technical Committee. The crisis of the Covid-19 prevented the Assembly and the Council of the International Seabed Authority from meeting physically. The rigid working method within the International Authority states, inter alia, that meetings of the Council should be held in Jamaica, which means that no further discussions have been held remotely. Our proposals are maintained. It goes without saying that we will only be able to reiterate and defend them once the negotiations have resumed. In 2023, when Belgium itself sits on the Council, we will be able to defend this proposal with even greater vigour. For your first question, Mrs Daems, whether a public consultation should be organised for the award of the sponsor certificate in 2012 and why this did not happen, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Economy. On your second question, which concerns the future, I can tell you that the new legislation on deep-sea mining currently being prepared provides that any application for a sponsor certificate for an exploration activity will have to be preceded by a public consultation. This will, of course, also be the case for applications relating to an operating activity. In this way, we ensure a broad application of the Aarhus Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the draft revision of the legislation, I am pleased to note that what you announced in Parliament on 25 May 2021 has had the desired effect. NGOs were due to submit their comments by mid-October, and that was done. The Regions received the text for opinion and a joint meeting was organised with Greenpeace. So all this corresponds to what you told us at the time. On the second question, the covid crisis is often used to tell us that delays have been recorded. As the physical meeting is in order, I can understand that the opinion of the experts could not be obtained. You say that in 2023, you hope to have more strength. I hope so too, but I hope that I do not have to wait until 2023 for significant progress on this issue which is of great interest to us. Thank you in advance for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u8	For us, it is clear: Belgium must correct this capital error and still organise a public inquiry under Article 7 of the Aarhus Convention about the decision to participate as a sponsor state in the activity of deep-sea mining, especially when Belgium would adopt aid for exploitation. I am pleased to hear that you will do so in the future. On such crucial policy steps, the people must be able to make their say so that the policy can be changed. It is clear that a change of course is needed. It is not the case that we have to choose between, on the one hand, tackling the climate challenge by destroying the ocean floor in order to extract all the rare raw materials and, on the other hand, leaving the ocean floor intact, but not having enough raw materials to face the climate challenge. That's a false choice. We can now fully opt for the circular economy. If all cycles are closed, there will be plenty of raw materials and we will not have to destroy ecosystems for mining anywhere on Earth. That's a clear choice. The question remains whether Vivaldi chooses the circular economy of the future or whether it remains stuck in the linear economy of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u9	Mr President, Minister, last Friday we learned that the Council of Ministers had approved the plan to increase the capacity of offshore wind farms from 3.2 to 3.5 GW, through the development of a new offshore area, Princess Elisabeth. The capacity of offshore wind turbines should be increased from 2.2 to 5.8 GW, which would represent a quarter of the total electricity generation, which we can obviously rejoice at. However, I have four questions for you. Mr Minister, initially, the development of the Princess Elisabeth area was intended to achieve the target of 4 GW, which was lower than the target decided last Friday. Can you tell us what conditions allowed this objective to be enhanced? In your general policy note, you indicated that market-compliant legislation would be developed within the Offshore tending task force, in consultation with the Minister of Energy, in order to put the new areas on the market to achieve the target of 4 GW. Can you inform us of the achievements in this regard? Can we obtain further information on the proposed financial mechanism? In your policy note, you mentioned that "by 2030, the offshore wind industry could generate up to 16,000 new jobs in research, development, construction of maritime foundations and transformer platforms, installation of wind turbines and management of wind farm maintenance". Given the enhanced objective adopted in the Council of Ministers, is this estimate still valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u10	Mr President, Minister, it is now well known that greater capacity is being planned in the North Sea, which could achieve a total of 5.8 GW. At the same time, in a recent opinion, the CREG highlighted this and indicated that the optimum density was much lower. She talks about just over 5 MW per square kilometre for 15 MW mills. Now one strives for a density that is twice as high. The CREG therefore points out that this has an impact on the cost of electricity for this purpose, the so-called LCOE. A EnergyVille webinar also highlighted the complex planning and the specific framework conditions that need to be attached to it. The sector itself has also pointed this out. This concerns inter alia the compatibility with other functions. The Minister indicated in March that some conditions must indeed be met. You also agreed to this at the time. In view of the fact that these other functions belong both to the federal and to the Flemish powers, the question arises as to what conditions will be fulfilled in practice. What is the effect of this high density on the support cost and the link with the LCOE, knowing that there is also a study of the CREG in addition to the 3E study? What conditions are attached to this scaling-up? Which parties were interviewed about this? In March, both you and Minister Van der Straeten indicated that this was absolutely necessary, so we are curious. Is there a link with the Flemish Region for a number of functions they manage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u11	Mr President, Minister, as has been pointed out, we have already had a debate this morning on the creation of the energy island and the extension of the offshore park in the North Sea. I fully agree with the questions put by the colleagues and I will sum them up. Minister, you are a little familiar with this subject, since you were chairman of the Energy Committee under the previous legislature. At the time, I was in charge of the matter and we had the opportunity to come with the project to expand the areas on which wind turbines can be placed in the North Sea and a legislative framework that allows us to launch public procurement in order to have the lowest possible cost, if not zero. That is precisely what we are concerned about, since there are various studies. You rely on the 3E study we would like to have the copy of in order to be able to analyze it. We are now familiar with the Plan Bureau's study and we know that the CREG has also given an opinion on this matter. The bottom line is that, under the previous legislature, with my colleague, Philippe De Backer, we had managed to negotiate with the offshore parks that are currently installed in the North Sea for a capacity of 2.2 GW, a very dramatic decrease in support of 4 billion euros, which shows that there is a way to calculate the support as closely as possible. With this expansion of capacity in a territory which, on the one hand, will not extend because the North Sea is not extensible, but perhaps with wind turbines that will be more efficient, there will be problematic effects in terms of performance, as wind turbines will be forced into an extremely restricted environment and price effects that will be to be considered and calculated. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. Since this is a debate, I would like to add a question. My first question was to worry about the effect of these high-performance wind turbines on the climate. On the other hand, I would like to know whether there are any environmental effects to be considered at the North Sea level. I'm very attentive to the answers you're going to give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u12	Mr President, I can answer Mr Senesael's first question as follows. The National Energy and Climate Plan included the ambition to double the offshore capacity with the development of the Princess Elisabeth Zone to 4 GW. Based on a study I ordered with my colleague, the Minister for Energy, it now becomes clear that capacity can be further increased from 2.1 GW to 3.15 GW to 3.5 GW. An important reason for this is the rapid development on offshore markets. While windmills were installed in the first zone from 3.5 to 9.5 MW, windmills are now being developed that can generate 15 to 17 MW. In addition, we have only one small maritime area, namely 1,545 km2, and the areas planned for renewable energy must be used optimally, taking into account natural values. Thus, by using a range to increase capacity, we retain the flexibility necessary to preserve protected habitats. Mr Senesael, with regard to your second question, the Offshore tendering Task Force, which brings together representatives of Elia, the CREG and the relevant administrations as well as the collaborators of the Minister of Energy and myself, is currently preparing for the placing on the market of the Princess Elisabeth area. In 2019, an amendment was made to the Electricity Act under which new renewable energy projects in the Belgian North Sea will now be tendered. By using a tendering procedure, placing larger plots on the market and carrying out the necessary technical and natural studies on behalf of the State, we can significantly reduce the cost of developing renewable energies at sea. In 2022, not only will the number and size of parcels be determined, but the regulatory framework for the tendering and licensing process will also be developed. In addition, the Government will also decide on the support mechanism to be notified to the European Commission. The aim is to be able to organise the first call for tenders in 2023. With regard to your third question on the financing mechanism, the current administration leaves all the possibilities open, including the granting of subsidies, the conclusion of a contract on the difference (two-sided contract for difference) – under which a fixed price is agreed with the winner of the tender and the State receives money in return if the price of electricity is high or has to pay out of its pocket if the price of electricity is lower – and a zero offer where the potential bidder will build the wind farm without any subsidy. A recent opinion from CREG recommended that the federal government abandon fixed subsidies and opt for the difference contract. However, we have seen that in Germany and the Netherlands the first parks will be built without subsidies. I would like to continue in this direction so that it can benefit from the electricity bill. Mr Wollants, as regards your first question on the impact of the high density on the support cost linked to the LCOE, it is true that the high support costs paid by Belgium for the wind farms in the first offshore zone were mainly due to the higher density of the parks compared to our neighbouring countries. This is also the reason why in 2018 the government decided to reduce the price for future parks by opting for larger lots and lower density. For a capacity of 2.1 GW, a density of 7.5 MW per square kilometre was foreseen. In the current situation, which aims to increase capacity from 5.3 GW to 5.8 GW, a density of 12.5 MW per square kilometre is envisaged. The 3E study, which examined the economic feasibility of the capacity increase, states that the increase in capacity and density increases the LCOE by less than 5%. I come to your second question, which was also asked by Mrs Marghem. Of course, there are some preconditions attached to this scaling-up. For example, the study only examines the economic feasibility of the increase in capacity, without taking into account the technical feasibility. The CREG also points out this in its opinion. After all, if the turbines are too close together, large turbulences can occur. Turbine suppliers can therefore reduce or prescribe guarantees to shut down turbines from a certain wind speed. These elements can also have an increasing effect on the LCOE. Furthermore, and I also refer to Mrs Marghem's question, we must not forget that a large part of the wind turbines will be built in a natural area and will require an environmental permit and a Natura 2000 permit. Here, too, the environmental impact will be assessed as part of the environmental permit procedures. As I have just said, we will address this problem by working with a range of 3.15 to 3.5 GW in order to maintain the flexibility needed to safeguard protected habitats. Mr Wollants, in addition to the discussion in the task force, consultations were held in the government and, of course, with the sector represented by the Belgian Offshore Platform. The Flemish Region is not currently involved in the talks, as capacity increases can be achieved without requiring additional grid reinforcement onshore. We will, of course, start discussions on this in the future, when this is necessary. Mr Senesael, these figures are based on a study commissioned by the Belgian Offshore Platform at the Climact independent consulting office. An update of this study is not available. It is clear that additional economic development activities will lead to additional employment. The blue economy is a growing sector in which we must commit ourselves fully. It is in the field of the blue economy that Belgium, as a small country, can show that it is able to achieve great things. Mrs Marghem, the effect of this facility on climate and winds has been measured. Given the size of the island, the system operator will also have to carry out the required environmental studies in order to be able to determine the preconditions for its construction. The impact of the island on the marine environment will be considered in the environmental impact assessment prepared as part of the environmental permit procedures. Depending on the location envisaged for the island, it may also be necessary to apply for a Natura 2000 permit. With regard to the climate impact, compared to the initial target of 2.1 GW, the increase in capacity represents an additional saving of just under 2 million tonnes of CO2 per year. The other advantages and disadvantages of the island are described in detail in the grid design project that Elia submitted to the Minister of Energy and myself yesterday. As for the cost of the island's design, the first estimates (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u13	Mr. Secretary, we couldn't hear you anymore and the statue stopped. Maybe we could try again? Maybe it'll help you log out and then log back in?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u14	I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u15	Here it appears that the Internet connection is unstable. I don't know if that's about ours or yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u16	With what I've heard, I think it's okay, but I'd like to read it again quietly. My question was mainly a question for information, but I think the Minister has already explained a great deal about the plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u17	I come back to my answer to Mrs Marghem's question. As for the cost of building the island, the first estimates estimate it between 450 and 650 million euros, depending on the location that will eventually be chosen, of which 100 million euros will come from the European Recovery Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u18	Minister, thank you for your specific and concrete answers. We can, of course, welcome the economic, environmental, climate and social implications of this project, since the increase in the number of jobs is not to displease us. We will thus respond to the ambitious development of this blue economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u19	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I think we have learned a few things from what we have heard from Minister Van der Straeten this morning. In view of the complexity of the matter, I think that our committee chairman's proposal for a more detailed discussion this morning would be a good idea. I also support the majority's request for the 3E study to be made available. I would also like to receive the opinion of the CREG on this study. I suppose the study was explained on an interkabinets working group. We are interested to be able to continue with this in detail. I think it's gonna be an important yard. Just as we have closely followed the CRM dossier in the past, including under your competent leadership as former chairman of the committee, it seems to me to be a good thing that we do the same for offshore energy, but with all the elements on the table, as majority members have already requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u20	Mr Wollants, I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u21	Minister, we appreciate you very much and we appreciate you even more when you are here. So next time, if you will, we would like you to be here, especially for such a complicated debate. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, it is important to have a much more interactive debate on these extremely complex issues, because I would not, Mr.Minister, like this to be an announcement effect for this government and that, logically ending in 2024, it is "after us flies". That is, the park, the energy island, the financial framework, the support and everything that accompanies it, since it is not a pilotable energy, will require a gas back up, despite the millions of tonnes of CO2 that will be saved thanks to this wind power in the North Sea. This gas back up must be calculated. All of this will come after your government. From the moment you are going to engage, for successive governments, a policy that can have very heavy financial impacts, you must have an open, transparent and technically thorough debate in every detail between us now. I therefore reiterate my request to have all the documents necessary for understanding and to hold, once these documents have been examined, an interactive commission in your presence, possibly with the Minister of Energy, either separately or together, so that we can discuss all the details of this new policy which we also support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u22	Mr Minister, I come from a committee that has come to an end and have not been able to hear your answer in full. I assume that you have answered my informative questions, because, of course, we are very excited about the plans you have announced, together with Minister Van der Straeten. If there is a need for further debate, we would like to be part of the party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u23	Mr President, the truth is that I did not answer all the questions put by Mr Verduyckt. I will send the answers to questions 2, 3, 4 and 5 by Mr Verduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u24	In committee, we need to strike a good balance between what is included in thematic debates, topical debates or oral questions, also knowing that we want to make a site visit next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u25	Mr President, I am not entirely sure that we have heard all the answers because of the technical problems. It may be a good idea to give the full answers to the secretariat, then we are sure that the report is complete. That makes the job of services a little easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u26	Mr President, I will do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u27	Minister, two public consultations on environmental policy in our North Sea were concluded on 30 September 2021. It may be too early to talk about the results, but do you know if there were a lot of advice coming in? How's the trial going? What's the timing? How can Parliament be involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u28	Public consultations were closed on 30 September. Five responses were received with regard to the Natura 2000 consultation and eight responses to the Marine Strategy Report. Most responses include both textual and substantive comments. At present, the comments are brought together and analysed by my services. It is important to ensure that the various documents are complementary in the processing of the reactions, so that an integrated environmental and nature policy can be pursued in the Belgian part of the North Sea. The final reports will then be drawn up in the coming weeks. As with any public consultation, a statement will also be drawn up indicating the extent to which the comments were incorporated in the final reports. This statement will be published on the website on which the documents were offered for consultation. I will approve the reports by the end of this year. These reports will then be submitted to the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy, in particular the North Sea and Oceans Steering Committee. Finally, the programme of measures for Belgian marine waters will also be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment in January 2022 for approval. Following final adoption, the reports and statements on the public consultation will be published. In March 2022, the Programme of Measures will be delivered to Europe. In addition to the opportunities offered by the participation procedure, Parliament will have an important role to play in the implementation and follow-up of the measures. As you know, in the coming months, I will submit a draft law revising the law on the protection of the marine environment. This law and its implementing decisions provide the framework for a sound and scientifically-based North Sea policy. It is within that framework that the necessary measures will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u29	In the list of investments that we were concerned with in the context of the last debate on the State of the Union and the budget, reference was made to a project to install solar panels in the North Sea. In itself, this was not entirely new, as it was already known at the beginning of September that the European Union would grant subsidies to the project of Oceans of Energy for 3 MW peak power to solar panels. Today there are many other partners in this project, including the POM West Flanders and a number of foreign universities and institutions. The federal government is now paying 1.5 million euros for the project. Is this on top of the funds already allocated by Europe totalling EUR 45 million? Is there any operating aid for such a project, as we have known in the past in the form of green electricity certificates? This is no longer foreseen in the legislation, which used to be the case. Is that what you're considering? In what way will the Oceans of Energy project be expanded with additional resources from the federal government? Will it provide more capacity than initially planned or will there be additional innovative elements in the project with that additional support? In addition to these resources, are there any plans for operating aid, or can you exclude them already?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u30	Oceans of Energy is a Dutch project, and only one of many projects that wants to develop floating solar panels. An innovative research project is also under way in Belgium, which is currently being developed with the support of VLAIO in the womb of the Blue Cluster. The project is called MPVAqua and will carry out a proof of concept in our North Sea before the summer of 2022. The biggest challenges for floating solar panels at sea are the development of special solar panel structures that can withstand the high sea waves and the construction of solar panels that are resistant to salt. It is also necessary to examine how to get the energy on land and research into the impact of these solar parks on the marine environment. In the next phase, it will be necessary to scale up such projects and work on large-scale demonstration projects with a view to future commercialisation. We are looking at how the federal resources can be used for this, possibly through cooperation with the Blue Cluster, so that our companies can continue to play a leading role in this future, promising market. As far as your second question is concerned, it is now premature to confirm or exclude any slopes. The most important thing is that the technology is further developed so that it can be deployed on a large scale. I am thinking primarily of the open spaces in the existing wind farms, which can thus be supplemented without hindering other users of the sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic602x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I referred to Oceans of Energy, because that company itself indicates that its project will be located in the Belgian North Sea. Are we talking about two different projects, both of which are being carried out in the North Sea? Where exactly are the differences between the two projects, in order to avoid the exact same testing on the same surface? A good division of labour can avoid the use of resources in a less efficient way. I understand from your answer to my second question that further research is needed. If, with this EUR 1.5 million, investment aid can be given in particular, which means that operating aid should no longer be granted, then that is a good thing. In the past, we have found that such operating aid is not always the best option in our region. That is why I have specifically mentioned this.
