ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we will try to clean up the 20 items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u2	Mr President, my questions relate to what is also the capital of my borough. It is true, Mr Secretary of State, that with the reform of the judicial landscape, it remains important to have a series of judicial services established in Verviers. The option also existed to keep a prison in Verviers, to be rebuilt on the site of the former prison in Verviers. This is an integral part of a budget called Masterplan III. My questions on this subject are many. First of all, when we talk about this extension, we know the problems of the current premises which host the judicial services in Verviers. Some are old-fashioned, others are very old-fashioned. Still others do not even allow justice to be done in adequate premises. My first request is to know how we intend to phase out the extension project in order to keep these services on the same site. My second question concerns the Verviers prison, for which reconstruction is planned at the same site. If I may, I would like to take stock with you of the phase of work to come. As we know, a lot was still to be done. These included expropriations necessary to form a perimeter around the compound of this new prison. My last question concerns a very important point which we were still talking about yesterday, Mr President. These are the archives of Verviers' legal services, which also had to find new accommodation. From what I read, Secretary of State, we would head to a location in a building in the centre of Verviers. When you come on site – and I know it may be soon – we will be able to realize that the centre of Verviers in particular needs a lot of dynamism, a new breath also for the traders. In this regard, I was wondering whether this issue of the movement of archives had already been definitively resolved. I did not stand up exactly to the question tabled, but I think we will find a good agreement, and I am already happy with your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u3	Secretary of State, you have the floor to tell us everything you know about Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u4	Mr President, I think I don't know everything about Verviers yet, but I will know soon! Madam Member, I am indeed looking forward to going to Verviers to identify all the issues at stake. The future of the Verviers courthouse as well as that of the future prison is of particular importance to us all, and certainly to you, Madam, I am well aware of that. I will also visit Verviers in the coming weeks to take stock of the issues and to be able to make a clear proposal in relation to all current needs. With regard to the former courthouse, a decision must be taken on the strategic options on the table today, namely either a renovation of the existing building or the construction of a new building on a site to be identified. This decision can only be taken after the Finance Inspectorate validates the Justice Needs Program. The track of the building on Rue de Dison, rented for the purposes of the FPS Finances, has been taken into account for the relocation of the justice offices. However, it will be further analysed, in consultation with the Justice FPS and the services occupying the courthouse, as soon as the Régie des Bâtiments has all the data to come from the Finance FPS. Meanwhile, the archives of the burning building located on Rue Crabaurue have found themselves relocating within the building located on rue Xhavee, rented by the Régie des Bâtiments since 2014 and for 15 years, and which currently houses the archives of the SPF Justice. A visit to the services of the Régie des Bâtiments revealed that of the 8.4 linear km available, only 3 km are currently used. In addition, 1 linear km can be moved to the cellars of the Prince of Wales Building, where archival spaces have recently been delivered by the Régie des Bâtiments to the SPF Justice. The 4 km of archives located in the burned property can be moved quickly to the building located on Xhavee Street. It is now up to the FPS Justice to move as soon as possible. With regard to the reconstruction of the prison in Verviers, the Régie des Bâtiments informs me that it is not aware of any change in the position of the municipal administration of Verviers in this matter as mentioned in your written question. What I can tell you at this stage and you will certainly not deny is that Masterplan III was approved in 2016 in the Council of Ministers and that it plans to build the new prison of Verviers on the site belonging to the Régie des Bâtiments, a site that has been expanded by expropriation of the houses paved by Heusy and rue des Coteaux, precisely to accommodate an establishment respecting the contemporary restriction. The demolition of the houses is under way and the legal and financial consultants who will support the work of the Régie des Bâtiments for the monitoring of the DBFM market have been appointed. The Régie des Bâtiments stands ready to begin the next steps, including the publication of the DBFM contract, provided that other priorities do not arise. Finally, the houses on Heusy's roadway have been demolished and the rest of the demolitions are continuing. Today, we must carry out an analysis in good intelligence with justice and look at the various avenues from the point of view of transparency, good management and efficiency. We all agree that it is high time to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for the clarity on some points, particularly with regard to the reconstruction of the prison; I am reassured because we heard and read a lot. This project has been under preparation for several years. It took a great deal of time to secure its funding. Starting with this, I am pleased to see that this project will continue as planned. As for the relocation of judicial services, it is a problem. I hear regularly, Mr. Secretary of State, that the Régie des Bâtiments struggles to find surfaces. I am surprised and wonder about the possibility of searching the centre of Verviers a little better. The goal is to maintain these judicial services in the city centre. We fought for this during the reform of the judicial landscape. If you know Verviers, you will find that the building rue de Dison is still quite eccentric. This can be interesting for finance. In any case, it was not the intention of the justice system to decentralize its services. I've got a few more leads I'd like to offer you. Maybe we'll talk about them on another occasion. In any case, thank you for your very clear and detailed answers, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, there are many projects in the direction of the Buildings. One is an internal transformation into a more efficient and, above all, more energy-efficient public authority. In the latest activity report of the Regie der Buildings, I read that she deliberately wants to focus on a climate policy. She also set up a project group for this purpose. The same applies to the federal re-launch plan. It pays a lot of attention to making the government heritage more energy efficient. I have a few questions about that. Can you give an overview of the economy of our buildings today? How many buildings are equipped with double glazing? How much more do we have to do with just glass? Which buildings are not sufficiently isolated? What types of heating are there? Are they already using sustainable heat sources? What about the EPC value of the patrimony? I am not asking you to call off this information, Mr Secretary of State. I therefore propose that you provide the data to the secretariat. Secondly, what is the status of the project group to implement the National Energy and Climate Plan? Should account also be taken of the storage of CO2 and hydrogen, including in the case of government heritage? What's going to happen there? Thirdly, what investments are planned from the federal relay plan to improve the energy efficiency of buildings under the control of the Buildings? I would like to have an overview of that. Fourthly, are you open to regularly explaining the state of the energy policy of the Government of the Buildings in our committee? After all, it is about one of the large yards within our government heritage. I'm looking at the United Kingdom. It provides for annual reporting on the subject of monitoring climate legislation. I think this could certainly be interesting as a regular item on the committee's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u7	The Buildings Directorate informs that it does not currently have up-to-date, centralised data on the technical installations, the envelope or the consumption of the buildings. However, as part of the implementation of the National Energy and Climate Plan at federal level, the Buildings Control will carry out an energy audit in each of these buildings by 2030. There are over 900 complexes of buildings. In addition, the Buildings Direction digitizes its measuring instruments through smart meters wherever possible. The Buildings Control does not have precise data on the production of renewable energy. So far, several initiatives have been taken, either by the residents, either by third parties or by the Regie, which do not allow the data to be centralized. However, the total capacity of photovoltaic installations with data available to the Buildings Management is, for example, about 6.2 MWp, including ongoing projects and financing by third parties. We do not yet have an EPC certificate for each of the buildings concerned. However, the Buildings Regulation helps the user services of public buildings falling within the scope of the EPC certificate for public buildings to comply with that obligation through framework agreements which it makes available to them. The NEKP Working Group is responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation of the NEKP within the Directorate of Buildings, but the departments are responsible for the implementation of projects, since all the professions of the Buildings Control are involved. Any new construction project launched by the Buildings Regie must meet certain requirements in the field of renewable energy production, without limitation in terms of the intended techniques. So we leave room for innovative techniques, whatever they may be. The buildings managed by the Government of the Buildings are not budgeted for the Ferry Plan. Nevertheless, the federal government has earmarked a budget of EUR 170 million for several projects to improve the energy performance of buildings owned by the State. As I have already mentioned, improving the administrative management of the Regie is a constant concern. Work is currently under way on the introduction of the new management instruments, which will undoubtedly contribute to achieving this objective. The Regie has implemented new asset management tools that will enable us to share data on energy consumption and EPC in the best possible way. We are committed to full transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I am somewhat surprised at the answer, because if I understand correctly, the Government of the Buildings does not know how much energy it consumes itself. We do not know how much renewable energy is produced by our own heritage. There's just no centralised data. How can priority investments be determined? I hear you say that the government is making EUR 170 million available for projects on improved energy performance. That is good, but how can we make a sound choice about the allocation of these funds? After all, we do not even know which buildings are energy efficient and which are not. That does not seem to me to be particularly trustworthy, quite the contrary. I can only hope that the planned energy audit of the buildings will provide effective speedy clarity. After all, we are talking about very large budgets, hundreds of millions of euros on an annual basis, which must be invested in buildings whose properties are not even known. This is also far from ideal for Parliament. We provide the Buildings Management with 800 million euros each year for its annual operating budget. Climate policy is one of the most important policy objectives, not only of the Government itself, but also of the Government, and it is therefore particularly regrettable that we cannot see the use of these resources and the state of the existing heritage. We can only hope that there will be effective improvement. I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u9	Mr. Secretary of State, on 4 October 2015, a royal decision came into force on the preparation of multi-annual plans for the real estate needs of the Buildings Regie. The Royal Decree requires the Government of the Buildings to draw up a multi-annual plan containing three elements: strategic intentions for a coordinated real estate strategy, master plans and an operational plan. Firstly, previous parliamentary questions have shown that several federal administrations are currently evaluating the impact of the corona crisis. This is logical, because telework is increasing everywhere and it is expected that this will not only remain temporary but will have a permanent effect. Since today is almost six years since the entry into force of this royal decree, I was wondering what is going on with the various plans to be prepared. The coordinated real estate strategy, the master plans and the operational plan were approved in 2015 or should have been adopted then. I would like to hear from you whether you can make the latest versions of these documents available to our Chambers Committee. Secondly, according to Article 5 of the Royal Decree, the strategic intentions of the Government of the Buildings must be updated every three years. This would mean that there was an update in 2018 and that there should also be a review this year, 2021. Can you confirm that this has happened, Mr Secretary of State? Can you confirm that you are currently working on an update, along with the Buildings Regie? Thirdly, several federal departments already indicated their preferences regarding the occupation of their heritage, of their buildings, and of their need for office space to be able to fully assume their functions. Have you already commissioned a study of the impact of the coronapandemic on the coordinated real estate strategy? Fourthly, in accordance with Article 12 of this Royal Decree, do you indeed report annually to the Council of Ministers on the realisation of the master plans and their actualization?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for your question. The coordinated strategic real estate plan or multi-annual investment plan can be compared with a compilation of the different master plans resulting from the strategic visions developed for each customer or department. Today, two types of master plans are being studied or prepared. On the one hand, there are master plans aimed at needs, such as the master plans for asylum, police and justice, and on the other hand master plans aimed at rationalising space, such as the master plan for Brussels. The ambition I want to give to these multi-annual investment plans is, on the one hand, to make them more transparent by applying a reading schedule that allows for a clear prioritisation of the objectives for the Buildings, the Government and Parliament and, on the other hand, to extend the vision over a longer period of 10 to 15 years. The new multi-annual investment plan, which my cabinet and the Buildings Administration are working on, will make it possible to link the ambition very clearly to the resources actually available. The reading and priority list that we are currently preparing, after validation by the Council of Ministers, will be presented here in this House. This instrument should give you and everyone a clear and transparent picture of the strategy of the Buildings Regie. As far as teleworking is concerned, the Board of Buildings has already analysed the impact of the health crisis on the occupation standard. Following the COVID-19 pandemic, the correction for teleworking in the occupation standard for 2018 has been modified to take into account the increasing extent of teleworking. The post-COVID-19 telework correction includes a two-day telework allowance for 80% of the VTEs. The COOVID-19 correction for telework has already been applied. It has been approved by the College of Presidents of the FPS and the ION's and is included in the coalition agreement. The correction for teleworking will have an impact on the space required, but these will only be real in the long term. The development of more and more spaces for a dynamic working environment and WOW requires a larger initial investment, taking into account a return on investment within a very acceptable time frame. Teleworking has no impact on office environments with a traditional layout. Some federal agencies cannot use a dynamic and WOW environment due to the nature of their services or the characteristics of the building concerned. Here, reducing space can only be achieved in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u11	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It seems obvious to me that the corona crisis also has an important impact on the office use of the Regie der Buildings itself. I am pleased to hear that the working group, which was launched eight months ago in the bosom of the Government of the Buildings, has completed its initial conclusions and analyses. You say that the long-term consequences are noticeable. I think this makes sense, since many public services were still facing a space shortage until before the corona crisis. The fact that this can be compensated is probably a good thing, but it would also be desirable for us to have a written vision of the future with a thorough analysis of the needs of the various services that today use the offer of the Buildings Regie, something that creates a long-term basis. After all, you say that the long-term impact will be felt, but we need to be able to adapt the planning accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I tabled this question in March, when it was possible to expect a secure access system to be completed on the Justice website in Liège. Moreover, it is a request of the SPF Justice to proceed in this way throughout its courthouses. On the same site, there was and is still part of the federal police. She had reported poor working conditions on the spot. The staff had even considered a notice of strike. For months, he has been asking for a solution in order to finally have adequate premises. I will come back to this in a later question, since we are waiting for the end of the Vottem project. Mr Secretary of State, has the well-known secure access system been put in place as planned? What are the next steps envisaged on the current Justice site in Liège? What is the evolution of the situation with regard to this dissatisfaction expressed by a part of the federal police on the spot?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, following the heavy showers of the last weeks and in particular of April, the oldest of the two judicial palaces in Liège, the Palace of the Princes Bishops, took the water. Located in the centre of the burning city, it is basically the most emblematic building in Liège. 120-litre blue containers had been placed on the first floor to avoid flooding. So you can imagine the apocalyptic situation. The Palace of the Princes Bishops houses courtrooms of the Court of Appeal and the Court of Assizes of Liège. The first president of the Court of Appeal, Luc Lambrecht, who has resigned since then, and who is not building manager, said that he was struggling to work in decent conditions. It is because of lack of resources that we face the closure of many justice buildings. We are witnessing a surreal scene, where Justice seeks shelter to do justice in our country. There was a time when Saint-Louis was doing justice under an oak, but we're not there anymore. Mr Secretary of State, I therefore come to my questions. First of all, could you inform us about the state of conservation of the former Palace of the Princes-Evêques of Liège? Does the Palace of the Princes-Evêques remain the courthouse of Liège? What is its current state of health? What are the current working conditions? What are the energy performance of this historic building? What is its short-, medium- and long-term future? What are the conditions for its possible restoration? Is there any reflection on his future assignment? For following up on this case a few years ago, I know that your predecessor in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Didier Reynders, was at the time concerned and had his services draw up a precise survey to have a projection of it in 3D. I don't know where this has been since. What are the budgets for this building and what are the estimated restoration budgets? For decades, we have been waiting for the renovation of the courthouse in Brussels; I welcome your action and that of the government in this area. In the same vein, what is the government's will to preserve this priceless historic gem in the heart of the city of Liège? When it comes to the renovation of the state buildings, you inherit two large construction sites!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u14	Mr President, the Member of Parliament, the Member of Parliament, the Liège courthouse is currently occupied by 95 % and is managed by two owners, namely the Walloon Region for the governor's provincial areas and hotels and by the Federal State for the areas occupied by the FPS Justice and the Federal Police. Thus, it houses the Court of Appeal and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The justice of the peace, the court of first instance and the prosecutor's office of the King are located in the northern annex. The company court, the labour court, the labour court, the labour auditorate and the general auditorate are listed in the southern annex. In view of this judicial presence and at this stage, I can assure you that the Palace of the Princes-Evêques remains the courthouse of Liège. To my knowledge, there are no plans for another assignment. With regard to the water damage we have experienced recently, according to information provided by the Régie des Bâtiments, the roofs are in good condition. However, in the event of heavy snow showers and congestion of the stormwater system, the phenomenon that has been experienced can occur. This phenomenon is amplified by the fact that stormwater discharge is carried out through the interior of the building and is hidden behind finishing elements. This method, which is clearly not recommended, makes it possible to release, for aesthetic reasons, the facades of the palace from apparent rainwater pipes. To remedy this, as a first step, the water disposal system in the area concerned will have to be inspected, rectified and adapted. In a second stage, the complete system of all roofs will have to be completely revised as part of the restoration of the entire building. In general, the condition of the building is indeed to be improved in order to preserve it, but also and above all in order to welcome justice and the justiciable in good conditions. Given the current state of the palace, a comprehensive and long-term vision must be defined in consultation with the Justice FPS. The cost of studies and works for the restoration of the façades of the entire building is estimated at around 20 million euros. For the restoration of the internal justice part, the costs are estimated at about 67 million euros. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Liège courthouse is not abandoned. In recent years, a number of works have been carried out. For example, since 2018, the Régie des Bâtiments has invested nearly 1,139 million euros for the conservation and renovation of certain parts of the building. Among these works, the security lock in the northern annex of the courthouse was put in place as planned. However, following the technical approval of the entire work, some adjustments are still to be made by the company before the final start-up. With regard to the move of the DAB and the evolution of the Vottem-related file, we will return to that. The strike notice was lifted and a transitional solution was found with the establishment of the DAB at the Saint-Gilles site in Liège. A series of work will be carried out in the coming months. This new location will become the main workspace of the staff of the DAB until their permanent integration in Vottem. Work on the first tranche at the Vottem site is planned for 2026 to 2030 and the second tranche for 2028 to 2032. If the current schedule is respected, all these buildings will be made available in 2032. To return to the Liège courthouse, we all agree that a global restoration seems necessary. I am well aware that this prestigious building must be subject to special attention regarding its general condition and the preservation of classified parts. Recent events are a demonstration of this. That is why I will travel next week to Liège to take the measure for myself of the needs associated with this historic building.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u15	Secretary of State, this former Princes-Evêques Palace is a magnificent building. You'll realize that. The need to bring all judicial services together at the same site in Liège was also the subject of a saga at the time until the said building was removed from the ground. It took more than forty years. I still have a vague memory. It is true that the old palace of the Princes-Evêques has great practical difficulties of functionality and security, but what necessity and symbol does it represent not only for the City of Liège but also for the whole province of Liège! From this point of view, Mr. Secretary of State, I am very reassured that you are taking this case with arms-the-body and that the Régie des Bâtiments – the State – continues to inject money to keep this building functional and keep it at its best. It's a challenge. One might also wonder where to go to find new financial means other than in the arsenal of the federal government's budget. I am thinking, for example, of European projects. We can always try. We have to ask ourselves how we can move this issue forward. Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to thank you for your reply to Vottem. I'll come back to it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u16	Mr. Secretary of State, I am quite pleased with your response and your announcement that you will be on the scene next week to see what is going on there. I think you will receive a warm welcome. The Liégeois have a head near the cap but they have a reputation for being warm. The terraces being reopened, and located close to the Princes-Evêques Palace, I warn you about this! It was a little piece of shit. More seriously, the Princes-Evêques Palace always fulfils, as you confirm, an essential role in delivering justice to citizens. What is more noble than to do justice to our fellow citizens? This task must be in line with its ambitions and this building must be used at its best. It is a prestigious historic heritage building. Some of its elements date back to the Middle Ages, others to the Renaissance, and others to the 18th century. In the provincial part, some elements date back to the 19th century. The budgets are colossal. I made the additions: 20 million plus 67 million in indoor and outdoor work lead us to 87 million. Indeed, the federal state alone will not be able to find itself there. Although we may be able to do so according to plans spread over several years, as the Walloon Region has done for large buildings such as cathedrals or others. I would like to plead, once again, for the possibility that your department, together with the province – which you know well, since we have this common point of having been provincial MP both, me in Liège and you in Walloon Brabant –, the Walloon Region, the federal state and justice, form a kind of task force that would come together and put forward the solutions that each could bring. Mrs Jadin is right: regardless of the recovery plan from which the Brussels courthouse was set up, and for which additional funding was found, the province of Liège is located close to Germany and the Netherlands, and sometimes benefiting from European co-financing projects under the Euregio or other projects. So I really believe that we must get together at the bedside of this old building that is in the heart of the Liegeians, but not only. In terms of visibility for Wallonia and Belgium, this building is a monument of a very remarkable class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to take stock with you of the construction of the new legal psychiatry centre in Paifve. According to my information, the reconstruction of a new establishment in Paivfe has been retained in the Masterplan Prisons and Internance and is one of the government's top priorities. I wonder, however, about the progress of this matter. What about construction in terms of time? Is there already a timetable for the various stages of this construction project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, the government agreement provides for the priority construction of three new legal psychiatry centres, one of which is in Paifve. The Paifve site, which is very spacious, is already home to a social defence institution whose current occupants should eventually be transferred to the future legal psychiatry centre, with the current buildings destined to become a prison. This transformation apparently involves some development work, in particular to increase the level of security in the prison. I was able to go to Paifve a few weeks ago and chat with staff. Many questions arise at the moment about these changes, particularly in terms of timing and impact on working conditions, but also on the project itself. Mr Secretary of State, is there already a timetable for the construction of the new legal psychiatry centre? Has the future allocation of the current institution been determined? What would be the profiles of the inmates who would be accommodated there? What would be the impact of these profiles on the scope of the work to be planned? How and where are the security standards to be met based on these profiles for the different types of places of deprivation of liberty determined? A study is apparently planned with respect to site transformation. Has it already been attributed, and if so, to whom? How has the specifications been determined? Is this related to the previous question about future assignment? Is there a sufficient number of staff at the Régie des Bâtiments de Liège to monitor the work and maintenance for Paifve and the various establishments in the Liège region, some of which are in poor condition? What would be the impact of future work on the current staff of the Social Defence Institution (SDO)? Is it possible, as staff would like, to phase out the work in order to avoid the complete closure of the site for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u19	Colleagues, as you have pointed out, I would indeed like to point out that Legal Psychiatry Centres (LCPs), including Paifve, are among the government's current priorities. Paifve's PLC file continues to move forward and progresses rather well. The planning is coordinated between Justice and Public Health, but has not yet been finalized. However, the selection decisions for the selection of a legal and financial consultant in support of the Régie des bâtiments have already been made. We are therefore entering the second phase of the award of the contract, namely the appointment of a consultant to support stakeholders, such as the Justice FPS, Public Health and the Régie des Bâtiments, in the development of public contracts. This consultancy contract is expected to be awarded after the summer of 2021. With regard to the Social Defence Institution (SDO), a study is still needed to establish the possibilities for conversion. This study should be included in the contracts related to the PLC and will be oriented towards a prison project and renovation of existing facilities. The FPS Justice still needs to have a needs program that will determine the profile of inmates, the type of security, etc. In the absence of such a program, the Régie des Bâtiments cannot foresee today whether or not the work will be completed. In this case, the Board's role focuses on the management of the project and the implementation of the resulting processes, with maximum respect for the well-being of staff and occupants. Finally, for all our sites, special attention is put in place to best meet the needs of renovation and maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very clear answers. I will re-examine the Minister of Justice to find out how best to move these issues forward, which, as you said, are a priority for this government. I am pleased to hear that the Régie des Bâtiments is concerned with the elements of well-being at work and that follow-up will be ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I have not been able to answer all my questions, but I thank you for the elements you have given me. I am also well aware that this subject is shared among several members of the executive and that you do not have all the answers on your own. I am also asking the Minister of Justice in this regard about the aspects that fall within his jurisdiction. I am pleased to learn that the case is progressing well as I share the government's goal of ending the internment of people in prisons and building other places to accommodate them. It is also obvious that the determination of the needs for the transformation of the prison environment must be made before the conversion study. That makes perfect sense. However, I would like to stress one point. Paifve's current staff is worried. Uncertainty about his future working conditions. Other closures in the past have meant that some have sometimes been assigned jobs on breaks and far away from home, which can complicate life. It would therefore be useful, as soon as possible, to clarify matters in order to reassure the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I am reminded that the second phase of the construction of the Federal Police Masterplan on the Vottem site would be delayed, despite the units and people who are eagerly awaiting their move to the site in question. I am thinking in particular of the Directorate of Security (DAB). The first phase of the masterplan has just come to an end, offering the federal police a new emergency call centre and a completely modern laboratory. According to my information, the Council of Ministers has yet to give its green light to phase 2 so that the Régie des Bâtiments can finally publish the market. Mr Secretary of State, what about the realization of phase 2 of the masterplan? When will it be started? Can you recall the steps to be taken and the timetable envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u23	Madam Member, I can reassure you that the file is being prepared. We have already far exceeded the initial schedule, but these delays are explained. They are mainly responsible for the various changes in the project and for needs such as the identification of polluted areas, the increase of the terrorist threat, the improvement of the quality of unbuilt spaces or the integration of about 400 parking spaces. We are technically ready to move forward on this issue, but its evolution leads to a substantial increase in the resources to be allocated to it. This is not a problem, but the fact of further professionalizing the Régie tool means acting rigorously, seriously and transparently and not finding a solution on a case-by-case basis for each budget overrun. The Council of Ministers will decide on this project as soon as it has a clear, precise and long-term vision of the investments planned by the Régie. You're getting to know me better now: I'm someone who says what he does and does what he says. Today, with my teams, I am putting a great deal of my energy into completing this multi-year investment plan as quickly as possible. I remain convinced that it is the key to this project, but also to an efficient and transparent project of the Régie des Bâtiments and, more importantly, it will enable the priorities for the teams to be further structured and will undoubtedly improve the timeliness that we can then set. So you will have understood that I do not want to commit myself to a schedule that I cannot guarantee you respect. On the other hand, I can assure you that everything is being done not to make false promises and to make effective progress. I therefore invite you to reconsider this matter once the multi-annual plan has been validated by the Council of Ministers. I will then be happy to inform you of the planning of this project which is essential for our law enforcement agencies and which has already, in my readings, dragged far too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u24	I think you can count on Mrs Jadin to come back to the subject when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u25	I am exercising my control mission, Mr. President! Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Indeed, I note and share with you – in order to know a little about the structure and operation of the Régie des Bâtiments – this need for a better structuring of the projects, a greater connection between the different departments with regard to very specific projects. This is about a project from the interior. It is clear that all this needs to be better coordinated. So whether the project changes or we have surprises during the project, of course, this happens. Anyone who's had a little interest in this type of file knows that. I also have a project for the police in Eupen. I'll come back to it later. I hope that these various projects will be taken into account in the multiannual plan. Secretary of State, I will be with you to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I have tabled two questions, but the second question is rather an update of the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mr De Spiegeleer, from the outset there have been contacts between the Federal Committee on the purchase of real estate and the municipality on the land in question. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached on expropriation of the municipality at the price estimated by the Purchase Committee. In application of the law on public property and without expropriation of the municipality, a sale was started with publicity. The first bidding round was held on 14 February 2021 with a fixed price of 87,000 euros. The municipality has also made an offer. A meeting with the Committee was held on 18 February 2021. The sales procedure ran at that time and could not be concluded. After the first round of registration, the municipality did not belong to the top five bidders. However, it was decided to continue to invite all bidders to the arbitration hearing, so that the municipality would still have a chance to participate. The municipality confirmed that it would be present and would participate in the tender. It was also decided to give the municipality sufficient time to prepare itself. During the arbitration session of 22 April 2021, two months after the first bidding round, the Municipality did not make the highest bid and according to the information provided by the Purchase Committee, a sales promise was signed with the highest bidder. Today it seems difficult to put an end to the sale without the risk of compensation. The municipality still has the option of expropriating the plots, but will now have to expropriate the private person at the minimum price so far known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u28	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the complexity of the operation and the dates I hear in your answers confirms the unnecessary administrative difficulties and the waste of time that this entails. That would generate more questions than answers. As a Member of Parliament for Flemish Interest, I do not really care about federal public enterprises and institutions, their way of working and their funding. But this particular dossier seems to give a significant part of the explanation why I am very sceptical about their way of working, in particular that of the Buildings Regie. Your answer can't take that feeling away. In short, in this particular conflict with the local government of St. Peter's-Leeuw, the Executive Board of the Buildings proves that it is archaic and cumbersome and does little constructive and transparent work. It's not like this that you can gain trust. After all, we are doing the opposite of what is intended and promised. So I can only conclude that the new political culture and the constructive way of working between different political policy levels in the Buildings Control are proving to be very far away. We regret that, of course. To be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I also think it is a very peculiar way of working from the direction of the Buildings. The municipality should now perhaps initiate an expropriation procedure. I do think it is still possible to settle this matter in a friendly manner. It is truly regrettable that this is the way to proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u30	Like the previous questioner, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u31	Originally, the theories installed in 1984 concerned only the dome. They were placed to protect against falling stones and before the beginning of the study and restoration of the dome. The study of the dome was ordered in 1995 by the Government of the Buildings. The study contract was concluded with Bureau ARTER in 1997. The first actual work on the dome consisted of the removal of the antenna from the RTB's radio and television station, which was in the dome, the removal of asbestos and also restoration tests. However, the classification of the Justice Palace as a protected heritage in 2001 considerably delayed the study, thus breaking the original contract and requiring a new tender. Over the years several repairs were carried out on the facade stones. As far as costs are concerned, the turrets were placed in 1984 for about EUR 5,600. They were rented until 2000 for about 530,000 euros. In 2000, the claims were bought for about 160,000 euros. The racks on the façade of the Poelaertplein were placed in 2005 for about 160,000 euros. They were rented until 2014 for 650,000 euros. They were then bought in the same year for about 42,000 euros. The maintenance costs for the claims themselves, such as controls, reinforcements and adjustments, have been around 310,000 euros in total in recent decades, including VAT. The Government of the Buildings and the administration of the Justice Palace carry out weekly checks in accordance with their function. The checks shall not be outsourced. Where necessary, the checks shall be followed by work. Checks, inspections and cleaning are also carried out several times a year under the TPF maintenance contract. Moreover, since the start of the study in 2018, the study bureau appointed for the restoration of the facades has carried out checks on the state of the facades with a multidisciplinary team of restoration architects, engineers, historians, etc. If necessary, work will be carried out. As regards the state of the facades, maintenance works were carried out in 2011 and 2016. These maintenance campaigns involved a general inspection of the facades, roofs, courtyards and facades of the dome, removal of plants, local repair of joints and removal of unstable elements. These maintenance works are also planned for 2021, with the exception of the facades at the Poelaertplein and the dome, as they are included in the first restoration phase. Maintenance costs amounted to 236,000 euros in 2011. The 2016 figure was 408,000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u32	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Of course, this is pure Kafka. It's only possible in this country. If I follow the story correctly, there was a problem at the dome in 1980. Rocks fell. There were positions to be placed. They cost 530,000 euros in rent. On top of that, 160,000 euros were spent to purchase them afterwards. Other claims cost 650,000 euros in rent, and another 42,000 euros to purchase them. There were repairs for 310,000 euros, 236,000 euros and 408,000 euros. The cost of the study offices and the checks are not yet included. The problem began in 1980. In 1997, almost 17 years later, an agreement could be concluded. Even the Sagrada Familia will be completed faster by 2026, than the Brussels Justice Palace. In 1980 there were problems. So the final objective is apparently 2030, and I would like to say at this stage that we will probably not be able to achieve it by then and that things will go wrong again. This is really typical of how our country doesn't work anymore. This whole project has so far been a Kafkaian project. It's dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u33	Mr. Secretary of State, in Namur, the Judicial Director (DirJu) and the Federal Police Coordinator (DirCo) decided to repatriate the federal police officers from Dinant to Namur. This decision has made some noise and has been described enough for reasons that are not within your jurisdiction. But it is true that the decentralization of federal police services remains relevant in rural areas. The southern part of the province thus feels a little more deserted and forgotten. In terms of staff, trade union status did not provide for consultation in this type of decision. It was therefore not associated with the decision and the future implications of the abolition of services in Dinant. The proposed project does not appear to be consistent with the Integrated Police Standards Book. Mr Secretary of State, I come back to the scope of your powers. In Namur, the Arsenal building, located in the university district of Namur, and the Pépin building, a predestined name, located in the residential area of the barracks which is difficult to reach, sheltering the Federal Judicial Police are certainly voluminous but totally outdated and unsuitable for their missions. Investigators who are already there do not have the full functionality set out in the Integrated Police Infrastructure Standards. It is therefore necessary to bring in 50 additional agents. Mr Secretary of State, what will be the planning work to be carried out in order to welcome in Namur, in good working conditions, fifty police officers repatriated? What would be the updated amount of these costs? What would be the timetable for these developments? What about the masterplan of new infrastructures in Erpent in Namur's entity? Would they not be able to accommodate repatriated police officers? The construction of this new building, which would meet ecological, energy, accessibility and space standards, would result in much better working conditions because it would meet the requirements for space, space and accessibility. It would also allow time for the police areas of the former Dinant district, to have a real reflection on how the action will be organised with the judicial police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u34	Mr Delizée, thank you for your question. In the preamble, I would like to point out that the choice of repatriating the Federal Judicial Police from Dinant to Namur is normally a concerted decision between the police authorities and the Minister of the Interior. In this case, the Régie has a supportive role in offering the most suitable building(s) to meet the needs of its clients and in responding to their needs program. With this in mind, and in order to best accommodate the dining agents in Namur, the following work has been or will be carried out. In the Arsenal district, the development of a cell complex (165,714 euros) is complete and the development of health offices and the wellness pool (137 000 euros) is expected to start very soon. Rue Pépin, the project is awaiting commitment, but consists of the development of the concierge in the wellness pool for an amount of 48,000 euros, the redevelopment of the offices on the 4th floor (130,000 euros) and the renovation of the offices normally planned in 2022 (amount unknown). The total amount of this work is EUR 481,000. As for the Masterplan Erpent, the objective is to centralise all the federal police services, including part of the DAB, and to propose qualitative buildings to the federal police on the basis of the needs communicated by the interior. On this point, I refer you to my colleague from the Interior. At present, on the basis of the information provided by the Régie des Bâtiments, we do not have a comprehensive view on the part of the federal police or a validated needs programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the elements of the answer and the figures for the work planned. With regard to the schedule of this work in the Arsenal district and at Rue Pépin, do you have any idea of timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u36	I will provide you with my answer later. In this case, they would be expected in the next few months. I'll check my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u37	In any case, we are in the short term to start the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u38	According to the Régie's information, that's their intention. I say it with great caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u39	It's not a huge construction site. And as far as the Erpent masterplan is concerned, we are more in the wave if the Interior SPF does not define the needs and a precise demand. The Régie cannot therefore go any further. I understand that. I note that we are a little in the throes with regard to the integration of this fifty agents in good conditions in Namur. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, the Purple-Green Verhofstadt Government sold a lot of government buildings at the beginning of the century and then rented them again, the notorious sales and leasebacks. Since then, the federal state has been chained to ongoing leases for those buildings, even though they are no longer used. This is the case, for example, for an office building in the Paleizenstraat 48 in Schaerbeek, which is managed by the Government of the Buildings. A rent of EUR 2.6 million had to be paid for that office building in 2020. However, the building has been empty since 2016 and has cost the state treasury millions of euros, while it didn't pay anything. According to the Government of the Buildings, the lease contract for the specific building can be terminated early, at the end of 2021, instead of the deadline set in 2026. The above-mentioned example concerns only 1 of the 84 buildings that were once subject to a sale-and-lease-back operation. Can you explain how such a contract can be terminated early? What is your position on this and do you really want to terminate the contract early? How many buildings have been left empty for a long time? How many of these properties are protected from empty positions? Will you also undertake to terminate other rental agreements early? Are you prepared to give the Chambers' Committee access to the current lease contracts of the Government of the Buildings? In what way? To an earlier written question from me on this matter, your predecessor, former Minister Geens, replied that it would not be desirable to release the list of buildings under management and rented by the Government of the Buildings. The Government of the Buildings is also often mysterious about it. Apparently, Parliament should not know what buildings the State owns and what buildings Parliament is allowed to grant EUR 800 million each year, which in itself is scandalous. It is even more criminal, however, that a news medium had access to that list. I refer to the weekly Knack of 24 March 2021. How do you explain that information is easier for the media than for Parliament? I would have liked to have gotten a list of the properties that are rented with sale-and-lease-back contracts by the Government of the Buildings. Since that list is just on the street, it may as well be submitted to Members in a formal manner. What buildings under the control of the Government of the Buildings will be vacant in the next five years according to current contracts? Which of these buildings has the Buildings Regie already found a new destination for? Which of the buildings are rented and by what method? My question No. 55016397C is linked to this, Mr Secretary of State. I refer, in view of the progress of the committee's work, to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u41	My third related question concerns the fragmentation of real estate management. Turns out what? The Government of the Buildings is responsible for the entire federal real estate management, but in 2018 the Federal Planning Office itself rented an office building for a term of 18 years without the involvement of the Government of the Buildings. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of this state of affairs? Of course, the Federal Planning Office does not fall within your jurisdiction, but real estate management does. Are there other government agencies, FPS or administrations that manage their own housing? Why isn't the Government of the Buildings working with them? Are those federal government services, in your opinion, mandated to hire themselves, outside the scope of control? Is there a legal basis for this? Do you, as Secretary of State for the sole real estate manager of the federal government, consider that the fragmentation of federal real estate management is a good thing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u42	Mr Roggeman, first of all, as far as the financial institutions are concerned, there are no further pending cases with Mr Zweegers on public property. The current indexed annual rent for the Financial Institutions is EUR 58 million. The lease agreement for the Botanical Administrative Centre does not provide for the possibility of a revision of the rental price outside the indexation mechanism set out in it. Secondly, as regards the building at the Palaisstraat, the lease agreement does not normally provide for an early termination. However, the direction has negotiated with the owner a termination fee, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2021. According to the information provided by the director, no building has been left empty for a long time. In addition, all buildings that will be sold are in principle protected from emptying. If a building is empty for too long, the direction initiates a procedure either to accommodate other federal services or to seek out other prospective tenants who are willing to take over the lease or terminate the lease. Thirdly, the Federal Planning Office is an independent institution of public interest, the housing of which does not fall within the competence of the Government of the Buildings. It is therefore one of the few exceptions provided for in the Law of 1 April 1971 establishing the Buildings Control, as is the case with Parliament. However, the Federal Planning Office is free to use the Buildings Management for its accommodation. Despite these few exceptions, departments which are to be housed by the Government of the Buildings under the 1971 Law are obliged to make use of the Government of the Buildings. They can't provide their own shelter. There is therefore no fragmentation of federal property management, but an exception. Finally, I have always sought to be transparent and to inform Members effectively and correctly in response to their written and oral questions addressed to me. All lists of buildings and assets have always been made available in full transparency at the request of members. The Government of the Buildings does, however, urge caution regarding the disclosure of the lists of state property and rented buildings to prevent damage caused by speculation with strategically interesting buildings or land. In addition, the lists also include buildings containing security services and other services. It is regrettable that a list of properties owned by the State and managed by the Government of the Buildings could be published in the media. I would like to make available the list of buildings rented under a sale-and-lease-back operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u43	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. It is, of course, a disadvantage of combined questions and answers that many aspects remain unanswered. In any case, I understand that you are willing to provide transparency on the ongoing sale-and-lease-back contracts relating to leased buildings. That is in itself positive. You say you prefer to keep the Real Estate List confidential. However, I find it regrettable that Parliament is being so limited in its control function. That is basically what this is all about. You say that the list should be kept confidential for strategic reasons, but then there are other instruments that can be made available to Members of Parliament to carry out the audit function on its merits. When you say that Parliament does not have access to the documentation, it is a restriction. There is little chance that the lists that would give rise to possible speculation could be abused in the Chamber behind closed doors. Anyway, that's what it is. You state that no building with a lease status is long-term empty. I dispute that, Mr Secretary of State, on the basis of the example of the Palaistraat. That building's been empty since 2016. The definitions of what is long-lasting can be quite stretchy. However, in common terms, when a building has been empty since 2016 and therefore for five years continuously, I think that the term long-term applies here. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to my question as to how much Mr Zweegers paid to the Special Tax Inspectorate for the settlement of his tax claim. I do not know if you have that information at your disposal, otherwise I will have to ask a follow-up question. Nor did I receive an answer as to whether there are any court cases with Mr Zweegers in connection with government real estate. I am glad to hear that the Federal Planning Office is one of the exceptions to the rule, as regards renting out its own government heritage. The opposite could be interpreted as a sign of distrust of the Government of the Buildings. It is a sign when government agencies would rather provide their own rental contracts and provide their own housing, rather than go into business with the Government of the Buildings. That would be a needless blemish on the blazing of the Buildings Regie. But I understand that this is an exception and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u44	I replied at the beginning that, according to my information, there are no more court cases with Mr Zweegers. You put words in my mouth that I did not say. All I've said is that the direction suggests caution in relation to the real estate list. I have no problem getting that information out. Moreover, I think it is very important that Members of Parliament are properly informed. Maybe you misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u45	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clarification. It is a good thing that you want to provide this information, and I am counting on them to be made available to the members of the committee shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u46	Question No 55015762C by Mrs Özlem Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u47	Secretary of State, the unique historical building complex of the Pand in Ghent has been a cultural and congress centre of Ghent University for three decades. What many do not know, however, is that the Pand is not part of the heritage of Ghent University, but indeed belongs to that of the Government of the Buildings. This complex was originally made available to the University through a rental agreement dating back to 1998 which ends in 2023. Pending a relocation, the University wishes to extend the agreement once and only until the end of 2026, or by 2027 at the latest. Both sides agree in principle on this extension, but the detailed conditions are still under way. In addition, the Government of the Buildings took the view that this extension is therefore possible, provided that an annual fee of EUR 609,271 is paid. If the relocation does not take place in time, an additional fee of 75,000 euros per month will be requested. There is no denying, Mr Secretary of State, that this is an exuberant amount, especially when the conditions are taken into account, stating that Ghent University takes care of the maintenance of both tenant and landlord. In view of the type of building, which requires a lot of maintenance and specific repairs, given its protection status, Ghent University considers that a normal rental value is rather around 2.5 % return and that a remuneration of 262.125 euro would therefore be better in line with the non-commercial context of the agreement. In particular, it should be noted that Ghent University is a public institution, which runs the Pand in a non-commercial way, but through these buildings makes an important contribution to, among other things, our culture. Mr Secretary of State, can you, together with the Government of the Buildings, consider this reasonable proposal from Ghent University? Additional, but perhaps you can't answer this question, what does the Government of the Buildings expect to do with this historic and unique heritage after 2027?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u48	Colleague, I am obviously sensitive to the situation of Ghent University in this matter. The Government of the Buildings informs me that she has considered and examined the request for rent reduction from the University. However, the Government of the Buildings stresses that, although the State acquired the property as a whole free of charge, it had to make major investments in the renovation of the buildings in order to make them available to Ghent University. Within the legal limits, I will ensure that the Government of the Buildings gives an appropriate response to Ghent University in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, I invite you to visit the premises together. It's a unique building. It is perhaps the most beautiful building in the possession of the Government of the Buildings. Maybe we can go to a future project together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u50	Secretary of State, I recently asked your colleague, the Minister of Justice, about the future courthouse in Tournai. In connection with this question, he made it clear that all the judicial settlements in Tournai would be assembled in the new building, which implies a calculation of the needs of the judiciary in relation to all the judicial functions performed in this territory of the city of Tournai and, more broadly, the so-called territory of Wallonia Picarde. What is the dynamic that works between you so that the file is finally concretely and definitively on the rails, knowing moreover that a land has been identified at the local level? You know this very well because you have been involved in the signing of a memorandum of understanding allowing this land to be made available for ten years, while the federal state takes its decision and implements it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u51	Dear colleague, I thank you for your question and I would like to stress the energy you are putting into supporting this beautiful project. As you noted, this file has entered a positive dynamic. A cooperation agreement between the Régie des Bâtiments and the city of Tournai was signed on 3 May 2021. All the steps will be continued between the city of Tournai, the law firm and mine with a view to the concrete conclusion of this lease. Thus, as soon as the land is made available through an emphyteotic lease of 99 years and the final programme of the needs of justice is received, the Régie des Bâtiments will prepare a feasibility study. When this convention was signed, a proposal for a programme of needs was communicated to us by the bar and the judiciary. Of course, this program will need to be completed, amended and validated by the Justice FPS. The site covered by this cooperation agreement will bring together all the judicial services in Tournai. However, if it appears that, following the feasibility study, it is possible to add other federal services to the courthouse, the city of Tournai will not oppose this possibility. Pending the construction of the new courthouse, the Régie des Bâtiments will continue to maintain the old palace by carrying out various types of renovations and upgrades. Between 2017 and today, the cost of this work amounted to more than 500,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. My reply has three points. First, I note that the plan of needs, or in any case the cleanliness, the project, is in your hands but also in those of the Minister of Justice. So it takes an impulse from the SFP Justice for all this to take shape. It's important to know that. It is also important that I know this so that I can ask your colleague in the near future questions about the status of the validation of this draft of needs, as established by the bar and the judicial organisation. Secondly, I feel through your answer that there is a strong demand – correct me if I am wrong – for the Régie to try to optimize the construction to come as much as possible, in the sense that, if other federal functions were to be added, apart from those relating to justice, there would be a wish in that direction on your part and probably an agreement with the judicial authorities. That is a question that I ask half-wordly and perhaps I will ask you in a future speech. Of course, we must not lose sight of the fact that the judicial organisation is specific and that it may not be appropriate to mix, with too much proximity, services which are diametrically contrary to the demands of a healthy and serene organisation of justice. Finally, regarding the use of the current courthouse, can you send me a plan for future renovations that still have to be done in this venerable building? Does the Régie intend to participate in the development of a plan that will allow this courthouse, which will last the next ten years, to be emptied of its substance, to find a new youth with new functions? Will the Régie des Bâtiments participate in the development of such a plan to help the city of Tournai in its search for new features within this venerable building?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u53	Mr Francken is not present for his question No. 55017300C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u54	In the preamble, it is useful to point out that, in the vast majority of cases, the Régie des Bâtiments is responsible only for the real estate elements that fall under the obligations of an owner and, on the other hand, that the Régie's heritage is very often old and poorly adapted to current accessibility obligations. However, in principle, whenever there is a need to implement reasonable accommodation in a building, including for justice and prisons, the operational service concerned at the Régie shall take charge of the request in accordance with an automatic procedure and, where appropriate, consult with the accessibility adviser of the central service. It is solely responsible for physical accessibility. Digital and communicational accessibility depend on the occupier's services. At present, the means at the disposal of the Régie do not allow it to resolve all the numerous historical non-conformities in a single time or even in a very short time. Unfortunately, in some cases there is no ideal or reasonable solution under Article 2 of the Protocol of 19 July 2007, on the one hand, and UNIA's recommendations on the other. It is then envisaged to move the occupant to a more suitable building if no solution is found. Moreover, since October 2019, the Régie has imposed on its designers and managers the fulfilment of a consistent set of complementary accessibility obligations. These obligations go far beyond regional regulations but are not a substitute for them. These strict rules in terms of accessibility to any form of disability apply to new courthouses as well as to new prisons and are applied as long as possible in existing buildings. Finally, it goes without saying that the application of these specific rules remains partial when it comes to buildings rented in a rental context which is still poorly adapted. With regard to the reference disability, as required by the 2006 UN Convention, there has been a disability reference at the Régie des Bâtiments since 2012. A training architect, he has received numerous training in accessibility not only of buildings, but also of signage and easy-to-read and easy-to-understand language. He is therefore also an accessibility advisor. In support of the disability focal point, seven agents – one for each operational department – follow more closely the "accessibility" dimension of all our projects. It is expected that they will have to undergo a minimum of three days' training and three of them – one per Region – should become accessibility advisors (ten-day training) in order to be able to answer specific questions and regional specificities. These trainings will be organised in the near future. Following a request by UNIA in 2015, the Régie des Bâtiments decided to implement a procedure for the diagnosis of the accessibility of all buildings of which it owns. For my part, like you, I consider it important to work in collaboration with specialized associations recognized for their expertise in the reception of persons with disabilities. It is in this sense that I invite the Régie to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answers. I am well aware of the enormous challenge of bringing older buildings into compliance in the light of historical non-compliances that cannot always be resolved. The point is to invest immediately as soon as there are renovations and new constructions so that they are up to standards. I am pleased with your answers and will take the time to look at them in depth. The spirit of my questions, as you will have understood, was linked to the recent inclusion of an article in our Constitution (22ter) aimed at the practical implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities. I see that you are paying attention to this and I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u57	I would like to add one more element. They say there might be a police station in the building, and I would have liked to know if you could confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u58	Ms Houtmeyers, the administrative building located on the Goossenvest in Tienen, was sold to Fedimmo through a sale-and-lease-back construction in 2006. The site served as housing for the FPS Finance and the FPS Justice Department, in particular the peace court. The lease, starting on 28 December 2006, was entered into for a period of 15 years, with the first possible end date being 27 December 2021. However, the rent of the building for the FPS Finance was broken on 30 June 2020, as the building was no longer used by the FPS Finance Services. Since negotiations with Fedimmo NV have been ongoing since 2019, there was no vaccination centre at the start of this dossier. The rent for the peace court building continued after 30 June 2020 but was cancelled on 14 December 2020, with the end date of 27 December 2021, with a view to moving from the peace court to the former Sugar Museum on the Grand Place of Tienen. At present, only the building for the peace court is rented. In the absence of federal utility, the Government of the Buildings now has no further interest in the site. At the moment, the Buildings Regie still houses two federal services in Tienen, in particular the customs services of the FPS Finance and the peace court, which is covered by the FPS Justice Department. Centralisation is not possible taking into account the requirements of both services. Customs want to be housed in the vicinity of the Soldagenplein industrial park, while the peace court prefers to stay in the centre of the city. Finally, it is the FPS Finance's choice whether or not to proceed to centralization and reduce the number of locations. I would therefore like to refer you to my colleague from Finance. The same applies to the infrastructure plans for 2015 and subsequent years drawn up by the FPS Finance. So far, I don't have any information on the police station.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, I believe that the reduction in the number of sites is a logical consequence of the centralisation of services. You say there's no federal interest anymore. I therefore assume that the lease will cease completely. I therefore believe that there will indeed be no police station unless it can be decided later. I don't see the time frame within which such a decision is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic475x.u60	I don't have any information on that. I suggest that you put a new oral question on this so that I can answer you. My apologies.
