ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u1	Madam Minister, TWISTER is a PESCO project aimed at developing a immune system against hypersonic weapons. That too is the future of our arsenal. At PESCO there are always different degrees. France is the coordinator of the project. Belgium is an observer, while the Netherlands is a project member. Interestingly, Germany used to be an observer, like Belgium, but at the end of last year it changed its status from observer to project member. Why was an observer status chosen for the project? On what basis is it normally decided to participate, be an observer or not participate at all? In the light of my plea for better cooperation between the industry and the defence industry and, by the way, of your policy paper, I would like to know how the Belgian industry is involved in the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u2	Mr Pillen, the PESCO TWISTER project was launched in November 2019. The project aims to realise a capacity to detect and eliminate various air threats. The nature of the technological implementation and the size of the budget required are not yet known. The opportunity of a Belgian participation was then tested on the basis of the strategic vision of 2016. It states that our frigates can also be engaged in a ballistic missile defence system if they wish, as they will be able to fire missiles that can intercept ballistic missiles outside our atmosphere. This requires cooperation, because radar systems are needed that are capable of long-range detection. This means that the Belgian Navy may be able to play a role in the interception part of the project, so that participation was timely. However, given the technological and budgetary uncertainty, participation was limited to observer participation. The decision whether or not to participate and take on the role of participant or observer shall be made on the basis of an assessment. Factors involved in that assessment are coherence with the strategic vision and general policy paper, coherence with NATO, legal impact, budgetary impact and avoiding duplication and fragmentation. There's no link to the industry in that assessment. There was therefore no consultation with the Belgian industry with regard to the TWISTER project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You say that the project started in November 2019 on the basis of a strategic vision dating from 2016. I think it is again a good example of the need not to chisel a strategic vision in stone, but to update it continuously. You have done the same recently, with the launch of your strategic committee. As far as TWISTER is concerned, I will read your answer again. However, I remain convinced that communication between defence and industry must be proactive and structural across all projects. That is an important point of reference. That point is in your policy paper and deserves to be further worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u4	Madam Secretary, a lot of flying equipment has either gone out or is about to get out. We didn't say goodbye to the Alpha Jet that long ago. The Marchetti SF.260 dates back to the late 1970s. In the Netherlands, a country that will be dealt with more often in this committee when I look at the agenda, which is very good, they have already made a decision. They will replace the PC-7, which they use as a teaching tool, in the late 20's. Madam Secretary, what is the expected end-of-life of our teachers? Has there been an investigation into a successor? Is use an option? The UK, for example, does that. What is your idea of working with the Netherlands? If they have already chosen, there may be opportunities to work together to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u5	Madam Secretary, my questions are similar. I would like to add one more element. The Austrian company Diamond visited to promote their aircraft. In the press, DART-550 was referred to as the successor of the Marchetti. Fortunately, the correct communication from Defence came that Belgium wants to keep the competition for that new basic training device as open as possible at this stage. What procedure will be followed? What's the time horizon? Is it true that the Marchetti will be withdrawn in 2023? How will that translate into a budget? Will outsourcing be used? Is this included in the investment budget? How do you see the collaboration with the Netherlands? I would also like to refer to Mr Pill's approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u6	Colleagues, there is a study currently under way in the form of a military market prospect looking at the different options for the Marchetti machines. The combination of the various training courses as pilots and the opportunities on the market make this complex, so that the result of the study is somewhat delayed. Several options are currently being examined, ranging from purchase to international cooperation and outsourcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u7	Madam Minister, you did not say when the end-of-life period was expected, but I would like to thank you for your reply. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for your very brief answer. You have not actually answered my various questions. I'm disappointed by that, though. It has to be that there is still a lot of research to be done to create some clarity there. For example, the end-of-life period is not something that needs to be investigated. It seems to me to be the least we can do to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u9	Mr President, in order to protect you and ensure the proper functioning of the work, you should be replaced by a Vice-President when you ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u11	Yeah, but you're not vice president. Therefore, a Vice-President or an older Member of Parliament must be asked to serve as President. Mr. President, I'm saying it to protect you. You have just used your freedom of expression to respond to the minister. By definition, however, a president does not intervene, at the risk of being criticized - for example, if he applauds. I'd like to avoid this kind of inconvenience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u12	I'm trying to fill my role as chairman as neutral as possible. I'm doing it the right way. However, I am free to ask questions. I'm sticking to the timing perfectly. I have no argument for saying that this speaker is out of line. If you insist that I be replaced the moment I ask questions, I will. Then I will be replaced by point 4. I don't know who's gonna replace me at the time. So you're supposed to be in charge of this? Is that your secret desire?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u13	Madam Minister, the Avrox dossier was a fine one for our party, unfortunately a little less good for the previous government. There has been a lack of communication and transparency, among other things. You are now the new Secretary of Defense and I hope you will be able to explain to the public how the fork was stolen and how nothing went wrong at the time. First of all, I understand the police have started an investigation. Will the military police also carry out investigations in accordance with this? Secondly, your predecessor said in Parliament that one of Avrox's references was about the delivery of mouth masks to another government. An article in Het Laatste Nieuws now shows that this is not the case, but that a mysterious company has been delivered to Mauritius, Bright Periods Consulting, with whom persons of Avrox were in contact or known to them. Why did your predecessor say that Avrox's reference came from a government when it wasn't? Did he just make a mistake or what else is going on here? How do you feel about the mysterious company in Mauritius being very well known by the mysterious mailbox company Avrox and vice versa? My final question before you is about the amount paid to Avrox. The figures I requested show that the corona commission paid EUR 39.75 million for those mouth masks. But the tender is about EUR 37.5 million. So I want to know where that difference comes from. The difference corresponds to 6 %. That's the tax on mouth masks. But Avrox isn't a Belgian firm. It is based in Luxembourg and also has a Luxembourg VAT number. This means that we are talking about an international shipment, an intra-Community shipment in the European Union, where there is no need to pay VAT to Avrox. Why did that happen? Was that a mistake? Is there anything I don't know? Are there other rules depending on a state, individuals or companies placing orders? If there is an error, is that money returned or not to the Belgian VAT services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u14	Madam Minister, I too would like to go back to the issue of the Defence masks, which triggered a controversy a few months ago, with some nebulous points for the award of the contract raised by the companies that lost it. In the meantime, Avrox terminated the proceedings against the three textile federations in Brussels on the basis of information provided to them by Avrox, which seems to have reassured them and put a stop to their accusations. However, questions were again asked as a result of information in the press on 4 January, which leads to a little blurry and a climate of suspicion. A witness invoice was thus found in the Defence file by the press, which is indeed not addressed to a public authority – as was required by the market – but to a Mauritian company, PCB. In addition, PCB and Avrox leaders appear to be close friends, adding to widespread suspicion. Minister, can you confirm that the evidence was provided by Defence that Avrox met the conditions for responding to the contract? Is it on the basis of this invoice that it was considered to be the case or did other elements lead to this choice? Can you take stock of the distribution of these masks and assess the impact that this controversy may have had on the degree of confidence that the population has put in these masks and thus in Defence? What is the importance of the stock today? Is there a new communication campaign planned to continue the distribution? In addition to withdrawal in pharmacies, are other distribution systems being considered today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u15	Madam Minister, since previous speakers Defossé and Freilich have already introduced the problem very extensively, I will not bore you with repetitions. I refer to the written version of my question No. 55012102C. Well, I'm gonna take a passage out of it. How did the DOD verify the authenticity of the reference order? Was she even checked for authenticity or was she just accepted for what? Who made the check-up happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u16	At the meeting of the Committee on 13 May 2020, Minister Goffin stated that: "The company indicated as a reference the supply in 2020 of 1 million masks to another country." In other words, the company gave the delivery of 1 million masks to another country in 2020 as a reference. So Minister Goffin didn't say anything wrong. Anti-Chute was not taken into account for the award, since the amount of 18 million masks was reached with the two selected firms, while Anti-Chute could only deliver 800,000 masks for the same period. No 39.75 million was paid to Avrox, as an amount of more than 5.5 million euros was deducted from the invoices for the fines and the penalty. The VAT of 6%, an amount of 2.25 million, was not paid to Avrox either, but to the VAT administration, so neatly to the Belgian State, as you put it, Mr Freilich. It is not the task of the military police to question soldiers in the context of the file, but it is the police's job. Mr Creyelman, the members of the Committee on Army Purchases have all had the opportunity to look into the entire file. Those responsible for the Defence Staff have been at their disposal for three days at the beginning of July. The following persons consulted the dossier: Mr Verduyckt, Mr Dallemagne, Mr Freilich, Mr De Vriendt and Mrs Chanson. They were all able to consult the references. The tenderers had to provide a statement that they had already supplied at least 250,000 reusable masks, with the name and address of the consignee. The reference you are referring to concerns an invoice for a delivery to a company abroad, namely Mauritius. The tenderer shall guarantee the authenticity of the reference on penalty of prosecution. The fact that Avrox was able to carry out the supply of the masks proved by supplying 15 million quality mouth masks, although with some delay. I am convinced that the masks continue to contribute to our fight against the pandemic. Mr Defossé, as you have already heard, the Avrox firm met the market conditions. Otherwise, my administration would not have attributed it to him at the time. Moreover, the Court of Auditors stated in its final report that the Defence had strictly and correctly applied the rules of its special specification and that all tenders had been examined identically. A tenderer must meet all the criteria and conditions for full compliance and be taken into account for the award of the contract. As regards the grounds for exclusion, qualitative selection and administrative compliance, no non-compliance was found. The controversy has certainly, and unfortunately, undermined the confidence of the population. I regret that because this is a matter of public health. The pharmacies currently have a stock of some 3 million masks, which can still be distributed to the population. There's still a little less than $7 million left at the barracks in Puie. For the time being, we are maintaining our contacts with the members of the various governments in order to examine the need for each.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you. In your opinion, Mr. Goffin had indicated, on 13 May 2020, that the delivery was destined for another country. But Bright Periods Consulting is not one of them. It is therefore clear to me that his answer was not entirely accurate. Of course, it is a company which is located in another country, but it is certain that Avrox has never delivered to Belgium. Everyone knows that. For this reason, I am not completely satisfied with the answer. Then I come to the question of the amount. The amount of EUR 39.75 million was indeed mentioned in the answer to a written question from me to the Minister of Defence. I'll look them up. Maybe it was a commission and eventually another amount was paid, but I will at least ask your cabinet a written follow-up question, because I want to know how much was actually paid. I have heard a different amount of money here today. I am pleased that the VAT error has not been made. Finally, you list that 7 million mouth masks are in the Department of Defense, and 3 million in the pharmacists. That's 10 million out of 15 million. In other words, two on the three masks have not actually been used or distributed. I'm sorry about that. As I said at the very beginning of my speech, we will find enough mouth masks in the shops. I therefore did not think it was the responsibility of the government to provide for this at that time. Now, so many months later, it turns out I was right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u18	Madam Minister, let us be honest, the dossier certainly did not go well with the public's confidence in the government's response to the crisis at the time. That confidence was not great at the time, and I doubt whether it has improved now. Thank you for the answer, because you have provided some clarity on my questions today. However, the Fog of War was not caused by the Members who asked questions about the file, but largely by your predecessor, who did not answer or did not answer. That is a considerable difference. You would like to play the ball back to Parliament, but if your predecessor had replied as you did today to my questions, we probably wouldn't have to ask a large part of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u19	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer on this sensitive issue that you inherited from your predecessor. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to consult him since I was not yet a Member of Parliament at that time. I therefore hear that, in your opinion, there is no reason to worry about the validity of this market, despite the press reports. I hope that you are right and that justice will soon be able to make the clear so that this shadow will not glide on the Defence, which, let us recall, has carried out this task which was not initially its responsibility, in a spirit of help to the nation - which is not to forget. I also hear that this controversy has had an impact on the public's confidence in Defence as it has not rushed into pharmacies to get the masks. It must be said: we still have 7.5 million masks left on our arms. It is true that cacophony about washing at 30 degrees or not did not help. In any event, it is ironic that today we find ourselves with masks that we don't know what to do when at the beginning of the crisis we didn't have a strategic stock for both the population and the healthcare staff, even if it's not the same mask that we're talking about here. I invite the Defence and you, the minister, as you have said, to find a way to distribute these masks to the more vulnerable audiences ( associations to help migrants, homeless people or others) if they indicate the need for them. It is a question of good governance, good management of public funds and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u20	Madam Minister, we have spoken a number of times in the past about this positive dossier: how to ensure that a training package for Defence can be offered in secondary education? I understand that this has been discussed with the Flemish government in a good way over the past few months. It seems that discussions with the French Community are not yet at the same level. It is important, however, that decisions are taken in the short term if we want to start effectively in the 2021-2022 school year. I have a daughter of my own in fourth grade. It will have to make a choice which direction it will follow in the third degree, and it is gradually making its choice. It is therefore important to cut through the necessary buttons and to start communication with the fourth year. Hence my questions. I have listed them in the written version. I would like to stick to the speaking time imposed by the President. So I won't read them to you. In practical terms, I am asking about the state of play, particularly with regard to the Flemish Community, but also with regard to the French Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u21	Madam Secretary, I would like to make one further point. I know you should not answer that, but it is also new information for me that I received only yesterday. It seems that the schools themselves should be responsible for marketing this direction. They have to enthuse students themselves to follow this direction. I think this is a missed opportunity after all. It would be a good thing for the Department of Defense to support the schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u22	Mr President, the agreement was signed on the Flemish side on 30 September 2020 by all partners, in particular the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Security and Home Affairs, the Flemish Minister of Work and Economy, the Flemish Minister of Education and the representatives of the education networks and columns. The Flemish Ministry of Education is responsible for the legal elaboration and has already adapted the necessary legal texts for the signature of the agreement. The partner consultation is still in the process of drawing up the curriculum. The final meeting for finalising the curriculum is scheduled for 22 January and we do not see any obstacle to reaching the January deadline. Flemish education is concerned with the selection procedure of the schools. Currently, Defense does not have a list of selected schools. The consultation between the Flemish education and the partners in addition to the Defence Department is that the fire department, the police, the penitentiary staff and the private surveillance sector are still in progress, before the curriculum parts are completed. Defense will be responsible for about a third of the teaching hours available. The specific curriculum component of Defence consists of three modules: firstly, information and orientation, courses or visits aimed at informing young people about Defence in general, enabling them to discover the specific characteristics of military life and to encourage their interest in making such a career choice possible with knowledge; secondly, selection and recruitment, training in preparation for admission tests; thirdly, skills and values, courses and internships aimed at learning skills from basic training, the application of military values and a general picture of the role of Defence at national and international level. The specific military subjects will be given by members of Defence, in particular by the reserve framework, reinforced, if necessary, by soldiers of the active framework who have the necessary knowledge and competences in the fields taught. Their educational training is planned with the competent departments within Defence to take account of the specificity of technical education. The classical subjects of secondary education, such as languages and mathematics, are taught by the teachers of the schools concerned. Practical trainings will be organised within the Ministry of Defence as part of the curriculum. These practical training courses will be planned during the school year and therefore outside the summer holidays. With the programme Security and Defence we offer the young people the opportunity to make an informed career choice. Therefore, each partner will prepare the students for the various entrance tests. Afterwards, at the end of the training course, students will make their own choice through the registration of the admission tests of the chosen profession. At the Defence level, we are working on drawing up the lists as well as selecting the teachers. Their educational training is planned with the relevant departments within the Ministry of Defence. The necessary material resources are already available. The practical organisation of the curriculum with the schools will be launched once the list of selected schools is known. According to Flemish education, that list will be available in April 2021. The partner consultation with Flemish education is in the process of drawing up the curriculum. The consultations with the French Community have been delayed, inter alia because of the covid conditions. Defence has restarted its formal contacts with the Minister of Education's cabinet on 8 December 2020. A consultation is planned with all partners. The application for recognition of the professional qualification of soldier sailor has already been delivered to the competent departments of the French Community, le Service francophone des métiers et des qualifications. The aim of French-speaking education is to start the course in the school year 2022-2023. The number of schools is limited to 16 schools in Flanders. The French Community provides for a similar number of schools. To stimulate the interest of young people, a specific web page will be opened on the Defence website. Communication on the new direction of education will also be ensured by the student guidance centres. Information brochures will be made available to parents and pupils. A number of schools have already shown their interest in this subject, through direct contact with the relevant departments of Defence. We therefore trust that the organizing schools themselves will provide the necessary publicity for this new area of study. All partners signed a covenant with Flemish education on 30 September 2020, which provides for the establishment of an advisory committee. Defense is represented on this committee. The evaluation of the training will be carried out through this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u23	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister, in which you gave a full overview of the current state of affairs. The discussions and discussions with the various actors are progressing in a constructive way and are progressing well. Time's running out. If we want to start the training package on 1 September, we will first have to go through a serious lead. You referred to it yourself. You talked about 16 schools. Mr Pillen pointed out that the schools indicated that they were a bit alone in communicating about the new direction. If that is the case, of course that is not good. I have also understood that information brochures are being worked on and that the Flemish government will make them available. Maybe it's interesting that Defense is promoting that training package specifically for the target group of 15- and 16-year-olds. We are now focusing on that group to ensure that they take the step towards that training. I think there's a lot of potential in that. There are opportunities to familiarize these people with what Defence has to offer and thus to structurally lower the threshold to Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u24	Your answer was indeed very detailed, Madam Secretary. We're running out of time, that's right. September's actually the day after tomorrow. I have the impression that the various partners are very well consulted, despite both federal and Community powers. That works very well. You also reassured me in the field of communication. It is a very good thing that the student guidance centres are involved, for example to help finding students. I found yesterday that the information has not yet got through to those involved, but, as I said in my question and Mr Buysrogge, it is important for the defence sector to play a role in this through its channels, because it is also about its future. We'll follow it up, but it looks good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u25	Mr President, Mr Defossé, as you point out in your question, the Organic Law of the Intelligence and Security Services of 30 November 1998 recognizes only two intelligence services: the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat. As the ISTAR battalion is not part of the SGRS, it is not legally under the control of the R Committee, as is the case with these two intelligence services. The current protocol was developed in 2018 as a short-term solution, establishing a technical and legal control of the capabilities of the ISTAR battalion by the SGRS. The purpose of this protocol is only to clearly identify the responsibilities and competencies of the HUMINT and ISTAR battalion analysis capabilities. As a result, there is currently no legal solution for more intrusive intelligence collection. Although the protocol has been extended for a two-year period, as of May 24, 2020, the Defence Staff and my firm are currently working together on a first draft of tactical intelligence legislation that will provide a lasting solution to this problem, in accordance with the rule of law. We are currently only in the early stages of an exchange of ideas. So it's too early to give you more details on the proposed leads. But we should be able to communicate the first elements in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. It would indeed be desirable to give a clear framework for such monitoring. I am therefore pleased to hear that you are looking into the matter. It is true that the harvested elements are rarely sensitive. However, this remains an intelligence activity. Control must therefore be able to exercise itself seriously. Indeed, it is not impossible to find ourselves, one day, having to deal with a delicate situation, as a result of the current DIY. I am therefore looking forward to reading the text of your draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u27	Minister, "We say yes to Iron-Man's armor and not to Spider-Man's increase and genetic mutation." This sentence is not the result of a Marvel film, but was pronounced by the French Minister of the Army, Florence Parly, since it announced at the beginning of December that the French army was now allowed to develop "increased" soldiers - although I do not know if it will be the case of their pay, while I know that ours will benefit - that is, fighters whose physical or cognitive abilities will have been increased thanks to technology. This announcement comes after a French Defence Ethics Committee gave a favourable opinion on the expansion of military capabilities in an invasive manner, to a certain extent in the way in which these techniques are used. In this context, before declaring that the so-called "invasive" developments will not be entitled to a city within the French armies, your counterpart said that the opinion given was "not engraved in the marble" and that it would be "regularly reconsidered in the light of the next developments". In the meantime, the French minister indicated that she would prefer the implant, for example, of electronic chips in uniforms. Nevertheless, Mrs Parly also pointed out that "other powers will probably have less scruples" and that this is "a future to which we must prepare". Minister, what is your position in this area, given the research or projects that have been completed or are under way? I am thinking in particular of the BEST programme. Has Belgium initiated or participated multilaterally in discussions, forums and forward-looking working groups to explore the scope of possible activities in this area? In this case, have discussions started within NATO, the European Union and the European Defence Agency? What ethical red lines do you intend to enforce? What are the risks to the soldier's human dignity and free will? What, if any, is the balance to be struck between the pure - but totally disruptive - strategic interest and the legal and ethical limits already posed by the idea of resorting to such technological, medical, etc.- Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u28	Madam Minister, like my colleague Lacroix, I would also like to ask you about this "super-soldier" advocated by French Defence. Specifically, the Department of Defence's Ethics Committee has opened the door to the use of new ways to improve the operational capabilities of the military. To do this, it is possible that in a few years the limit of man's body barrier will be overcome in order to increase his physical, cognitive and psychological abilities. Even if Europe is still scrupulous about evasive developments, we must, however, prepare for this technology which sooner or later, in one way or another, will be implemented. In fact, it comes to my mind that Belgium has also addressed this issue in the past through its Belgian Transformation Soldier programme, but the soldier said "increased" is no longer relevant. This runway was no longer operated. Minister, my questions are very simple. Like our French neighbours, do we intend to resume studies on this subject? What about the Belgian Transformation Soldier program? Are any studies carried out on this subject in Belgium? Do we already have results or reflections? Finally, how many research resources does our country make available to achieve an outcome in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u29	Minister, I'm going to make you a confession. I like Marvel very much, but I am still concerned because it must remain an entertainment and there, as Mr Lacroix and Mrs Jadin have already pointed out, the Defence Ethics Committee of our French neighbours has published its opinion on the increased soldiers. This concerns both the increase in external capacity (equipment, exoskeleton, etc.) internal (integrated chips, cerebral implants). In summary, while the French Defence prefers to put the package on the equipment rather than touch the body, the Ethics Committee's report recalls, however, that it is "necessary not to inhibit research on the increased soldier in order to avoid any risk of capacitar stalling of our armies". This means that while our neighbours rely mainly on "alternatives to invasive transformations, i.e. increases that do not cross the body barrier" as Florence Parly said, the Committee nevertheless considers that it is still necessary to invest in research into the physical transformation of soldiers' bodies. I believe this raises serious ethical questions and I would like to know the government's position on these new technological opportunities. What is your opinion on the matter? Can we imagine that the Belgian Defence is part of this movement? What is the status of the BEST program today? Is there already in the Belgian Defence arsenal any equipment similar to that of increased soldiers? Is the government considering the creation of an ethics committee like the one that exists across the Pacific? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u30	Belgian Defence is currently conducting no research on improving human performance through the application of technology, as mentioned by the French Minister of the Armed Forces. Although human improvement technologies are being studied in the much broader area of monitoring and improving human performance by the NATO and the European Defence Agency (EDA) working groups, no Belgian representative participates in the working group on human improvement technologies. Belgium is therefore not involved in these developments and does not make available resources for research in this field. The ethical red lines to be respected for the military are the same as for civilians and are contained in the Medical Code of Ethics of the Order of Physicians. In addition, Defence has a commission for the legal assessment of new weapons and new means or methods of warfare to which any new weapon, new means or method of warfare must be submitted. The Commission shall carry out a legal assessment and give reasoned and detailed advice on any request, but shall also take into account ethical considerations. The Belgian Soldier Transformation (BEST) programme aimed at substantially modernizing the soldier's equipment and not at improving human performance through the application of technology. These included individual weapons, night vision equipment, combat clothing, ballistic protection equipment, communications and sensors that could provide information on the operational status of military personnel in the field. The name BEST has been abandoned. We're talking today about a soldier equipment. The modernization envisaged by this programme is under way and the acquisition of the various equipment mentioned above is partly planned. Only the sensor component is currently suspended pending new technological developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u31	I take note with satisfaction of the Minister's responses. It seems that at Belgian level we are not concerned with these changes and that it is not the government's intention to start research on this subject. However, you reassure me by explaining that for all new weapons, any new mode of warfare, a legal assessment is carried out by your services, or related services, according to ethical principles that are just as important as the principles of efficiency, efficiency, autonomy, etc. Simply, I think that in the coming months, the next few years, and therefore perhaps within the framework of your Strategic Vision, it would be interesting to have a chapter dedicated to this, as well as your commitment in terms of cybersecurity. We will not escape a positioning of Belgium in the future, either through NATO's positioning, and you have explained the working groups that meet there, or at the level of the European Defence Agency and within the framework of a future defence Europe. But I know that you will be vigilant to ensure that ethical principles are always observed within the framework of the Belgian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u32	Madam Minister, your answers are reassuring. Of course, technological developments will lead to this type of question. It goes without saying, and I have heard, Madam Minister, that this must always be done in accordance with ethical principles in this area, but also in compliance with the laws in force. If necessary, these will have to evolve. We will have a debate together here on this. Thank you already for your answers to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u33	Minister, thank you for that answer. I hear that we have no plans within Defence that go in this direction, and that reassures me. Nevertheless, as my two colleagues have already pointed out, we know that this kind of progress, if we can call it that way, will one day be more than a fantasy or science fiction. It is clear that several countries are already investing in this technology. We have to deal with an important ethical issue. Can we, yes or no, consider using them for our own defence or in collaboration with countries that use them? Can we consider crossing the skin barrier and grafting implants to increase physical and psychological abilities? I believe that these questions, we must ask ourselves as soon as possible and consider a legal and ethical framework on this matter now. As such, an ethics committee that is more advanced than a legal committee seems to me to be a first step, provided that it works towards a truly balanced composition. Other warning systems can also be put in place to prevent us from rationalizing this dangerous turn and getting out of the way of our values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u34	Madam Minister, on 1 January the United Kingdom finally came out of the European Union in concrete terms. Its new relationship with the 27 is governed by a trade agreement on the movement of goods and trade in goods. This agreement actually signifies a minimal relationship with the European Union. Nothing has been concluded, for example, on cooperation in the field of foreign policy, foreign security and defence. With the departure of London, it is therefore a part of the European military force that is taking its distance. The European defence budget was EUR 40 billion a year, of which EUR 10 billion was British, the same as France. This is the ad hoc envelope amputated by a quarter. In this context, with the United States, Britain must obviously remain an ally and, as part of the construction of a defence Europe, it remains of course a fundamental player as a partner or partner. A way of cooperation remains to be found, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson does not seem to have given any signals to that effect at this time. This is even the opposite: at the end of November 2020, the British Prime Minister announced the largest increase in the British defence budget in 30 years, including the creation of a new space command to send British satellites into space and a first British rocket since Scotland by 2022. We will see if Scotland is still in the United Kingdom at that time. Madam Minister, since Brexit does not finally contain any agreement on European defence policy, what is your position on the reasons and, above all, the consequences of this non-agreement on the common ambition in European defence and on the strategic partnerships to be forged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u35	Mr Lacroix, the agreement signed on 24 December 2020 between the European Union and the United Kingdom does not actually provide for almost anything in the areas related to security and defence policy. The United Kingdom has decided to exclude this aspect during the negotiations despite the desire of the Member States of the European Union to reach an agreement. However, this agreement concludes a component on cybersecurity and on the exchange of classified information. With regard to the consequences of this non-agreement on common defence ambitions, the joint efforts currently being undertaken by the Member States will continue at European Union level without the United Kingdom. At this stage, it is undeniable that the British's exit from the Union without full agreement in this area will have a significant impact on the common security and defence policy. From now on, the United Kingdom will only be able to participate in capacity development projects or in the missions and operations of the common security and defence policy under the status of a third State. Brexit does not, however, affect bilateral cooperation between Belgian and British forces that have existed for decades, such as the operational certification of our frigates, the crew exchanges of A400M transport aircraft or the use of simulators. The establishment of defence attachés in both capitals in 2019 also demonstrates the desire to maintain bilateral cooperation between our armed forces. This cooperation will continue with respect for the various organisations of which Belgium is a member. In addition, we continue to work with the British in other multilateral frameworks such as, for example, the European Intervention Initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u36	Minister, once again, your answer is very complete and very clear. While cooperation with the British in the European Union is almost impossible, in any case until Boris Johnson changes his shoulder rifle, it is nevertheless true that bilateral contacts continue closely with collaborations that are effective and essential for both countries, and I welcome this. I will end by saying that Boris Johnson often claims Winston Churchill. He boasts to be somewhere the spiritual and political heir. I would remind you that Winston Churchull has always been in favour of the United States of Europe, as he called it, with Britain not being part of it but with Britain as a strategic and military partner of these United States of Europe. It may be necessary, at some point, to remind Boris Johnson of his filiation, as he should conceive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u37	The representatives of the National Federation of War Orphans 1940-1945 reiterated to me their disappointment at the request for free care for war orphans, which was denied to them, but which is nevertheless well accorded to orphans of political prisoners, children of hidden Jews and Travellers. Indeed, the Supreme Council of War Invalids gave a negative opinion to the bill that I had tabled in 2015 to that effect. It is therefore regrettable that the orphans of soldiers killed in the war are not recognized and do not yet have fair rights to other recognized categories of reparation. Minister, would it be possible to reconsider this request despite the negative opinion of the Supreme Council of War Invalids? What are the benefits granted to the above categories? How many war orphans do they still live in Belgium? What about the number of other categories? How many are they still in the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u38	Mrs Jadin, for the sake of maintaining the balance built in terms of reparation and national recognition, I respect the unfavorable opinion expressed by the Supreme Council of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims on the bill introduced on 15 September 2015 to harmonise the benefits granted to orphans of political prisoners and war orphans. With regard to the benefits of orphans of father and mother, both of whom have died on deportation from Belgium or victims of racial persecution, they can obtain a lifetime pension of 831 euros per year on the basis of the Act of 11 April 2003. They are also entitled to reimbursement of the user ticket by the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance (CAAMI) and to free public transport in Belgium. Orphans of political prisoners are entitled to reimbursement of the user ticket by CAAMI and to free public transport in Belgium. They received a pension from eligible persons up to the age of majority. The war orphans 1940-1945 were not forgotten by the legislator either. They were entitled to free medical care up to the age of majority or upon completion of their studies, if they continue after the age of 18, but do not exceed the age of 25. In addition, they receive increased family allowances for the same period. Incapacitated orphans retain these benefits for life. The Defence does not have the number of orphans per category. For this information, I propose to contact the Civil Victims of War and Terrorism Unit of the SPF Pensions and CAAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to my information, the mayor of the municipality of Bullange has recently sent you a letter expressing his concerns about certain shooting exercises at the Elsenborn camp in the evening. I read it in the press. The mayor did not consider it useful to inform me of the contents of this letter. I recall that some citizens were scared or scared when the Defence conducted exercises for quite unusual hours. With more extensive communication with the citizens, I believe that this concern could easily be removed. Minister, have you received this letter? How can we remedy this situation in order to allow the Defence to do the necessary exercises and calm the fears of some of my fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the mayor of Bullange has indeed sent me a letter dated 3 December 2020, in which he reports the complaints of his fellow citizens concerning the noise pollution caused by the shootings at the Elsenborn camp. Mr. Wirtz also pointed out that the number of shots had reached a limit that his administration could no longer bear. There are good-neighbourly agreements between the commune and the Elsenborn camp which set the limits of fire. This regulation has always been scrupulously observed. As far as the number of shots is concerned, 2020 has the lowest number of exercises in the last 20 years. By comparison, 42,131 shots were recorded in 2019, compared to only 10,771 in 2020. For the night exercises, in November 2020, only three evenings were used for exercises after 8:30 p.m. They have never exceeded the prescribed time, which allows fire until 11 p.m. The Defence is aware of the inconveniences that these noise nuisances can cause. This is why it is committed to limiting exercise periods to the maximum. However, this commitment cannot interfere with operational requirements and affect the proper functioning of Defence. Regarding communication with the population, the Defence systematically publishes the shooting schedule for the next two weeks on its Mil.be website under the tab "Agenda, major manoeuvres, shooting exercises in Elsenborn".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for the useful information you have given. A difference between feeling and reality can exist. When one refers to the figures, one can actually see that things are not perceived in the same way and probably do not correspond to the feeling one can have. Anyway, I can't wait to read your answer, knowing that the information will have to flow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u43	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, this government wishes to make use of a number of European Union grants to make a number of investments in defence. These include specific projects for new developments, military mobility, developing medical assistance, financing barracks and operationalising the cyber component. A great deal has been said in recent weeks about the resources that Belgium will receive from the European Recovery Fund. It would be EUR 5.9 billion. We understand from your colleague, Mr Dermine, that EUR 100 million of this would go to the Defense Department, specifically for the construction of the barracks of the future. Is that information correct? Can you indicate which projects Defence is developing to be eligible for European funding? How much money do you want to get for each project? I am not just talking about the EUR 100 million. What priority did the DOD give to these projects? Which projects would be eligible first? Are there any projects that will not continue without full or partial European funding? That seems important to me to know. When drawing up the wish list of investment projects for Defence, was there cooperation with the Länder or other departments of the federal government to increase the chances of selection for the projects? If so, for which projects? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u44	Mr President, Mr Buysrogge, Defence has presented a number of priority projects in the areas of digital, sustainability and inclusive. Two projects were blocked. It concerns strengthening the existing cyber capacity for a sum of 29 million euros and of 'the quarter of the future', for a sum of 100 million euros. Europe's funding is necessary for the feasibility of the projects, as Defence can only finance a small part. In the field of digital, Defence has submitted a joint sheet at federal level, together with the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium, Foreign Affairs and Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and De Post.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u45	Madam Secretary, I remember two elements from your reply. That EUR 29 million for existing cyber capacity is new information and we were already aware of that EUR 100 million for those quarters of the future. Is there any more insight into how exactly that amount of EUR 100 million has been compiled? I will assume that it concerns the development of these new barracks and the realization of the barracks of the future. Or are we talking about additional matters, in addition to the ambition to build two barracks in Hainaut and East Flanders? I assume that this is indeed the case, but the question remains as to what the distribution key of the EUR 100 million looks like. You also say that these projects depend on subsidies. If there were still a kink in the cable somewhere and that EUR 100 million is not allocated to the Defense Department, would this be a problem? I will certainly follow this up in my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u46	Madam Secretary, the replacement of our frigates is an important dossier to guarantee the future of our navy and it has been some time since we had a state of affairs in the Committee on Army Procurement. I should like to refer to the questions that have been put. I'd like to highlight an element. Apparently, there is a certain evolution in the size of the vessel. On the Dutch side, it is also indicated that the programme needs to be cut because of the tight Belgian funding. Some clarification about the programme of demands and cooperation with the Netherlands would therefore be appropriate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u47	Madam Minister, my questions are similar to those of Mr Buysrogge. A budget of EUR 1 billion was committed in 2015. I hear from various sources that there is a difference in vision between the Belgian and the Dutch teams. Is that right? Could you give me some more information about that? There was also a lot to do about a perfectly responsible diplomatic contact between you and the Chinese ambassador. I do not have any questions about this myself, but I would like to know if you have had any contact with your Dutch colleague. After all, we work intensively and well with this country in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u48	At the end of November 2020, a concept design phase was agreed between the Belgian-Dutch project agency and the future shipbuilder Damen Schelde Naval Shipbuilding (DSNS). It is an agreement supported by all the parties concerned. The length of the design is currently about 133 metres with a displacement of about 5,700 tonnes. However, those parameters will not be definitively established until the contract is signed. Decisions in this project are always taken in consultation between Belgium and the Netherlands. In doing so, the agreements of the Memorandum of Understanding for the replacement of the M-frigates of 8 June 2018 should be respected. In order to strike a balance between the future platforms and the budgets set out in the above memorandum of understanding, a number of compromises have been reached. These compromises do not affect the vision of the two Navys and take into account a growth potential for future frigates. Belgium has chosen to provide a number of provisions for a number of subsystems. This took into account the operational employability of future frigates. The current configuration thus still meets the requirements of our future frigates. Those choices have had no impact on the good relations within the cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium. Several contracts will be concluded for this project, the largest being the shipbuilding contract with DSNS. However, the memorandum of understanding has set the budgetary ceilings for both Belgium and the Netherlands. It is therefore the responsibility of the binational project agency to respect the agreements made in the Memorandum of Understanding. The possible realisation of the BMD capacity is not covered by the Memorandum of Understanding and the foreseen budget. The planned Sewaco systems for this project are not yet all fixed and are also contracted separately from the future shipbuilding contract. The Dutch purchasing process has yet to be completed in this matter. An exception to this is the XS-band radar suite, where will be contracted with Thales Nederland. The future platforms will be able to bring two unmanned surface vehicles. Space is also provided to integrate two vertical launch systems on board, whereby the maximum filling rate for each VLS can be used according to the type of missile. For Belgium, one of the two VLS is referred to as "provisions for'. The Sewaco systems for the Belgian platforms will ensure the operationality of the ships. As a function of a possible changing future threat, the provisions for systems for Belgium could be further completed in the future. There is a foreign interest in this project. Discussions are ongoing and the impact on the programme needs to be further developed. Here too, the agreements made in the memorandum of understanding are decisive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Compromise with the Netherlands will be achieved. I think this is important and that the file is not blocked. There are still a lot of choices to be made about what that device will be able to do in the future. This will be done through separate procedures, so I assume that we will soon be able to discuss further in the closed commission on Army Purchases how this will proceed in a procedural manner and whether it will then be completely separate from the Netherlands or whether we will do so together. I'm looking forward to that. I also had a question about the Belgian ambition to contribute to Ballistic Missile Defense. It is not entirely clear to me whether it will still be there or not. I am counting on this dossier to continue. If it turns out that the budgets are inadequate, I would suggest that we do not too much cutting back on the future capabilities of these aircraft, which are important for the defence and for the Navy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u50	Madam Minister, it is true that we will often have the opportunity to ask questions about this at the closed meeting on the purchase of the army. It is certainly a good thing that your answer is an incentive to try to get rid of such rumours. It is not good that such stories about important partners such as the Netherlands and Belgium are circulating. So this is being prosecuted. Mr Buysrogge, it is, of course, easy from the opposition to say a little more money. The program law is what she is. It has also been confirmed, despite previous signals. I remember it well. The government was barely installed and it was immediately said that all her work had to be thrown into the trash. That didn't happen. I believe that we should, above all, let the binational teams do their job now. We will follow that closely in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u51	Mr President, Minister, Christmas has now passed. We were told on the committee this morning where Defense is still operating abroad. This is a very important committee where we get confidential information, for which we are grateful. We are also active in Jordan with F16 pilots and ground personnel. Maintaining the morale of the staff is an ambition for all of us. It's important that those men and women feel good there. We expect and demand a lot of them. It is important that they are properly framed. It may be a failure diverse, but not unimportant to morale. We received reports that on Christmas Eve the host, the Germans, had not even been given a space in the barracks to celebrate together. There was no possibility of eating lunch together. This may be a failure diverse, but I can put this into perspective, but it's important to know the nice thing about this. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that our men in Jordan were not in a position to celebrate Christmas in a normal way, in accordance with the corona measures? Why is that? Is there a need for better agreements with our coalition partners on the basis to avoid such incidents and improve the living conditions of our troops in Azraq? Were any such incidents reported to the DOD? What efforts will you make in this respect? I know you've made a digital visit to all of our military personnel. I think it's important to invest in morale. If anything could be done about these little things, that would be excellent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u52	Mr President, Mr Buysrogge, I can assure you that every year, the Defense Department makes every effort to give our troops who spend the holidays in operation, far from home and loved ones, the opportunity to spend this period in the best possible conditions. For example, the detachment commander of our contingent in Azraq has made every effort to celebrate a memorable Christmas together with his men. However, in operations the possibilities are always limited and the so-called real life support is mostly made use of external service providers and coalition partners. In Azraq, meals and other services are provided by a local service agency. To offer the detachment members a worthy Christmas dinner and to meet the necessary gifts, the local command agreed to leave the end of breakfast on Christmas Day exceptionally by two hours and offer an alternative light lunch in the relaxation room, which is shared with the German men in the camp. At 5.30 p.m., the entire quota was offered a very well-kept three-course Christmas dinner, which was reportedly greatly appreciated by the detachment members. In that sense, the coverage to which you refer is rather surprising and unfounded with regard to the efforts of the local command in Azraq. There has so far been no mention of any lack of living conditions and support services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u53	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with your answer. I assume that the information you provide is correct, but I will still tell you in confidence where I got my information, because the two versions are not entirely consistent. We all have to maintain morale, so we have no message that this would not be the case. If the information were different, we would all have the task of ensuring that the moral and the circumstances are right, now and in the future, for our military abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u54	Defence will purchase new civil armoured cars from an Austrian manufacturer for 1.17 million euros. The file would contain a multi-annual open contract for technical assistance and several conditional instalments, allowing Defence to expand its fleet to 36 SUVs and 6 pick-ups by 2026. What vehicle did the DOD choose? Can you explain the contract? Does this amount amount to EUR 1.17 million for all cars together, including the maintenance contract? Which conditional instalments were built in? Vehicles shall provide passive protection against ballistic missiles, mines and IEDs, without showing significant differences with the base vehicle. Given the sharp increase in IEDs in the operating theatres where Defense is now active, does the vehicle offer improved protection compared to the current Toyota Land Cruisers? A number of services would use the fleet. How is that practically arranged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u55	The civil armoured car or CAV is a discreet vehicle that can operate in civilian environments and has two axles with a permanent or switchable 4x4 drive and fixed ballistic protection and mining and IED protection. The amount of EUR 1.17 million concerns the purchase of six vehicles without technical assistance. No information on the nature of the protection is provided here in the public committee. The contract covers up to 42 vehicles with the currently planned distribution: ADIV receives 17 vehicles, Special Forces Group 15, DAS 6, Battalion Para 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u56	Thank you for your answer. You say that the sum of EUR 1.17 million relates only to the purchase. There is therefore no mention of technical assistance. The maintenance contract will then be a separate plot, with which the market will be opened. I don't know if we'll automatically be tied to the same manufacturer. I suppose so. I can imagine that the maintenance contract also represents a certain financial value. If we make the sum of the two, will we not get a total amount of money, which would mean that the file would have to be submitted to the Army Procurement Committee? As far as that is concerned, I still have questions that deserve clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u57	Madam Minister, we have talked about military mobility in the past. Belgium also has an important position as a transition country for the Allied forces. There is renewed attention within Europe and NATO to infrastructure, interconnectivity and military mobility. The need for a significant additional effort became apparent during the Defender 2020 operation, just at the outbreak of the corona crisis in which the US wanted to ship a division along the North Sea ports to Poland as a test. The relevance of rail transport along various ports and for strategic movements to the threatened borders of the NATO territory has also gained attention in recent years. In the interaction between the US representatives and the Defence Committee, the shortage of so-called deep-load wagons or flatbeds was also noted, essential for the smooth transport of our own vehicles and those of our allies. The Netherlands also has such problems and therefore signed a contract at the end of 2020 for the purchase of 70 deep-load wagons and the lease of 55 others. The Netherlands notes that Defence is still too dependent on the commercial rental offer and that there are only 200 rentals on the entire European market, of which France already leases 90 permanently. This therefore offers too little guarantee in the event of a real crisis. I have the following questions. What projects of military mobility will you be participating in in the coming years? What are the government's priorities for improvement? How many wagons can the Department of Defense claim the relocation of its vehicles? How many of these are in their own possession, how many are in SNCB or one of the agencies under SNCB and how many are in other commercial partners? What does the Defence Department intend to do to meet NATO's expectations for a smooth deployment of the Eastern flank? Does the DOD feel the need for an additional investment in deep-load wagons? If so, are there any projects running around here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u58	Mr Buysrogge, Belgium is already participating in the PESCO project Military Mobility, together with many other Member States. Within this project, four objectives are to be pursued: the preparation of a national implementation plan under Military Mobility; the use of a network of contacts allowing faster processing of requests for authorisation to cross a country; the authorisation of all transport applications within five working days. At present, Belgium is actively contributing to the preparation of a technical arrangement for military air and surface transport in this context. Test the procedures within exercises such as Defender-Europe 2020. In addition, we contribute to achieving the objectives set out in the European Commission's Action Plan on Military Mobility. In the framework of an interdepartmental cooperation with the FPS Mobility and Transport, the Regions and the ports, Defence has been able to express its priorities on the infrastructure projects planned by these partners. For example, concrete proposals were made to increase the capacity of some motorways near the ports, and to provide a parallel track on which a military train can be placed when another train has to pass. More information can be obtained from the FPS Mobility and Transport and from the regions. We also participate in the PESCO project, the Network of Logistic Hubs in Europe and Support of Operations, which establishes a network of logistics nodes to support deployment in the framework of the operations. Belgium does not own wagons. A letter of agreement with the Netherlands is used for rail transport, which in turn contracts a commercial partner such as DB Shenker. SNCB does not own its own wagons anymore. In practical terms, therefore, we are always calling on a commercial partner for rail transport. A development is always carried out after a thorough planning, with all available transport vectors being considered. Preferably heavy equipment, such as track vehicles, will be developed by rail. However, Belgium has chosen to include mainly wheeled vehicles as fighting capacity in its heritage and thus opt for higher mobility. A development can therefore be done almost entirely by road, if no transport by rail is possible. The acquisition of additional capacity of deep-load wagons should be considered mainly at a multinational level within Europe in order to avoid their use at national level too little. There is, for example, a project within the NSPA that looks at how a common purchase and use is possible. Specifically, if not used for military purposes, the wagons would be made available to commercial partners. An analysis to join the project is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note that a great deal still needs to be done before rail mobility is effectively implemented. Fortunately, we still have vehicles that can just drive and there are still roads that we can use, which is always more obvious in order to be mobile with our military. However, Madam Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u60	The purpose of the purchased MQ-9B is to collect information. A possible armament of the aircraft is not at issue now and was not investigated by the Defense Department either. In the current agreement and the future agreement with the British, there is no cooperation on arms, but on the airworthiness and training of the crew and maintenance personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u61	Madam Secretary, it was indeed known that these drones would not be armed at the moment. The prospect, however, was that they would be armorable and I assume that this is still the case and that this possibility will therefore continue to exist. I assume that you have not made any new choices on this, I am simply trying to understand your short answer. The possibility is therefore open to getting that organised in the future. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u62	Madam Minister, under your predecessor, there was some consternation at one point when the annual flight plan for the NH90 became known, as it included a limit to about 600 hours, in order to free up part of the ground staff for the maintenance of the aircraft and also to reduce costs. The aircraft would no longer be used in foreign operations. Your predecessor, Minister Goffin, indicated that different ideas would be examined in order to possibly replace them. The first results would be presented in the context of the forthcoming government negotiations. No secret was made of the fact that Defense hopes for a lighter, more mature, more maintenance-friendly and cheaper device that will eventually allow uniforming of the helicopter fleet. It also looks at the replacement of Agusta helicopters, as they should disappear completely by 2030. Madam Minister, my detailed questions are listed in my written question. We would like to hear a full overview, a state of play in the Agusta's replacement programmes and the possible replacement of the NH90. What has been the result of the research of the different ideas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u63	Madam Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled. I have questions about the A109 and the NH90 TTH, with specifically the same questions as Mr Buysrogge about the life expectancy of the devices and about the updates that are to come or are not, because that is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u64	I would also have liked you to tell me specifically about the NATOfregathelicopter NH90 how many aircraft should be available for the search and rescue tasks assigned to them. You may recall my plea in this regard in the context of the policy paper. I really fear that we of the type NH90 will have a very short-term shortage of aircraft, especially if you know that in July the Alouette III will disappear, at last, after more than fifty years of service. As I believe there is a risk there, I would like to hear your opinion on this. The Alouette III disappears and the A109 also has a limited future. It's just the question, I'm waiting for your answer, what the TTH will bring. In short, we will have to consider the future of helicopter capacity in the Defense Department. I hear a lot of noise on the subject. I understand that within the Defense Department, and apparently already at your level, there is thought about the replacement, in particular through the purchase of a fleet of LUH helicopters. I would also refer to the text of my question as tabled. Finally, I would like to reiterate the need to create, once and for all, a vision of helicopter capacity in our defense for the next few decades. That wasn't a successful marriage in recent years. I wrote an opinion piece about it. I don't know if you've read it. It has even been translated into French by a real fan of those helicopters. We must therefore work on such a strategy. I'm really looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u65	Madam President, the coalition agreement provides for an update of the strategic vision and of the military programming law. Several slopes are currently being looked at for the helicopter fleet, taking into account possible anchoring with the privileged partners. I refer to my answer to the written parliamentary question No. 22 by Ms Jadin of 30 October 2020, as well as to the replies given by Minister Philippe Goffin in the Committee for Defence of 15 July 2020. The study on Defense's future helicopter capacity to support the medical and land component is still ongoing. The results will be presented to me in the near future. In this context, the question can only be addressed in greater depth when I have all the elements at my disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u66	Madam Secretary, the thinking is still ongoing. It is important to think about this important capacity. So we can't really say much right now. We can reflect on it. It is important that we think carefully about making sensible decisions. Is it intended that this will be discussed with Parliament, either in the Committee on Army Purchasing or here? I'm curious. However, I think it is important to make sensible decisions there. I'm sure I'll come back to find out where we are. You said there'd be something on the table next day. Mr Pillen, we are too early with our question. Maybe we should've waited till after the crocus break. In any case, I look forward to continuing these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u67	Madam Secretary, there is indeed a lot of study and thinking. I have the impression that this has been going on for a while, which is positive. We need to think very carefully about what the near future will bring in terms of helicopter capacity in the case of the Defense Department, and hopefully at your level as well. The past was not a good example to follow over the next decades. I think we should think very seriously about this and, if possible, involve Parliament. In two weeks, there will be a new round of questions. We'll follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the late hour, we shall now turn to the final question, which belongs to Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u69	Mr President, I hope that we can finish all the questions because they have been on the agenda for a long time. I regret that we sometimes find out more behind closed doors in the sitting about the operational operation, which, in my view, does not contain military secrets for the most part, than in the committee itself. I hope we can improve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u70	We already discussed the operational framework 2020-2021 in committee. You stated that there is a possibility to participate in Operation Barkhane with a Combined Arms Tactical Sub Group. There should be another debate and it should still be looked at. That would still be discussed in depth in Parliament. Since then, there has been a lot of bad news about Operation Barkhane. Many French soldiers have been killed and many have been injured. Things are going very badly in Mali. It's a real hornet's nest. There's even drone capacity there now. None of that is right. The French President has once again raised the question of what is still happening there, if the political situation in Mali does not improve, and whether troops should not be moved to other theatres, reducing capacity in the Sahel or at least in Mali. In short, the French President wants to phase out the Barkhane operation rather than expand it. I have some questions about what might be the most controversial dossier of your policy period. I do not see much enthusiasm for possible participation in the operation among the Green and Ecolo colleagues and there are many critical questions with sp.a and other parties. Where are you on the way to developing the plans for possible participation in Operation Barkhane? Which units are eligible to perform the operation? Have the necessary training programmes been started to prepare them for this? You have now met your French colleague Florence Parly; we can assume that Belgian participation in their operation was discussed. What agreements are there with the French at the moment? When do they expect a formal response from us about our possible participation in Operation Barkhane? What conditions do you and the defence staff make for our participation in your contacts with the French? Was the possibility to integrate a Belgian Red Card Holder, or even to integrate Belgian participation in the operational command of the operation discussed? The joint summit of France and the G5 Sahel in Chad should soon be decisive for the possible withdrawal of the French and the further roll-out of the Takuba Task Force. Is the government waiting for the outcome of this? If not, when do you expect to come to Parliament? That last question is partly undermined by the timing. So what will happen now? When are you gonna make a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u71	Mr President, we would all like to be able to move forward on the issues. I would point out that, at your request, I made myself available for additional sessions, particularly in fifteen days. The feasibility of participating in Operation Barkhane is still under consideration. The various units of the motorised brigade eligible for this are prepared to the maximum extent as part of their daily training. No concrete agreements were made with the French Minister Parly and no deadlines were agreed. In the event of a possible deployment, Belgian staff officers will be integrated into the operational staff of Barkhane, so that we will be fully involved in the planning process of each operation and have the opportunity not to allow the Belgian detachment to participate in specific operations. The national approval authority is comparable to the red card holder and will ensure that the assignment is carried out in accordance with the mandate. A possible participation in the Takuba Task Force is currently being investigated by the Defence Staff. As I mentioned in my policy paper, any commitment will be the subject of a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u72	Madam Secretary, you have not yet decided and no deadlines have yet been agreed. It's being studied further. Belgian officers would also integrate into the operational staff anyway and there will be a kind of Belgian red card holder system, even if it is called otherwise, according to the mandate. A participation in Takuba is also on the table. We'll follow it up. You know our reservations about the theater in Mali. We shall continue the debate, Madam Secretary. I will continue to question you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic375x.u73	Colleagues, we'll see each other in two weeks for another questioning session.
