ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u1	Mrs. Gilson is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, I wanted to talk to you about an Austrian NGO that is known to fight for the protection of privacy and that has just launched a campaign of complaints against websites that would circumvent GDPR legislation. According to the NGO, no less than 560 companies - including 20 Belgian sites - in the European Union are currently in breach. According to European law, the consumer must be able to consent or not to the use of cookies, which store information about our preferences on the web. However, on some sites, the button to refuse the use of cookies is absent, so that free consent is blurred. Mr Secretary of State, have you been aware of the denunciation of these facts by the Austrian NGO and of its action? What are you planning to do to combat this type of crime, particularly by Belgian sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u3	Madam Member, I have taken note of the study produced by the Austrian NGO "None of your business", which has undertaken an important analysis of the use of cookies and has called on 560 sites to comply with the GDPR. As you mentioned, several sites would be affected in Belgium – a priori, about twenty. Moreover, I had the opportunity to highlight this in a previous oral question. Indeed, the regulation of cookies is complex, in particular because, in addition to the GDPR, the European Directive on privacy and electronic communications is also applicable in this area. This complexity certainly does not facilitate the application of user rights with regard to the use of cookies. Despite this complexity, ensuring informed and informed consent of users is an essential element in the transparency process that must surround digitalization and must be a priority in this regard. For my part, I identify four current or future tools that enhance this transparency process around cookies and can provide users with better control over them. At European level, we currently have the ePrivacy Directive, which requires the application of the opt-in principle. Thus, the rejection of unnecessary cookies can be controlled via browser settings for example. If the user refuses, the content of the website should still be displayed. It is also expected that this directive will soon be replaced by a new regulation currently under negotiation at EU level. Similarly, the Digital Services Act will strengthen transparency and information requirements, particularly with respect to algorithms used or online advertising. Then, at the national level, through the evaluation of the privacy law, a reflection was started on the use of cookies. This assessment will result in a series of recommendations that I will make to Parliament that should lead to a clearer and more efficient regulatory framework. In the area of monitoring, the draft law on the transposition of the European electronic communications code will transfer the IBPT's competence on cookies to ODA. In this context, I will soon ask her about her intentions with regard to the sites identified by the NGO None of Your Business and whether sites similar to the approach undertaken in France are envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u4	Thank you for this very comprehensive answer and for this additional information, Secretary of State. I didn't know you'd been asked that question before, but I'm quite satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u5	Mr President, Secretary of State, my question is a few weeks ago. At the time, on the eve of the Euro de football, the PTB had launched a campaign to support the Red Devils so that they could go as far as possible. We know what happened! The site "We are one" of the PTB offered t-shirts and masks flogged with a star (party sign) and with national colours for an amount of ten euros. Belgian flags could also be ordered free of charge with the same logo and a whole series of objects with national colours. So far, no great difficulties! Except that you did not realize that you were on the site of a political party, in this case that of the PTB. Indeed, the Facebook group strongly supported by online advertising was called "We are one" and it was necessary to click, go to the bottom of the page and read the small characters to realize that the initiative was that of a political party: the PTB! This calls on us and asks us questions. Facebook responded and asked that it be specified with a greater labeling that the initiative was that of a political party. Finally, Facebook asked the PTB to remove this page. The decision is good, but what bothers me is that Facebook did it. I would have preferred the initiative to come from a public and democratic authority and, above all, the Belgian political parties to have ethics. In this case, I distinguish several problems. I approached the first of them with Secretary of State De Bleeker. It lies in the sale of friendly objects in connection with the Red Devils, but which in fact constitute political propaganda. The consumer can therefore be deceived. This is particularly problematic since this party often denounces multinational and other companies, but it uses the same commercial and marketing practices. On the other hand, there is another fundamental problem: a political party, without any transparency, goes on social networks, finances a site by hiding behind the argument of supporting our national football team. There is a problem with the ethical behaviour of political parties in Belgium. Mr. Secretary of State, Facebook responded. How do you think we could react? Should we establish a charter of good conduct between political parties? These issues are important because I believe that this type of behaviour will only increase in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u6	Mr President, honourable Member, every political party is free to use social networks as a channel for the dissemination and promotion of its political ideas, of course, as long as it respects the rules specific to these social networks and especially as long as it complies with the laws in force. The question of the appropriateness of marketing-type communication to which you refer raises the question of the good conscience of each political party and the ideals it defends. However, the question of transparency, which you mentioned, particularly in the context of a political campaign, is, in my view, essential. The citizen must be properly informed of the objectives and identity of the broadcaster(s). To my knowledge, as you said, Facebook asked the PTB to make it clear that the commercial campaign was a political party campaign. His request was to remove any ambiguity as to the identity of the broadcaster. As I have already pointed out, it is certainly at European level that we need to put in place clear policies aimed at ensuring maximum transparency on the content disseminated by these Internet platforms and avoiding any confusion about the message or the author of a marketing or other campaign. Thus, I am convinced that, through the Digital Services Act, transparency obligations will be strengthened in many respects, particularly in relation to actions taken against illegal content, or on the basis of the conditions of use. Clear information should be provided by platforms concerning online advertising, algorithms used, etc. That is the position we are defending at Belgian level. This new obligation to transmit a series of information at the request of the competent authorities will also increase the necessary transparency as to the origin of the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. As you said, the tags to the Digital Services Act discussions are important. We support them. What has happened shows that at some point, the political actors in this case – but others are involved – will have to be able to guarantee a certain ethic in the use of social networks. I agree with you, everyone has the right to speak and even the right to finance advertisements to promote their political message. I have no problem with that, but we need full transparency. We must prevent any marketing lying to our fellow citizens, especially when we know that minors have access to Facebook with the opening of an account from the age of thirteen. One can imagine that these campaigns of support for the Red Devils touched a multitude of miners who did not realize at all that by clicking, they supported a party like the PTB. This is for us a great source of inquiry on the functioning of our democracy, quite simply. We will remain vigilant. Rules are in place. What we don't want is that Facebook itself can play the referee. For us, this is not an acceptable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic549x.u8	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr De Roover, Mr De Roover, Mr De Roover, Mr De Roover, Mr De Roover, Mr De Roover, Mr De Roover, He's not here and he hasn't said anything. So his question lapses.
