ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u1	Mr President, Minister, as from 7 February, bpost will start with a pilot project which will also be distributed on Sundays. The project was named Paksun. The permanent postmen can also sign up voluntarily on Paksun until mid-December. To attract enough candidates, bpost pays the Sunday workers 150 % of the salary and gets an extra day off from 12 worked Sundays per semester. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Have you got eyes on how many postmen have signed in? In which post offices will Paksun be applied? Are the team leaders who have to watch if everything goes well on a voluntary basis also present when working with volunteers on Sundays?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, thank you for your question and for the attention you have paid to this project. I can tell you that it was indeed possible to sign up on a voluntary basis. 591 people have volunteered. 226 test rounds will be organised at the start-up in February and 226 people will be needed. The remaining volunteers will be able to be used to ensure replacements or to cope with expected volume increases. In addition, 3,500 job students from the well-known bpost-pool of job students were contacted. Of these, 1,200 have already responded positively to participate, but given the large number of volunteers who have applied, it is possible that bpost will not have to involve students for this project. The project Paksun will take place from 18 offices and will be rolled out for the entire Belgian territory. Those offices are located in the following municipalities or regions: Antwerpen-Zuid, Antwerpen-Centrum, Mechelen, Geel, Hasselt, Leuven, Aalst, Gent-Centrum, Sint-Niklaas, Bruges, Kortrijk, Brussels-Centrum, Mont-Saint-Guibert, Fleurus, Mons, Namur, Seraing and Libramont. The sorting will take place in Brussels X, in Lower Over Heembeek, and the volunteers can count on the necessary framework at that time, as always. This means that there will be team leaders present to help, but also to offer coordination from the office where the ceremony will be organised on Sunday. This is also done on a voluntary basis. The framework is planned in consultation with the office manager and in function of weekly planning. We will monitor the evaluation of this project together with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I have a bit of my doubts about that. They used to be allowed to work on a voluntary basis on Saturdays, and they never did. Bpost then had to take that into account in Georoute because they were obliged to work on Saturdays and then they succeeded. That's why I have my doubts on Sundays, but hopefully it will work now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u4	Madam Minister, it has been some time since Proximus suggested leaving headquarters in Brussels in the media. It concerns the two remarkable towers at the Brussels North Station, the Proximus Towers. The main reason is, of course, the cost of these very large buildings, but above all that different working methods are used. This has been the case in recent years, but the corona crisis has left an even stronger mark on it. Officially, around 4,000 to 5,000 people work in the building every day. In recent years, this number has declined in part, but since the first lockdown, teleworking has become the norm. Now only a few hundred people a day go down to the towers. It goes without saying that this is not an economically viable situation. Nor should we call each other Lijzebet; in future, teleworking, whether from home or from satellite offices in provincial capitals or regional cities, will become more and more the norm. This will be the case for private companies, but also for public companies such as Proximus, that this balloon recently showed up. Madam Secretary, what vision did you have on the future of the Proximus Towers, observing the evolutions above, knowing that Proximus also owns these buildings? When will the possible relocalisation be decided? What's the new track? When will the staff be informed? There are questions from staff about this, either from uncertainty or hope for more telework. A minority fears this, but the majority is open to it. When will they be informed by their employer? Another problem is that Proximus is a large customer of SNCB and regional transport companies. In the context of the third-payer system, the free subscriptions are an extra legal advantage and perhaps also a cardigan pocket operation by public institutions, in this case from Proximus to the federal institution SNCB. Is it being considered to introduce new systems in the context of the free subscriptions paid by taxpayers? You can also discuss this with your colleague, Mr Gilkinet. What's your vision on that? People have a free annual subscription or monthly subscription and now rarely use it. It's not a logical evolution. For corona this was already a bit on the agenda, but its illogicality was reinforced by corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u5	Minister, the CEO of Proximus announced last October through a communication to all his staff that the company was likely to move in 2023. This announcement would respond to the stated desire to create a work space more conducive to the reorganization of the offices and also correspond to the prospects related to the health crisis and telework. The two Proximus towers on Boulevard Albert II in Brussels would either be renovated or sold. These two 28-storey towers, more than 100,000 m2, built in the 1990s, housed up to 6,000 employees before the crisis. Minister, what are Proximus' objectives through this real estate operation? To which option are we:sale and rentback or sale and move? When will any invitation to tender be issued? Is the 2023 move well confirmed? Are relocation projects already identified? What are the criteria for relocation? What will be the terms and conditions of sale of these towers? Will they be reserved for Belgian investors or the State? Have any contacts been made with the Brussels Region, which is currently working on the revitalization of the North Quarter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u6	Mr President, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr Toventors and Mr Parent, thank you for your questions. During Proximus' Capital Markets Day, the CEO Guillaume Boutin announced that the foundation of new investments will take place thanks, among other things, to the sale of non-strategic assets amounting to EUR 700 million. The Proximus Towers are part of this. An idea was put on the table to achieve flexibility and efficiency. First, by reducing the office space. On the basis of different parameters, it was calculated that 40,000 square meters should be sufficient for Proximus. This takes into account a higher degree of homework per employee and also regionalisation, the normal evolution of the workforce and sharing with third parties specific spaces such as an auditorium, restaurant or training rooms. The two main objectives of the new building that Proximus envisages are to promote the well-being of workers and to achieve a positive impact on the environment. A significantly smaller building will contribute to this. Based on technological support, Proximus also wants to maximise capacity utilisation. This means that if all this is brought together and the calculation is made by Proximus, it is estimated that the total number of employees in the workplace would be about 3,000. Next, Proximus intends to give the employees options so that they have the freedom to choose the best workplace taking into account the planned activities. This involves all possible workspaces: at home, but also at the office, in Brussels, also in the regions, also on the go or with customers. Proximus wants to create a campus feeling. They want to keep or implant a campus in Brussels, but also in Antwerp or other places. The aim of the Brussels campus is to promote connection, cooperation and innovation between the internal staff and partners. Proximus' headquarters will certainly remain in Brussels, the famous Brussels campus. That's obvious, that's for sure. In addition, we continue to focus on regional campuses, which are actually already there today. So what Proximus is going to do is sell the towers and rent the new Brussels campus. This is an answer to your question. Furthermore, there are no sales or rentals planned in other regions. Proximus cannot currently have an official estimate carried out by an official body, but a high-level estimate by her own broker. They wish to keep this confidential. So I cannot give you those figures until the sale is completed, which is understandable. There are several parameters that will influence the assessment, for example the fact that the current health crisis has had an impact on the value of office real estate. As far as rent payments are concerned, we must also take into account different parameters such as timing and duration. Now it's getting a little technical. The elements that can clarify this are the RFI and RFP phases, the information request and the tender request. These data will be clarified. But Proximus also wants to keep the estimate of the rent they will pay confidentially. In other words, the headquarters will remain in Brussels. The objective is to determine the exact new location by the end of 2021 or the first half of 2022. The move is scheduled for 2023. Proximus has already started to include its employees in this new vision and new way of working. Of course, this has already been announced. A change path has been started together with the staff. The main aim is to achieve participation and to create transparency. Since the approval of this plan by the Board of Directors, Proximus has started. There has recently been an information session attended virtually by over 3,500 people. It is also important to note that there is no link to the 2019 social plan, which is also closed. The representative trade unions have also been informed about the state of the project and will continue to be involved on a regular basis, as I believe it should be. Proximus has also recently negotiated a new mobility plan with the trade unions, which will provide greater flexibility with regard to transport modes and will have a positive impact on the environment. These plans are regularly reviewed to enable employees to use all transport facilities, but also to promote so-called soft mobility, such as walking and cycling. They're really working on that, and I think that's good news. Following the announcement of the campus project to Proximus staff, immediate contacts were made with the various political authorities concerned. Since that day, Proximus and the Brussels-Capital Region, as well as the municipalities of Schaerbeek and Saint-Josse-ten-Noode (on whose territory the Proximus Towers are located) have been working together to draw up a note to be drawn up by the master architect competent in this field. This note will set out the possible redevelopment framework for the current Proximus Tower site, i.e. volumes and allocations, taking into account the objectives of revitalizing the Brussels Region for this area. It's really in the plans. The master architect's note will also be integrated into the sales process via an RFP (request for proposal – I apologize for this terminology) so that the various buyers can learn about it equally and simultaneously. This will be part of the deal. I hope I have answered your questions with this. Otherwise, I will remain at your disposal. We will, of course, also follow this file carefully with Argus' eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for the enlightening answer. You have clearly clarified certain issues in terms of both facts and timing and prognosis. You also share some of our ideas and concerns about regionalisation and going to work differently, which pleases us. Only with regard to that new transport plan, which sounds like music to our ears, there was still some vagueness. There will be other transport modes and a third-payer system, but it is not entirely clear how that will be done with SNCB. The problem does not only apply to Proximus, in this it can be a pars pro toto. That's why I asked this question. In that respect, I remained somewhat hungry, but your answer was very enlightening and can certainly be followed in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u8	Madam Secretary, as usual, your answer was once again very complete. I remained somewhat hungry with regard to the valuation of the Proximus Towers and the scenario of renting the offices. I understand, of course, that we may not be able to provide information on this as long as the negotiations are under way. Apparently, there is what you called a high-level estimate in your distinctive style. I hope we'll get the information we asked for when the deals are done. Once again, I understand that you cannot give it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u9	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and clear answers. Thank you for clarifying the timing of the case and the direction of the operations to which we are heading. As you said, it is important to involve staff in thinking about site redevelopment. I welcome your clarifications in this regard. It is indeed a question of well-being in the face of this development. It is quite a development to review the design of the site and how to work, including with telework. Another positive focus is attention to the mobility plan of the future site. You mentioned the soft modes. The current site is obviously very well located in terms of accessibility to public transport. We hope that the future campus will also be. Finally, I also welcome the collaborations that have been announced and clarified, both with the Brussels Region and with the municipalities. This is obviously very important in the context of the redeployment of the North Quarter, for better exploitation for the benefit of its inhabitants. It is very well located. This is obviously an important operation in the context of the possible revitalization of this area. Thank you also for your clarification in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u10	Bpost's office network has been losing for 20 years. Due to the falling letter mail, the post offices get fewer people at their counters. Bpost has 660 offices today and almost as many postal points. Especially in Wallonia, these offices are often still one of the few businesses in the village centre. Over the last 20 years, Bpost has taken numerous initiatives to keep the offices attractive, but without much result. The problem is the lack of passage. There is a lack of activity in Wallonia. Some offices only get 30 to 50 customers a day. Bpost has therefore cut the opening hours quite a bit here and there. In some Walloon villages, post offices are only open two half days a week. It does not build an alternative commercial model. How does bpost intend to deal with its extensive office network in the coming years? If bpost wants to offer additional commercial services, will post offices be allowed to open enough hours? How will this be resolved in rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u11	Mrs Dewulf, thank you for your question and for your concern about the thinner populated areas. It is true that the number of visitors to the post offices has decreased dramatically. This is, of course, partly explained by the fall in the mail. However, the emergence of e-commerce and growing activity in the parcel sector have led to a global increase in the number of contacts in post offices since 2016. This does not, of course, prevent the network of post offices from controlling costs and also from trying to generate new revenue. I think it is logical that opening hours should be adapted to the presence of customers. However, it is not just about opening hours, but also about the possibility of offering services that otherwise will not be available or will no longer be available. That is the concern, I think. Post offices can therefore actually be seen as a kind of human face of a digitalising society for the benefit of public or private partners. In addition to ordinary services, minimum basic services could also be offered, obviously never with the aim of competing with other sectors. Let's get that straight. This is always happening from a socially responsible point of view. The assets that bpost has, such as the physical presence of the offices, highly qualified staff, the ability to identify and authenticate customers, experience in dealing with cash and the presence of a pool of devices can be used. Retail offices have the potential to be more than just a post office, as part of an approach where we don't want to leave anyone behind. As you know, because we have already discussed this a number of times, the concrete implementation of how we intend to further shape this in future is part of the negotiations that we are launching on the seventh management agreement with Bpost. Changes, such as new services, will always be discussed in dialogue with the social partners, as bpost always does and as we consider important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u13	Mr President, Mr Freilich, your question may well have been inspired by a communication issued a few weeks ago, which is important. I therefore think it is a good thing that we can make things right here. I would like to assure you, as well as the self-employed organisations and local shops, that there is no need to worry. Following a press conference a few weeks ago on the long-term plans and the implementation of the network of post offices of bpost in the future, there has been a misconception that these offices would be used as neighbourhood shops. That misconception was corrected on that day, including in the media by an interview with the CEO of bpost, Mr Van Avermaet, in De Tijd. The Media House Newspapers published an online correction, also on that day. What is it about? Vigorous or less used post offices can be used for other tasks, although socially important functions. After all, the network of post offices is very valuable in itself and we can use it to do so. The added value and strength of the post offices and the staff working there lies in the competence of the employees, the trust of the customers, the tradition of the post office in its surroundings and the proximity with the citizens living there. I believe that this binding role is important and essential and can be strengthened in the context of a social approach by offering new services to public or private partners that contribute to ensuring that no citizen is forgotten in an increasingly digital society. So it is about the possible use of post offices that may have a different service role than today. By the way, the post offices already offer other services besides pure postal services, for example financial transactions. In other words, post offices can be more than just a post office. They can form a real physical, human link between the citizen and new, for example digital, public services. Bpost has to work, from its own perspective, to ensure a sustainable future for the network, not only on costs, but also on new revenues. As a competent minister, I welcome the thinking exercise of bpost, because the network of 660 post offices can continue to be used usefully and socially responsible, especially when we think in the digital story of those who cannot participate. Bpost can play a part in that. How to implement this concretely will be the subject of negotiations under the Seventh Management Agreement. We will then, of course, discuss this agreement in this committee. If we propose new services for the post offices and their employees, they will also be discussed with the social partners. In several respects, it is too early to give more details about the number of post offices involved and the impact on staff. It is not possible to say more about the precise social content that we could ask bpost about. However, I am, and will continue to be, in favour of a social dimension that offers added value; a purely commercial approach that competes with the local middle class is absolutely not something I am in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. We seem to be on the same page, namely that a public undertaking does not have to compete with the local middle class. We know, of course, that any company that wishes to survive in a competitive world must constantly reinvent itself. If at some point it turns out that a particular branch doesn't generate enough revenue, then one has to think out of the box to do something about it. If we have a large network that could also be used for other commercial activities, that is always a possibility. That is not true, however, when it comes to a public undertaking; only a private company can do so. For us, the government does not have to have 50% of the shares of bpost, we ask for that participation to be reduced, as with the other public companies. In this way, the company can be given every opportunity to grow. If there are problems with the CEO or with anything else, it will always end up in Parliament and on your plate. That shouldn't really be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u15	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns a pilot project of bpost in which the postman can locate the car in the car park via an app and open the case. How does this pilot project proceed? Will this project continue in the future? Has bpost already found new companies that want to work with this new system? Has bpost already thought of an app that allows parcel delivery guys to open the front door and leave the package in the lobby? I know it's a long shot, but I can only ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, no, this is not far-fetched, these are all things that people are thinking about. That 2019 project with the company Cronos from Kontich, where packages were placed directly in the trunk while the customer was working, ended a year ago. That worked like this. In the car there was an internal system that could be activated by the mailman to open the trunk and put the package in. The employee then received a message confirming delivery. This pilot project was analysed and it was decided that it was technically entirely good, without problems, but that the market was not ready. This project is not ready to roll out. It has been stopped and will not continue for the time being. That's the conclusion. You also asked about other systems where the front door of a private home could be opened. It has been considered that there are too many safety problems in this area. It is true that bpost already offers customers the opportunity to let them know that the package can be delivered somewhere else in absence, for example to the neighbors or in a garage or a loft, so a safe place, near the house. It's used all the time. For the time being, I am not aware of any other projects that would build on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u17	Madam Minister, I think it is too early, but perhaps it will be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I have looked at the bpost website and find nowhere exactly what the procedure is for the door-to-door buses of mourning letters. Even the undertakers don't know anything about it. There will have to be a better solution. How will bpost solve that? Someone who has never had to send a large number of letters of mourning does not know that this must be done online or that they still have to wait for a customer code. If the potential customer then calls the customer service, he will be put on hold. How can bpost make this more customer-friendly? Moreover, people who do not work with computers, such as the elderly, are unlucky. How will this be resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, thank you for this question on a specific and often very delicate situation. I have informed me of your question at bpost. The new procedure for door-to-door delivery of letters of mourning was necessary as a result of changes in the company's distribution organisation. However, efforts have been made to ensure that this is done as smoothly as possible. I understand from your question that there is room for improvement, but Bpost informed me that the beginning of this year was a major communication campaign. There was an e-mail campaign for all customers whose bpost has the address, a second campaign by letter for the customers whose bpost has the address and leaflets in the retail offices. You ask if the undertakers are sufficiently informed. Bpost has informed me that all undertakers who have used Distripost in the past received a letter with an extensive leaflet at the end of February 2020. Of course, I can get you that leaflet. It can always be that someone who didn't get it, but in principle that communication did happen. You talk about people who have to send mourning letters for the first time and do not know how to do so. Bpost informs me that there is information on the website bpost.be/nl/wedding post. For older people who are faced with deaths and who are not always digitally trained, bpost tells me that the customer service is doing everything it can to assist those people in the reservation process, if they so wish. I suppose everything can be better, but basically they try to do so through customer service. If the customer is not able to book online, the customer service will do so instead. At least that should be the system. After that reservation by the customer service, the customer can issue the mourning letters the following day and pay in the retail office. Like you, I am concerned about people who are going through a difficult period when they are faced with a death in their environment and who at that time may not be awake from the way in which they operate. I will ask Bpost again to communicate this even more clearly to the undertakers and to the people who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You can do better than that. After all, for years there has been misery in sending letters of mourning. They used to be sent along with the registered shipments. That system has been abolished. I don't know why it was abolished, but actually that system was better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u21	Madam Minister, there would be a pilot project in certain post offices where people work half-half-hours on Fridays. That comes down to the same thing as a DAD day. The mailman would only deliver newspapers, packages, magazines and mourning letters on Fridays. Are you aware of this? If so, are the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned also aware? For what reason is Bpost doing this pilot project? Will bpost roll out the project in other post offices? Can there be more postmen at home on Friday? Is there a balance in working volume between a postman who only delivers packages and a postman who does the regular mail delivery?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u22	Ms Dewulf, since mid-March 2020 a new distribution model has been introduced in the post offices of bpost. This has been widely announced, for example at the hearing of the former CEO in January in committee. According to bpost, this was necessary, given the new needs of the customers, which lead to smaller mail volumes and larger package volumes due to the current evolution towards fewer letters and more packages. This had to lead to a different distribution on the ground and that model is sometimes called half-half-half-life within bpost. This means that deliveries that take place from Monday to Thursday are distributed in such a way that one half of the round contains a large volume of correspondence, while the other half includes just less volume. On Friday there will be less volume of correspondence, as no unaddressed and addressed advertising post will be sent. That's how the system works. Perhaps that answers some of your questions. However, it is important to note that all services, irrespective of their content, are prepared with an average workload of 38 hours per week. In peak periods, such as the end-of-year period or the current corona crisis, additional personnel are deployed to cope with temporary volume peaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u23	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the acquisition of Mobile Vikings and JIM Mobile, cooperation on advertising with Telenet/SBS, Mediahuis and Pebble, cooperation with 6th NeTWorK for the drone market, cooperation with Banx, the Internet bank in joint venture with Belfius, cooperation with Delta Fiber and Eurofiber on fiber plans: all these things show that Proximus is now rather active on the market. In itself, this is not surprising, since the CEO, Mr Boutin, had already announced this when he was appointed. Proximus greatly expands its scope as a company. In addition to telecoms, Proximus will soon also run a bank, direct the advertising market and let drones fly. Of course, all of this falls within the scope of free operation and I do not want to interfere with that strategy. However, I do have some questions about the implications for the company and its employees and, of course, for the customers. In 2015, the European Commission decided that Telenet had to divest Mobile Vikings and JIM Mobile, taking over BASE, so that a new operator could be created to keep up the competition. With the current acquisition by Proximus, that condition seems no longer to be met. Madam Secretary, why is Proximus taking the chance? What implications do Proximus expect on its own from these acquisitions and collaborations? How many additional staff members would like to attract Proximus in the short term and in the longer term? How do you estimate the European Commission's attitude to the acquisition of Mobile Vikings by Proximus? Mobile Vikings was known as a prize fighter with its own specific dynamics and communication. Will it continue to play that role within Proximus? What input will Proximus play in the cooperation on advertising? What kind of data would Proximus exchange with these companies? Telenet's complaint concerning the joint venture between Proximus and Orange is still pending before the Competition Authority. When would an answer fall out of the bus?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, the questions you are asking have already reached us from different angles. The questions are correct and I hope I can give you the answers you want. With regard to internal affairs at Proximus, including its operation and recruitment, I get the answer that this information is commercially sensitive in nature and is actually covered by business secrecy, which means that I cannot disclose information. An important element in your question concerns the possible approval by the European Commission of the acquisition of Mobile Vikings. It is important to know that this approval should not be given by the European Commission, but by the Belgian Competition Authority. The application is still pending, the approval has not yet been given. We'll have to wait for that. I received this question from Mr Freilich a few weeks ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Proximus has assured us they want to respect Mobile Vikings' DNA. It is a company that is aimed at a young audience, with competitive prices. They see just there the interesting part of the acquisition, because of the complementarity between the target groups of Mobile Vikings and Proximus and the positioning of both companies. Actually, there one can draw the parallel with the acquisition of Scarlet in 2008 by Belgacom. Even then, there was a fear that Scarlet would be swallowed up and disappeared from the market. That didn't happen. Even today, Scarlet is still on the market, with a competitively priced offer. On the contribution of Proximus to the cooperation on advertising, I get the answer again that this is business sensitive information. So I can't give you any information about that. To your question about Telenet's complaint, which is at the level of the Competition Authority, my answer is that I am not a party. I am not involved in that investigation and cannot therefore actually give my opinion on ongoing investigations by the Competition Authority. I hope, together with you, that this study, which was actually launched in 2019, will be completed quickly. Finally, we also expect a quick ruling on Mobile Vikings from the same Competition Authority. That is a lot of things that we need to follow up on, but I understand your questions very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u26	Madam Minister, a number of things are now clearer. The DNA will be respected when it comes to the takeover of JIM Mobile and Mobile Vikings. You, like me, are waiting for the results of the investigation and I understand that you cannot take sides in that. I understand the sensitive nature of a number of matters and that they are covered by business secrecy, but I have the feeling that our public companies are quite capable of doing so. I can see that with SNCB too. When it comes to ticket prices, people say that these are internal affairs and business-sensitive. Perhaps we should have the courage to look at this with the committee. When it comes to these matters, this often means a significant change of strategy from, in this case, Proximus. Presumably this also has an impact on the staff. As MEPs, we can expect openness, especially if this has an impact on staff, especially after the major reorganisation of Proximus last year, with a lot of sensitivity and uncertainty among staff. It is rather a question for the committee chairman, but perhaps it might be useful to invite the Proximus CEO to the committee again for an exchange of views on his future plans with Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u27	Thank you, Mrs Buyst, for your suggestion. I can tell you that in the next few days we will determine the order of business for the committee. You can then ask the question and make your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u28	Mr President, Minister, although bpost has 34,000 employees, the group still needs outside advice. We had asked a written question about the consultants. We noticed those numbers, didn't we? Over the last five years, EUR 114.5 million has been spent on studies carried out by external consultants. That amounts to almost EUR 23 million a year. It is 12.8 million in 2015, 15.5 million in 2016, 19.4 million in 2017, 2.7 million in 2018 and 45.1 million in 2019. This is an increase of 350 % at 5 years time. That's not a bad thing. Especially in 2019, bpost spent a lot of money on consultancy agencies. How can bpost justify the large increase in expenditure on consultancy costs? Isn't there enough talent and knowledge within the organisation of bpost, making more and more use of consultations? How do you explain that big increase to 45 million euros in 2019? For example, did this have to do with the search for the new CEO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your question, which is indeed a follow-up to the written question and which I am very well placed. It also makes sense for you to ask further questions. Bpost is, of course, an autonomous public undertaking. They must publish the consultancy fees annually in their annual report. You have rightly indicated that the costs for consultancy increased in 2019. So I asked bpost why that was necessary. Bpost has informed me that it is about the fact that there are a lot of new developments, new projects in new areas, and that this required temporary reinforcement. For example, modernisations were needed as a result of the decrease in postal volumes, but also because of the international development that bpost underwent. It wasn't a result of the search for a new CEO. That question was literally asked to them. It is important that the Bpost Management Committee has informed me that it has, of course, noticed this evolution itself. I replied in writing. They have made efforts to reduce consultancy costs for 2020. That's really an intention they've expressed. At the beginning of November we saw the figures for the first three quarters. We then found that there was an expenditure of EUR 16.2 million in consultancy. This is a 41% decrease compared to the first three quarters of 2019. Of course, we still have to wait and see what the fourth quarter brings, but if the trend continues, it will be a serious reduction. This means, in reply to your question, that I find that it is moving in the right direction and that bpost's intention to reduce consultancy costs is being fulfilled, which is probably a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u30	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that these costs are reduced. The ordinary workers, who have put up an incredibly large amount of work for a very low wage in the past period, would not otherwise like to hear that. Following on from Mrs Buyst's question earlier, I would also like us to be able to obtain more transparency for which consultation is requested and for which it is not. It would be a good thing if we had a better view of this here in our committee. I am therefore also calling for greater openness in the committee on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u31	Mr. President, Madam Minister, you are aware that from January 7 to 8, emergency numbers 100, 101, 112 and 1733 were temporarily inaccessible. According to the Proximus operator, the reasons for this breakdown appear to come from a "fixed connectivity problem in certain areas in Belgium". Fortunately, the provinces were reactive and quickly set up alternative numbers to deal with this failure with potentially heavy consequences. Madam Minister, I was able to ask your colleague Verlinden about this, but it seemed to me important to ask you also to complete the information from the point of view of your competence. Can you give me more information on the origin of the breakdown? Are you in contact with Proximus to prevent this situation from happening again? What structural solutions are available to us? Dealing with a single operator is a risk to emergency services. Is it possible to revisit this for the future? Finally, have similar incidents occurred in the past? If so, how often?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, indeed, on the night of January 7th to 8th, an intervention was planned on part of the "voice" network. This intervention was necessary to allow a number of software adaptations to be made at a later stage and was fully tested in a laboratory environment, but in the course of the intervention itself, an error occurred which spread to the redundancy infrastructure. My office was informed of this incident at around 2 a.m. that night – I remember it very well. A first report was sent to us the next morning. The incident has been thoroughly analysed and Proximus is now aware of the exact actions that led to this incident and how to prevent it from happening again. All possible solutions are currently being considered to avoid future similar incidents. All this is done in full transparency and in collaboration with the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT), the Crisis Centre, ASTRID and, of course, Minister Verlinden. Discussions are under way to identify solutions. We had a meeting on this with Home Affairs on 21 January. In addition, a working group led by the IBPT will be established. The incident management and incident communication process will also be reviewed for possible improvements. As soon as we have obtained more clarity on the solutions that all the above-mentioned partners can support, I will communicate these solutions to you in full transparency, but I do not yet have the opportunity to do so today. With regard to your question about comparable incidents, I would like to inform you that the last major breakdown occurred on 5 April 2019. At that time, an incident of a completely different type occurred on the interconnection platform. Following this incident, a consultation was initiated to provide for additional redundancy for emergency services. A high-level solution has been developed in collaboration with relevant government operators and services, including Home Affairs. This solution offers additional redundancy through another operator. The health crisis led to the postponement of the project, but not its abandonment. I think that some leads will be put on the table as part of the ongoing work in order to find the solution and to propose sufficient redundancy in the event of incidents such as that of 8 January last.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u33	Minister, thank you for these answers and clarifications. I understand that you will be able to provide me with further information once the working group has been set up and the analysis of the incidents has been carried out. I am obviously asking because we need to find solutions together so that these kinds of incidents cannot happen again. Indeed, these are emergency numbers, which must be efficient at all times. I therefore count on you to work on this and to provide us with this information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u34	Madam Minister, at the end of December, more specifically on 23 December, the press reported that BNP Paribas Fortis had offered to buy bpost banks, which raised some fears among both the company's workers and many citizens. We know the bpost management contract and its network of post offices throughout the country. To be able to guarantee universal service in terms of financial services throughout the country and also to all the people of our country is an important issue. After the surprise effect, we are now in a phase of reflection or an exploratory phase in relation to this offer. So these questions come at a point to take stock with you of the discussions that are probably under way. You're gonna tell us. As Minister of Public Enterprises, how did you react to this offer? How do you see this file and these ongoing discussions about a possible sale of bpost bank? On the other hand, three unions responded by stating that three elements need to be taken into account by all in these discussions. The first is the question of the maintenance of employment, of the staff working today in the post offices. The second is financial services to our citizens, especially in rural areas. Private banks are known to desert rural areas and sparsely populated areas. It really remains only bpost bank to provide financial services to perhaps fewer people but for whom it is extremely important to retain this type of services. The third is the societal obligations of bpost in the current management contract that relate to vulnerable populations. We also know that private banks have their own policies. You have recently been asked about the digital divide and other elements. Here, too, the post was an alternative, perhaps the only one, for these audiences. What can you tell us about the ongoing discussions, in particular, on these three points that I have just mentioned? I would add that it is very important, in terms of social consultation, that you discuss with the organisations representing the 30 000 bpost workers who are extremely concerned, in order to inform them and to dialogue with them. Where are the discussions with the union bench so that, if there is a decision, it will be discussed beforehand with him?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u35	Madam Minister, BNP Paribas Fortis is indeed expected to take over all shares of bpost in bpost bank by the end of this year. The intention would be to cooperate closely on banking activities in post offices for the next seven years. For the customers, according to both players, nothing would change. We were able to hear this from the press. My questions are somewhat in line with the questions put by Mr Delizée, Madam Minister. What does this operation mean for the employees of bpost who were involved in the service of bpost bank and what will happen to the employees of bpost bank itself? The ending management agreement contained some provisions on banking services, for example the provision of ATM machines in municipalities without banks. What are the implications of the negotiations for a new management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u36	Madam Minister, we are shocked by this decision and how quickly it has been taken. We believe that it is important to have a social debate on this issue and that there should have been a debate in Parliament on this. It concerns 50% of bpost's shares in bpost bank. We think it is very important to have more debate on this. As the previous speaker said, the bank also has a social interest. We have discussed so many times in committee the fact that there are no banks in many municipalities. The private banks move away from the smaller municipalities and bpost bank was the only solution for many people. For us, it is very important that everyone has a bank close by that is very accessible. That is essential for us. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Were you informed or consulted before BNP Paribas and bpost bank shared this information with the press? If so, when exactly? How much will the sale of shares to BNP Paribas yield exactly for bpost? What role have you or your cabinet played in this transaction? Given the statements in your policy statement on the basic banking offer and its importance, do you agree to the privatisation of bpost bank? Bpost bank plays an important role in our classical banking society. Without public participation, we no longer have any leverage to shape that role. How will you compensate for that? Can you guarantee employment at bpost bank and what consequences will the acquisition have for bpost bank customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, on December 23, we were learning about the proposed sale of bpost bank to BNP Parisbas Fortis. This sale would end a page in the history of bpost at the banking level, which translates into figures today: 720 000 accounts in sight, 876,000 savings accounts, 600,000 active customers, a net profit bpost bank of 21 million euros last year. These figures are important. According to the information published in the press, nothing should change for bpost bank customers for the next seven years. But we would like to know if this information is confirmed. Moreover, de facto, bpost officials will offer banking services from a private bank in the 661 post offices of the kingdom. I will not go back to the arguments that have been put forward to justify this sale, even if I wonder about it. However, because of its public ownership, bpost bank has been able to differentiate itself from the big banks in recent years. In October, again, the CEO of bpost bank announced, against the general trend of the big banks, the investment in a strategy of proximity vis-à-vis its savers, notably through the investment in new automata, namely the famous self banking. That strategy had been legitimately questioned in that commission. Minister, what are the reasons bpost bank has given for this sale? What about the process of social consultation with bpost bank and bpost staff? What are the guarantees in terms of maintaining employment for the 270 bpost bank staff? Will bpost employees who are required to sell BNP Paribas Fortis' banking products be subject to new profitability targets or other provisions that depend exclusively on BNP Paribas Fortis? Beyond the deal itself, is there any question of a financial contribution from BNP Paribas, given the advantages of the services at the counter? Is bpost bank's proximity strategy in question? What about controlling the evolution of the pricing offer for bpost bank customers who are singular in the banking market? What guarantees can we still have after this seven-year transitional period? What about bpost bank and its future after this deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u38	Thank you for your questions. First of all, I will answer your first question, which is a personal question. When I heard the news, I asked the same questions as all of you here today. The answers I will give are those I have received myself. I hope we can discuss it. The long-term partnership between bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis has long existed. It is a decision that has been taken by bpost as an autonomous public undertaking. So it was not my firm that interfered at all, but the bpost board of directors that decided in this case. I was informed at the end of last year, shortly before you read it in the press. The statement by bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis concerning the intention to change the ownership of bpost bank is part of the discussions within the framework of the usual social consultation at bpost and bpost bank. It is therefore an intention to negotiate between Bpost and BNP, which requires publication at the FSMA. It is important to mention that changes can be made at this negotiating stage. Nevertheless, I can tell you that bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis have the objective of strengthening a sustainable business relationship based on a common outreach strategy, aimed at offering financial services via a network of agencies close to the citizen. That's what they're announcing. The offices of bpost are of course such a network. Mr. Parent, you asked why this decision was made. The reason is to be found in the current context of the banking sector: low margins, low interest rates, strict capital requirements. That said, the staff and the citizens have always been a great concern in the negotiations, which I can testify to. With respect to your question about bpost staff, it is important to distinguish between two categories of employees. First of all, the employees of bpost bank, a joint subsidiary between bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis, remain under a bpost bank contract that continues to exist with 100% ownership of BNP Paribas Fortis. Next, bpost employees continue to be employed by bpost since it is well bpost that will continue to serve bpost bank customers via the post office network. This sale does not imply any structural changes in the network. The purpose of the negotiations is to ensure the future of bpost workers within the post office network by maintaining the distribution of banking services. By discussing a structural solution for bpost bank within BNP Paribas Fortis, bpost wants to ensure the sustainability of these banking services, thus strengthening the future of post office staff. This is why, beyond the sale of bpost banks, the discussions also include the conclusion of a commercial distribution agreement between bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis. Despite the change in bpost bank ownership, BNP Paribas Fortis and bpost will continue to work together through a business partnership and bpost will continue to offer banking services in its post offices – in accordance with the sixth management contract – and to be paid by BNP Paribas Fortis, in the continuity of what is already happening. The fact that bpost bank is already 100% owned by BNP Paribas Fortis should not change in this way. This also means that this marketing agreement should also be subject as now to remuneration from bpost bank to bpost. It is important to know that bpost bank is an independent company with its own decision-making bodies, its Management Committee, its Board of Directors and is currently determining its own tariff offer. It is true that the sixth management contract contains concrete provisions on banking operations. I'm gonna keep on thinking it's important. This management contract ensures, inter alia, the concrete implementation of services of general economic interest of a financial nature. These are not to be confused with the basic banking services to which all banks, including private banks, are subject. For example, the management contract commits bpost to place a minimum of 350 banknote distributors, called ATMs, in the post offices and to guarantee an ATM in each municipality where this is not offered by another financial institution. We've had that discussion here before. The proposed acquisition will have no impact on these tasks. Bpost will continue to distribute banking and insurance products through the 650 post offices until 31 December 2028. On top of that, it is important to know that the ATM park is managed autonomously by bpost. I would like to tell you that I am aware that banks are increasingly reducing their office network, especially in rural areas. This must be taken into account in the negotiations of the new management contract. I would also like to point out that it is my intention to involve citizens and this committee in drawing up the seventh management contract in order to be able to respond so well to the needs of our people and society. As regards the question about the proceeds of this sale, I can tell you that the purchase price for the share interest of 50% will be calculated on the basis of the IFRS net asset value at the time of the transaction. That stands for International Financial Reporting Standards. That's a classic way of dealing with these kinds of takeovers. It is expected to amount to between EUR 100 and 120 million. As this element is part of the ongoing discussions and the final valuation, I will not be able to give you any further details, as you can understand. Finally, I would like to inform you of the current state of negotiations between bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis. At the end of December 2020, bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis concluded a non-binding agreement on the future long-term partnership for bpost bank. bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis intend to sign binding agreements by the end of March 2021, with the ambition to finalize the transaction by the end of this year. The current agreement will expire at the end of 2021. The duration of the future partnership will be seven years, and can be extended if desired. It is very difficult for me to inform you about the future. If you ask me what's going to happen after these seven years, it's hard to say. This is a sector that is subject to frequent changes and changes. But I can assure you that my personal interest will always be to defend the rights of the citizen. Mr President, I have also announced that I will be sitting at the negotiating table with the trade union organisations concerned. I understand their concerns very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I can hear them, but I am still relatively worried; I think we will have an opportunity to return to them. You also specified the deadlines. I think that what is very important is the various guarantees that we have all mentioned, in terms of employment and status. You have also partially responded to universal service in rural areas, compared to more vulnerable populations who must have access to financial services everywhere and all the time. We really need to see what will come out of these discussions. We can hear the deadline of March 31. I think we all wrote it down. I imagine that our committee would like to hear you again before this deadline and return to this issue, because it is a very important societal issue. I hope that we can plan a new committee before the end of March. We will see what the committee will decide, but I think it is a matter that needs to be closely monitored. I have a little question. I didn't understand the abbreviation IMRF. What's that in French?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u40	IFRS:International Financial Reporting Standards. It's a reporting standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u41	Nu is het duidelijker. I also do not know this instance in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u42	Madam Minister, once again an answer that shows commitment as a minister. I hear you say that you were informed at the end of December and that you also asked the questions we are asking. I've made a number of notes. You say that ATMs will be kept in municipalities without bank offices and that there would normally not be much change for staff. You ensure the further close cooperation between bpost bank and bpost, also in the future. As a result, bpost bank customers will still be able to contact their post office for this service. Your answers reassure me, as do your involvement. I agree with the President that we should continue to follow this up, but knowing you, I am sure you will be happy to explain this here when you have more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u43	Madam Minister, if you were as surprised as we are, that means that it is important to have another debate on this. I repeat here that I do not think it is normal that such an important decision, which will have such an impact on our society, has not been the subject of a debate in this House. I am asking for that debate to be taken up again. We will certainly not let that go. After all, this is very important. Bpost bank was very accessible, also for people who do not easily go to other banks. Everything is now almost over the Internet, while people who are not on the Internet, like my mother-in-law, could easily contact bpost and bpost bank to get the necessary explanation. It is very important for us that this remains accessible. Fortis bought up bpost because it hopes to make more profit. Bpost bank was profitable, so why did it have to be sold? It could have contributed to the whole of bpost and then we wouldn't have to look for other ways to make the company run properly. Nor should we underestimate the concern of ordinary workers at bpost that this could happen so easily. For us, this is an eye-opener. We are very surprised at that. I would like to mention one more element, namely the ethical aspect. Fortis is in second last place on the ethical front. I am thinking about the fact that as a customer of bpost bank, I now move on to a bank that is ethically ranked second last. For me, this debate has not been concluded and I hope that we can continue to debate the bank of bpost, which must serve the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u44	I heard you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you have pointed out at the planning level, the timetable for agreements is binding and makes things almost imminent. This questions us in relation to the whole timing. As you pointed out, the draft decision emanates from the decision-making bodies of bpost. I think it will be appropriate to ask management about the overall bpost strategy, its overall framework and its planned deployment. Other interventions highlight how relevant these questions about the strategy are, and in particular in this case. Precisely, I do not hide from you that the announcement of the loss of bpost bank leaves me puzzled. Not as a result of your answer, of course, but today we know what we're losing, we don't know what we're winning or with certainty what we're not losing. At this stage of the schedule and the file, we do not have sufficient information to judge the relevance of the draft agreement beyond the estimated value. Beyond the details of the bpost bank staff, which are already interesting and of which I thank you, the questions on the social impact of the agreement on staff and on community services will have to be rested. You note, Madam Minister, that staff and citizens are at the centre of concern. Thank you for saying that again. It's always good to hear it. I expect a bpost bank of transparency on these aspects, and respect for social consultation. Thank you for your announcement regarding the dialogue you are going to conduct with the unions. It is very important that they can hear that they have a minister at their side in this societal debate. With regard to community services, I reiterate my concerns. Detricating the current strategy, through the current abolition of self-banking or certain services depending on the regions, would have a negative impact on the digital divide but also on the quality of services to citizens in rural areas. As such, the duration of the future seven-year partnership is as many years as we can gain to build alternatives. Of course, the initial agreement must be a good one, not just for bpost or BNP, but for the citizens as a whole. That is why we will have to work and be vigilant in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u46	I will conclude that the incident is closed before this afternoon, but certainly not yet. We will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u47	Madam Secretary, this year's Bpost Management Agreement expires. A new agreement between the government and the postal company is insisting. As a Member of this House, I know that these management agreements are important because they do specify a number of things. Again, it is time to anchor new greeds, needs and evolutions. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not want to go back to the old state-owned companies where the Minister prescribes what should happen when. It is important, however, that the expectations of society in relation to its public service are protected and monitored, including for what we can and can expect from a company as a bpost. In my view, that is our role, and a broad debate on a management agreement is important for that. You've recently had it recorded in a newspaper that "you're only faster, but you're moving on together." When do you want to be able to conclude this new management agreement? In what way do you intend to involve the population in order to achieve these new ambitions for bpost? Will you also give Parliament room for debate under this management agreement? Do you think it is an interesting idea to build the agreement on the basis of sustainable development objectives or SDGs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u48	The sixth management agreement actually expired on 31 December 2020, but automatically extended by one year until 31 December 2021. We will do everything we can to ensure that the new seventh management contract can enter into force from 1 January 2022. It is actually quite ambitious to achieve this in one year, especially to adapt the legal framework. However, we think it is important to be able to translate the new needs and demands of all parties involved, such as Bpost, the State and citizens, into a new agreement as soon as possible. The population will be involved in different ways. Firstly, a public consultation is planned to demonstrate that the public service contracts which would be taxed by bpost and for which bpost would be reimbursed effectively meet a need and demand from the population and society. That could be a study, at least an analysis of the needs, and whether these match the assignment we want to give bpost. Secondly, we wish to engage actively in dialogue with the citizens and with the various stakeholders and stakeholders. This will be done through open forums including social media. We still have to look at how we are going to implement this in concrete terms, but that is the intention. Parliament also has an important role to play. I've done that a number of times. Article 5 of the 1991 Act also provides that the Minister shall report to the Court on the conclusion of new management contracts. I want to go beyond just reporting. I would like to take up the concerns already expressed by you and your colleagues, including when we discussed the policy paper. One of the broad suggestions from this committee was also the social role of the postman and post offices. I am absolutely taking this as a focus in the negotiations on the seventh management contract. As far as your question about the UN's SDGs (sustainable development goals) is concerned, this can certainly be done. It's a good idea. In my policy paper, I mentioned that bpost has an exemplary role as a public body in terms of economic, social and environmental sustainability. Bpost is already familiar with these sustainability objectives and has chosen to focus specifically on five of the SDGs, in particular decent work and economic growth (SDG 8), innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9), sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11), responsible consumption and production (SDG 12) and climate action (SDG 13). I think that's a very good guide. I hope that I have answered your questions and I sincerely look forward to the discussion with you and the other committee members in the coming months on the conclusion of this seventh management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u49	Thank you for your answers. It is to your credit that you wish to open up the mandatory consultation process under the new management agreement, Madam Secretary. You want to organize open forums, carry out an analysis. This indicates that you see participation as more than just organising a survey. I'm very excited about that. I also very much appreciate the openness you have shown to Parliament. You say that it is legally anchored that you report to Parliament, but you want to do more. You want to argue with us. I think I can speak on behalf of all my colleagues when I say that you testified to this when you presented your policy paper and when you came forward with your policy paper 2.0. It is quite clear that it is not a mandatory number for you to come to the Chamber, but that you really want to listen. That is why I am very looking forward to our further cooperation on the Seventh Bpost Management Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you know that an IPA must be closed every two years. The wage margin has been determined by the Central Council for Business and is only 0.4%. This means that the workers and servants in this country can expect a maximum wage increase of 0.4%, a crumb, if this margin is applied. Although IPA has no direct effect on the employees of Bpost, it is indirectly so. At the same time, IPA is also the measure of the future wage negotiations of the employees of bpost. A raise of 0.4% for a postman would mean about €7 per month. That is very little, while these people have been working very hard over the last few months. Bpost is a public company and internationally active in a growing sector. Think of the packages and the e-commerce. Bpost is a profitable company, thanks to the efforts of the staff. Moreover, bpost has an exemplary role in our society. Madam Secretary, how much has blighted gross wages at bpost increased over the last ten years? Have you talked to the management of bpost or the social partners about the margin to increase the wages of the bpost workers? What's their position? The German postmen received a 5 % storage in 2020. Are you going to send a signal to the top of bpost to insist on a similar wage increase for the employees of bpost? You are in a position to intervene, just as you did during the packing wave at the end of 2020. We believe that you can also play a role here for the employees, because a lot of people at bpost have a very low wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your justified request for clarification. Maybe I should say first that the wage standard, established by an IPA or by the government in the absence of an IPA, has been legally applicable for several years to bpost and Proximus. Even before that, that wage discussion was an integral part of the overall approach to wage policy. You will remember that the scale introduced from 1 January 2010 for operational personnel such as drivers, sorters and distributors has been revalidated under collective agreement 2018-2019. When bpost became an autonomous public sector almost 10 years ago, it inherited the pay scales of the Directorate of Postal Services. These pay scales were then structurally higher than wage scales in comparable sectors in the labour market. Bpost informs me that the wage rates were no longer increased for that reason. Such an increase would, according to what Bpost's management has told me, have put the sustainability of employment at risk. As regards your question about the position of management and the social partners, you know, of course, that bpost's wage policy is always conducted in consultation with trade union partners. As a result of this social dialogue, measures are being introduced to increase staff purchasing power and one-off bonuses have been awarded in the past for several years. Issues relating to the wage policy of an autonomous public body shall be negotiated in a joint committee, as laid down by law. You will understand that I will not interfere with the decision of such administrative bodies. For each discussion there is a suitable platform. Parallel discussions do not seem to me to be effective, especially in the context of the IPA negotiations. Of course I meet the unions at bpost and listen to their desires. I also have contacts with bpost management. For Deutsche Post, according to what bpost tells me, the comparison must be placed in the right context. Germany has no automatic wage indexing. So you can understand that any increases up to 5 % can be made. With us, of course, there is an automatic wage indexing, which compensates for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u52	Madam Secretary, I was expecting your answer. I know that you are also concerned about good working conditions and a good remuneration for the workers. However, there is now a very uneven growth at bpost. Firstly, the older workers are blocked, as you are aware. The newer workers, such as the auxiliary workers, have a very low wage. Personally, I would also refer to the trade unions' campaign for a minimum wage that these people should be able to earn at least EUR 14 per hour in a public sector. This is not the case now, which, of course, has a huge impact on staff turnover. I recently had someone on the phone who told me that he had stopped, because the working conditions were very difficult and the wages were very low. We also received the figures. The fact that there is such a great deal of progress has to do with the fact that for a large part of the workers wages at bpost are far too low. So we really hope that you, in consultation with the unions, I understand that this must be done in consultation with the unions and with the employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u53	Minister, my question concerns relations between the Lambda citizens and what I would call the giant Proximus. The citizen really feels lost. I get more and more reactions from citizens who fail to reach Proximus properly. They are deprived by the complexity, depersonalisation and dehumanisation of the contact possibilities put in place by the company. Contacting an operator by phone is not easy at all. It takes about ten minutes sometimes not to arrive at a solution yet. This is really, for the Lambda citizen, a monumental problem he encounters with this enterprise. You are the appropriate minister and the company also has a public service mission. In this dual sense, I really believe that you have an opportunity to act so that this company organizes its contacts with the citizens differently. I know it's not easy. I am the mayor of a small town. I already have to fight, even in a small town, so that, by grace, we can keep human beings in contact with each other. This simplifies life and makes it more enjoyable for everyone. Minister, I imagine that others have received numerous complaints from citizens about this issue with Proximus. Have you had any contact with the company regarding these remarks? When was the last Proximus customer satisfaction survey on the customer's communication with the company? How many complaints were sent to Proximus regarding this issue in 2019 and 2020? How many since the beginning of the first confinement? How many of them related to the difficulty of getting in touch with the company? How many were related to a telework connection problem? We spoke during the presentation of your general policy note on the problem of white areas in rural areas. I can assure you that since the obligation to telework, the life of the mayors in low-density municipalities was not simple, since, in contact with the citizens, we had to answer such questions every day. I always say that I am not the boss of Proximus or the minister responsible for this business, but I am going to speak to the minister who has a real weight and can make a difference. I would like to have an answer from you, Madam Minister. Above all, I would like a commitment from you to change things and to find more human contacts between customers and the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u54	Mr President, Mr Arens, thank you for drawing my attention to this point. I have of course taken note of your question about the possibility of contact with Proximus. However, I would like to point out that, in order to provide figures, it is easier to answer a written question. However, I interviewed Proximus, who assures me that his client satisfaction is at the centre of his concerns. However, in her view, a system of one-off measures would no longer respond to the dynamics of the current market. Its system of satisfaction measurement is therefore in the form of continuous measurements during customer interactions with services. An online tool allows its management to know, at every moment, the evolution of the satisfaction indicators, but also to read written testimonies in which the feeling is described during customer contacts. Proximus informs me that the trend of complaints internally, but also at the level of the mediation service decreases from year to year, including in 2020, year with a specific context. I would like to extend a little over the covid period and the double pressure that the health crisis has caused on Proximus' operational teams with an increased absenteeism resulting mainly from the quarantine obligation and with a high level of expectation from the growing clientele. This development is linked to telework and containment. Proximus estimates that 70% of the complementary calls it has faced for technical reasons in recent months were directly or indirectly related to covid. Its teams have made considerable efforts to meet demands and many trainings have been provided to strengthen front-line staff. Although Proximus cannot deny that these operational performance indicators have suffered during the full period of crisis, it has made every effort to ensure that they return very quickly to the expected level, which is currently reached, despite the health framework which, although necessary, still negatively influences its daily operational effectiveness. In conclusion, your question about the customization of interactions is very relevant. Indeed, it is an essential point in the experience that Proximus wishes to offer. It responds, first of all, by ensuring that each contact person has the widest possible history of the dialogue between the client and the organization. In other words, the staff member must be aware of previous contacts. The primary goal is not to impose on the client a repetition of the context of its interaction. It is on this basis that Proximus ensures the response quality of its front-line operators. However, for complex or multi-dimensional cases, the operator may request a second line of experts to take over. If the nature of the transaction justifies it, these experts take charge of the direct relationship with the customer and ensure an end-to-end follow-up of the transaction. You thus have an idea of the internal kitchen, of how they manage transactions. However, all customer service analyses show that it is important to be very careful with the introduction of an additional step, namely the specific designation of an operator for a file, due to the loss of efficiency due to a lack of scale effect, for example in response time. The possible absence of the designated contact person during an evolution of the file, the multidimensional aspect that a question often hides, all this often does not make this model effective for customers with a standard telecom profile. Proximus therefore considered how best to proceed from both an efficiency and customer satisfaction point of view. Your question also seems to me to reflect more specific or individual issues. For specific cases, Proximus informs me that it is at your disposal to provide a solution based on a perhaps more precise understanding of the requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u55	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. Of course, I have very strongly stressed the relationship between the lambdas clients and the company since, at the level of institutions, mayors, etc., there are privileged contacts. I even tried to put myself in the position of the Lambda citizen trying to contact Proximus, which was really not obvious. I therefore insist on the humanization of contacts because, in our society, there is nothing more unpleasant than this complete dehumanization in which we live, at all levels and in all companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, from a union source, it is my responsibility that the post office would consider moving the only Vervietoi post office, known as Verviers-Collège, to a peripheral area. In this case, it would be the Crescend'Eau shopping centre that would welcome it, bpost showing interest in the surface that the ING bank could release if it decided to close its agency there, which some feared. While this antenna covers the whole of the services offered by bpost, whether postal or banking, a departure would leave at the heart of the city at best only a very small offer. I can only worry about this project, even if it is still hypothetical. I would like to recall a few factual elements. Verviers is a district capital with a population of more than 55,000, making it the third largest city in the province of Liège. You will no doubt agree, Madam Minister, that the absence of a real postal service in the centre of the city would be an aberration in a locality of this importance. If I can understand the desire of the bpost to occupy more suitable premises, I believe that it should be possible to find alternative solutions in the city centre, and why not in buildings owned by the city of Verviers. Minister, do you confirm the information that bpost would consider moving this office to the Crescend'Eau site? Could you plead with the company to find alternative solutions in the city?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u57	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, first of all, bpost points out to me that she is continuously studying the various possibilities of improving her network in order to best serve its clients in the context of responsible management. With regard to moving the Verviers-Collège office to the Crescend'Eau site, bpost tells me that there is currently no concrete move plan. I can't say more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u58	Madam Minister, I am satisfied with such a short answer to the extent that it reassures me, because I am always, as a former bishop of the city of Verviers, very attentive to the centrality and polarity of the cities. I am a fierce opponent of urban and commercial sprawl. I think if we want to save our cities, we need to develop the services in their hearts as much as possible. I am pleased that, at this stage, there is no prospect of leaving the centre of the city even though, once again, I can understand that we are seeking to improve our working conditions. I will remain vigilant that this kind of rumor is never confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u59	Madam Secretary, in early 2019 Train World announced its intention to use a steam train to bring visitors to the museum. On the oldest railway line on the European mainland, Brussels-Mechelen, there would be another steam train. Since it is impossible to meet all current legal requirements with such an old train, such as automatic doors, there should be an exception to the law. Discussions with the Federal Government and the DVIS Railway Safety Authority were ongoing on this subject, said Mr Jean-Claude Fonntinoy, the Chairman of the Railway Company's Board of Directors SNCB and member of the Executive Board of Train World. First of all, what is the status of the steam train approval process? Secondly, what exceptions and adjustments should be made to allow the steam train to run? What legislative changes should be made? Thirdly, by when do you expect the whole procedure to be approved? When can the steam train be expected to start driving? Finally, how do you reconcile this with the difficult type of approval procedure that modern trains have to go through, such as the Three-Land Train or the Nightjet Sleep Train? What steps are you taking to facilitate the type approval procedure for modern trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u60	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Verhaert, for which the answer is quite technical. What is the competence of SNCB, that is to say to Mr Gilkinet, and which of DVIS, that is to say to me? As regards the process of approval of the steam train, SNCB may apply for authorisation of its rolling stock from DVIS after, inter alia, having brought its rolling stock into line with the legal requirements. Historical vehicles do not comply with current European and national regulations. Currently, the same legal conditions apply to historic rolling stock as to conventional rolling stock. The adaptation of rail regulations is the exclusive competence of my colleague responsible for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet. As far as your question on possible adjustments is concerned, I have to refer to my colleague Mr Gilkinet. DVIS is part of the steering committee set up under the previous government. In this context, DVIS conducts, with the help of a consultant, the analysis of SNCB's documents which formulate proposals for requirements which it could meet in order to give an opinion on safety. So it's complicated. The approval procedure for the issue of a licence for modern transnational trains is determined by European regulations. DVIS has no option other than to follow that procedure. "Ease" is not the word we can use. In Belgium, moreover, European legislation came into force on 31 October, when the technical part of the fourth railway package came into force. That is precisely what the aim is to harmonise and thus to make trains less inconvenienced at national borders. For the sake of completeness, I have requested information from DVIS specifically about the two trains you mentioned, the Nightjet and the Three-Land Train. The Nightjet is a project that was assessed in the legal framework of the third railway package. DVIS informs me that the existing vehicles for that project already met international requirements. In that case, no additional authorisation was required to drive that equipment in Belgium. The three-country train project concerns new equipment, which must therefore meet technical requirements, formulated at European level. That was not entirely the case here. DVIS informs me that there have been calls in the context of the third railway package, but that no application for entry into service was submitted to DVIS before 31 October, when the fourth railway package came into force. I apologise for the complicated answer, but I hope that I have been able to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. I will also question Minister Gilkinet and hopefully the initiative of the Three-Land Train can finally start.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u62	Mrs Verhaert, I will have to remind you once again of the division of competence between Mr Gilkinet for SNCB and myself for DVIS. DVIS, as you know, is an independent body. My role is, in fact, to facilitate the operation of DVIS, where it is legally determined, so that that service can perform its tasks optimally. One of the tasks of DVIS is to issue authorisations for rolling stock, except where it is intended for use in several Member States. For example, when an application is submitted for hydrogen-technology rolling stock for use in Belgium, DVIS will treat it as any application in accordance with Belgian and European rules. DVIS is, of course, also available to discuss such an application with the sector in order to anticipate any problems. If the use of the train involves several Member States, it should not be DVIS but the European Railway Agency. Although self-driving trains are a more complex example, DVIS will treat them in the same way. That is the information I can give you as the Minister responsible for DVIS. I can imagine that you will also address Mr Gilkinet on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We see that the neighbouring countries are taking many initiatives in the context of innovative trains, such as hydrogen trains, so I will certainly also ask Minister Gilkinet about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u64	Madam Secretary, fireworks are becoming easier to buy online. In the Netherlands, almost 50,000 kilograms of fireworks were seized in 2018 and another 80,000 kilograms of fireworks were intercepted in Poland that was intended for the Dutch market. That was a record. In addition to the lack of quality and safety requirements, ordering fireworks at webshops is life-threatening. The illegal fireworks ordered via webshops will then be delivered in mail packages to the private individual. The transport of illegal fireworks does not comply with the necessary transport regulations with all the risks involved. This is very dangerous both for the customer and for the roommates, neighbours and employees of the postal and distribution services. Bpost was overwhelmed with packages last year. Controls of all packages on fireworks are obviously impossible. In view of the danger, a great deal of attention should be paid to this problem. What measures does bpost take to avoid fireworks in packages and ensure the safety of postal workers? Are there any protocols for the postal workers dealing with suspicious packages? Were there any checks done last year? What were the results of these checks? Do you think that additional measures are needed to intercept banned substances in mail packages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u65	The question has reached us rather late, so I cannot give in my answer all the details that the answer might need. We can always come back to it. Of course, I had to ask Bpost in a rather short time frame. I believe it is particularly important, as a competent minister, that the security of citizens and employees is achieved through the various public enterprises within the legal framework. The transport of dangerous products, such as explosive materials, is, of course, strictly prohibited. This is also mentioned in the general terms and conditions of bpost. It is the customer's responsibility to comply with these general terms and conditions. Bpost has no mandate to control the contents of packages entrusted to her. Bpost assures me that it constantly reminds the customer of the general terms and conditions on a regular basis and in various ways. The control of fireworks in packages by bpost is therefore not only impossible because of the number, as you mentioned, but also because of the mandate of bpost. Only international packages, packages from outside the European Union, can be controlled, not by bpost but by customs. The customs authorities may check packages on a sample basis and have full authority to do so. That is all I can tell you, but I can tell you that I would like to raise this issue in the management of bpost. After all, I really want to know whether there is indeed a danger, whether there have been incidents and whether other measures are being taken. I haven't gotten any information from bpost yet that this is a problem, but I'm gonna follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I am glad that you will take this to heart. We all saw the messages during the New Year period. There have been dramatic events as a result of illegal fireworks. I would therefore like to express my concern and ask that, if necessary, some measures be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u67	Mr President, Minister, bpost has had a very busy period over the last two months. Never before have so many mail packages been sent. Despite the major challenges, services remained assured. A plume for the many postmen and the employees is definitely in place. In addition to the often negative message, there was also positive news for the customer. Bpost will deliver packages on Sundays from February. This is a large-scale one-year pilot project on which trade unions and management have agreed. This is now taking a historic step in a changing world, responding to the need to deliver packages on Sundays. The pilot project will start on 7 February and run for one year. Sunday work is only done on a voluntary basis and employees receive a wage equal to 150 % on that day, i.e. a fair remuneration. After a year, it is evaluated whether there are sufficient packages and whether there is sufficient staff to carry out the Sunday work. Is everything ready to start the pilot project on 7 February? How many employees are needed to ensure Sunday shift? Have the necessary volunteers been found yet? How many packages will be delivered on Sundays? How does this relate to an ordinary day? As far as I am concerned, workers are rightly given additional compensation to work on Sundays. Are these additional costs also passed on to the customer? In what way will this happen? When will bpost speak of a successful pilot project? Have any parameters been turned off yet? What specific objectives have been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, Mrs Vindevoghel, this subject has indeed already been touched by Mrs Dewulf. I will therefore give the same answer to your questions. The project which will start on 7 February will require a total of 226 people. At the moment, 591 people have volunteered. In addition, job students could also sign up for Sunday deliveries. 1,200 job students were willing to do this. They may not need to be involved because there are sufficient volunteers. Bpost has informed me that all these people will deliver about 10,000 packages at the start of the project. They expect this to increase to 20,000 packages by the end of 2021. That seems a lot, but that is just less than 5% of what is delivered on an average weekday. Think of the high figures in the difficult period for New Year. Bpost says she will evaluate the project as successful if she will beg 20,000 packages every Sunday at the end of this year. That might be a figure to remember. For the regions where the project is being launched, 18 offices will be used for a distribution across the Belgian territory. I have just listed them in my reply to Mrs Dewulf. I'm not gonna repeat that. I had already answered the question about sorting in Brussels X. The customers of bpost are the e-shops and the companies. They are going to pay an additional rate for Sunday deliveries, and individuals will not pay it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I like that there are so many enthusiastic people who want to work on Sundays as well. I look forward to the evaluation of this pilot project, but in my view this is a beautiful development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We will follow this up and await the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u71	With this question, I will refer to a similar discussion, namely about Mobile Vikings. Proximus has concluded an agreement with Youfone, one of the most important independent operators in the Netherlands. As a result of that agreement, Youfone will provide fixed and mobile services on the Belgian market through the Proximus network from April 2021. Youfone is a virtual player without its own network and infrastructure. Youfone is likely to sell both mobile and fixed Internet connections from April onwards. In the Netherlands they also offer television services. The telecoms company acted as a price-breaker in the Dutch telecoms market. For his services, Youfone relies on the network of KPN, a similar construction to the construction it will set up with Proximus. How will the collaboration between Proximus and Youfone manifest in Belgium? Doesn't Proximus itself organise competition by allowing virtual players who do not even have their own network and therefore do not invest in it? Isn't that going to lead to a drain from Proximus customers to Youfone? For example, Proximus will have less revenue to invest in its own national telecom network. Proximus took over Mobile Vikings before. It's aimed at young people. Proximus also targets budget customers via Scarlet. How are we supposed to see the collaboration with Youfone in this? Isn't Youfone a second Mobile Vikings or Scarlet? What profile will Youfone get in Belgium? Is there enough room on the Proximus network for another player? How many customers does Youfone aim for in Belgium? Will Proximus also treat customer service for Youfone Belgium? Did Youfone get a license from the BIPT?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u72	Some things I cannot tell you, because they are business sensitive information; Proximus has given me answers for a number of other elements. Proximus will give Youfone access to its infrastructure through a fixed and mobile wholesale offer. This means that Youfone will be the only one responsible for the organisation of his products and all relations with his customers. This includes marketing, sales and billing. It remains completely independent. As far as your question on competition is concerned, Proximus points out his considerable investments to build the best gigabit networks in Belgium according to his own words and his own ambition. Proximus has decided to open up the networks, regardless of regulatory obligations, to partners, both existing operators and new types of partners, in order to ensure the profitability of the investments and to meet the ambitions. It remains an autonomous company, which naturally seeks a place in the market. With regard to Mobile Vikings, I have just explained to Mr Freilich and Mrs Buyst. With regard to Youfone, I can say that Youfone strives for innovative products and services in the sim-only market. Those are loose subscriptions without a plane. All they get is a new SIM card. Often they are also cheaper subscriptions. That is, of course, to reduce the cost to consumers. There is therefore a specific market segment for this. Proximus also informs me that Youfone has meanwhile managed to combine this with a presence on the all-in-one market. You also asked a question about the possible saturation of the networks. I can reassure you in that regard. The management of Proximus tells me that the networks are perfectly capable of supporting those and other operators who are already active on the Proximus networks or will soon become active. There are no problems in that respect. Then I come to your question about Youfone's market share and ambitions. Proximus tells me that it cannot provide information on this. Finally, I would like to explain that Youfone remains responsible for its own products, its own customer service, as agreed in the contract with Proximus. Proximius also tells me that Youfone has obtained a license from the BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u73	Madam Minister, you have answered all the questions, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u74	Mr President, Minister, by the end of 2021, Bpost intends to move into a new distribution centre in Zwijnaarde. Bpost would rent the property and the move according to bpost is necessary in order to continue to distribute the packages in Ghent-Zuid. However, the move gives rise to great concern among neighbourhood residents who do not want heavy transport in their residential area near the new distribution centre. According to local residents, traffic pressure is already very high in Zwijnaarde and they fear that the move might lead to an unviable situation. You know I've asked about the mail train before. Now we see the problem with the distribution centres. Hence my interest in matter. I'll ask my questions first. What criteria did bpost take into account in the search for a new location for the distribution centre? Is also the local traffic nuisance caused by its own activities in the neighbourhood taken into account? Has rail or water transport facilities been taken into account, for example? How many employees will work in the new distribution centre of bpost in Zwijnaarde? Is it also creating jobs or will only employees move from location? How many trucks will drive daily in the distribution centre? Will work be done at night, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your questions. Firstly, bpost tells me that, by developing logistics activities, it is of course always looking for structural solutions to develop the activities further. The regrouping of former bpost offices in modern and adapted logistics structures is part of such solutions, which does not seem illogical to me. By bringing together the current sites in Mariakerke, Ledeberg, Merelbeke and Sint-Martens-Latem in the new mail centre in Zwijnaarde, according to bpost, delivery of packages in particular can be more targeted and more efficient. A number of parameters are indeed taken into account. Firstly, bpost indicates that it does everything it can to limit the impact on the environment of the future site in Zwijnaarde, in particular by promoting the possibilities of soft mobility. The location will also make it easier to deploy zero emission vehicles, such as electric vehicles, which is not possible today on all mentioned sites. That has to do with loading pole infrastructure. To your question about the postal trains, bpost did not answer me. However, I believe that the site for the train would not really be accessible and that a mail train cannot really be. To your question about freight traffic and the concerns of the residents, Bpost replies that it expects that between 14 and 20 lorries will arrive in the centre every day and leave there. Of course, we do not know what is still possible in terms of growth in the coming years. At the moment, however, that is the calculation. Those journeys are divided over a whole day, so the fourteen to twenty trucks do not arrive at a peak moment; that number runs up and down all day. Projects are also actively sought to reduce the nuisance, for example by using double deckers, which can reduce the number of journeys. So we are aware of the problem. On the issue of mobility, it is also important to mention that there will be a discussion with the city of Ghent in the near future and then with the inhabitants themselves, which is a good thing. You also asked how many employees will be employed there. This is an increase of a total of 9 people, bringing the total to 177. The number of employees from the existing sites thus leads to an additional 9 employees. Finally, I would also like to say that the solar panels on the roof of the new building will serve specifically for charging stations to charge electric vehicles as soon as they are deployed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u76	Madam Minister, I have already heard that solar panels are being installed on the buildings. I asked this question because we consider it important that several criteria should be considered when setting up a new distribution centre. For example, I hope that you, as a green minister, will be able to evaluate whether a distribution centre close to a waterway or railway can be located. The mayor of Ghent also runs a coalition of which your party is a member. The increase in lorries should be limited, especially if a distribution centre is located in a densely populated residential environment. All these elements need to be carefully studied in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic351x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda. Minister, thank you for your input and responses.
