ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the FPS Finance website has announced since 15 January 2021 that: "The application of the circular on the exemption of VAT in the field of psychology, orthopedagogy and psychotherapy is suspended. The circular is considered to have never existed. This applies only to persons who were already performing psychotherapy on 1 September 2016, but who are not entitled to an "acquired right" under the public health regulations. Family and school counselling services provided by this category of persons will now be exempted provided that such persons can provide evidence of relevant experience." Minister, could you please elaborate on the reasons for the suspension of this circular and provide further information on the persons and professions affected by this exemption extension? How will the FPS Finance verify that these individuals can provide evidence of relevant experience? From what date does this measure take effect? If, since 1 September 2016, the FPS Finances has collected VAT on these benefits, while the High Administrative Court has suspended this circular, what about the collection of VAT when they were potentially undue? Is there a refund procedure? Will you ask your administration to further clarify what is on its website?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u2	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, the motion for suspension of Circular 2020/C/73 was brought before the Council of State by persons who perform psychotherapy but cannot claim what is called "acquired rights". According to the information of my administration, this category of practitioners is not recognized by the FPS Public Finances and for this reason has been excluded from the VAT exemption for services related to school or family guidance. In this respect, the position of the Council of State is that by limiting the exemption from VAT to certain categories of psychotherapists and by automatically excluding from this exemption other categories, in particular those who performed psychotherapy before 1 September 2016, the circular is in violation of the Constitution. Psychotherapy can be performed by doctors, licensed clinician psychologists and licensed clinician orthopedagogues. In addition, psychotherapy can also be exercised by three additional categories of persons with acquired rights. Practitioners who perform psychotherapy other than those referred to above can now also exempt their educational or family counselling benefits provided they can provide evidence of relevant experience in one of these areas. This evidence may be provided at their discretion through publications or references on a website. Since the implementing measures establishing the criteria for the recognition of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues entered into force on 1 January 2020, this date is also the starting point for the exemption of psychotherapists. Psychotherapists currently identified with VAT and who are considered for the application of the exemption from school and family guidance benefits may therefore become mixed or exempt taxable persons. They will have to contact the department of the General Administration of Taxation responsible for their files. My administration is currently preparing an additional publication on this issue concerning, inter alia, the consequences of the exemption. It will communicate it to professional organisations in the sector concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll read them in detail because it's hard to react right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u4	Minister, as you know, the moratorium on bankruptcies, designed to respond to the economic emergency and to avoid cascading bankruptcies in many sectors, ended on 31 January. One of the reasons for stopping this moratorium is that it was necessary to stop putting other companies into difficulty. Of course, suppliers that could be put in trouble if their customers did not pay for them or called for a moratorium. On the other hand, about 80% of bankruptcies are pronounced at the request of the State, either via the ONSS or via the tax administration mainly through VAT. During the debates in the Committee on the Economy, in particular on the bill that will be passed tomorrow in plenary on the PRJ – the setting up of a judicial reorganization procedure in connection with the Covid-19 until June – I asked your colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne the question to clarify the period between the end of the moratorium at the end of January and the time to reform the PRJ. Between these two moments, will the state, through the Minister of Justice and through yourself, ask its services not to mention bankrupt companies, either through the ONSS or through the tax administration? Vincent Van Quickenborne had confirmed that he would do so in time for the law to be passed. We're gonna vote this law on the PRJ tomorrow. What instructions have you given to your administration? Can we continue this way, perhaps until the end of June, where most covid-19 rules are extended? It is well known that the situation on the ground is extremely complicated. I think it would be interesting if the state refrained from citing bankruptcy until a certain period, let us imagine until the end of June or otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u5	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, it is clear that companies that have encountered difficulties and accumulated tax debts as a result of the coronavirus crisis must be protected. Therefore, and in order to give these companies a little respite, I gave my administration formal instruction not to take any enforcement action with respect to these companies. This protection measure will apply for the time being until March 31, 2021 to companies whose tax debts were incurred after December 31, 2019, only so-called "corona" debts. This protection measure obviously does not apply where debts arise, for example, from a finding of fraud or in the case of an insolvency organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u6	Minister, thank you for that answer. You don't always have to be very long to be clear. This is indeed very important because we know that the state, at 80%, is the basis of the bankrupt quotes. We would like to reassess this by March 31, 2021. This is an effective measure because it does not put other private suppliers in difficulty. This is to be re-evaluated at the end of March. We'll be there soon. It is true that we are voting on a text tomorrow, but it is not going to solve everything. Minister, we know that the difficulty on the ground is enormous. Thank you for your clarity. We will return to this issue at the end of March. So far, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u7	Mr Minister, in the current crisis, the role of banks in supporting SMEs and the self-employed is a matter of great concern to the Ecolo-Groen Group and is the subject of many debates. You know that a hearing of CEOs from all Belgian banks was held last week in the Joint Committee on Economy and Finance. Unfortunately, this has not provided full clarity as to the role banks must play in this crisis. The carryovers of appropriations until 30 June under the agreement you entered into with Febelfin and the loans guaranteed by the State, at the initiative of your government, are new measures which, on paper, are positive. However, returns are particularly bad, particularly on the side of the most fragile sectors. I'm thinking of the Horeca, the event, the culture. All of these activities feel left out, or even blacklisted, and regret the absence of a case-by-case analysis. Last week, the CEOs of the banks told me that no blacklists had been drawn up. However, the echoes remain extremely negative. Banks must play their societal role. However, it seems to us that this is not entirely the case at the moment. Minister, could you please clarify whether banks that sign up for the protocol you signed with Febelfin must accept a credit deferral if a company so requests? Do all sectors have the right to do so? With regard to the granting of new loans under the State guarantee, will the new protocol that you intend to put in place with the banks be applied to all sectors, including the Horeca and the event? We see on the ground that there are many denials of credit. Finally, if the situation persists and returns continue to be negative, is it expected that you will review the area to analyse the situation on the ground? For our part, it is clear that, if necessary, we will re-audition the banks in the parliamentary committee. For us, the current situation is not acceptable, despite the efforts made at the government level and which we welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u8	Colleagues, as you rightly point out, a new agreement has been reached with the banking sector, Febelfin, to extend the period of payment deferrals for companies. With regard to the solution for companies that have already benefited from a nine-month deferral of payment under the first and/or second charter, I can tell you the following. Under this supplementary scheme, carryovers may also be granted until 30 June 2021 at the latest. The conditions under which a company can automatically benefit from this deferral at its request from the bank are the fact that the company had to be financially sound before the covid-19 crisis and must have fulfilled its payment obligations. These concrete conditions are set out in detail in the Third Charter. The supplementary deferral scheme applies to all sectors. There is therefore no distinction to this guarantee between, for example, those areas that are in containment and those that are not. As for your second question concerning the granting of credits under the State guarantee scheme, I can provide you with the following information. The current state guarantee scheme still in force is the one which originates from the law of 20 July 2020, the so-called State guarantee 2. This scheme, which applies to credit lasting between 12 months and 5 years, is optional in contrast to a first guarantee scheme for credit up to 12 months, which has since been abolished. The granting or not of credit, whether guaranteed by the State or not, is therefore a question of the individual freedom of the bank. The State guarantee scheme has been designed to facilitate the granting of credits. In concrete terms, this means that it is planned to facilitate, thanks to the State guarantee, the acquisition of credit by companies which would have difficulty obtaining credit due to the crisis. The maximum use of the State guarantee is not an end in itself. The State guarantee means that the State assumes 80 per cent of the credit risk with the State guarantee 2. It should be noted that the SME Financing Act has regulated the granting of credit to SMEs. This also means, among other things, that an SME requesting credit and being refused the right to be informed of the reasons for the refusal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u9	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer given the importance of the subject. I note from your answer that all sectors are concerned, including those that are still closed today because of confinement and are the most fragile. No black listing! The message is really important. It is also a fact that a refusal must be justified, and I think I have found, from what I have to say, that this is too rarely the case. Or we are talking about sectors, but again it is not possible because all sectors are concerned. Continuous monitoring is really necessary. You do it on your side and we do it on our side too. If necessary, it will be necessary to discuss again with the sector, both at the level of government and at the level of Parliament - to hold hearings if necessary. The current situation is still very worrying. We know that the outlook is starting to point for the Horeca and the event. But by then, these sectors must be able to hold. We are committed to protecting this top-level economic fabric, which includes our TPEs, SMEs, independents and horeca. Thank you for your involvement in this issue. We will be very willing partners with you in relation to the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u10	Madam President, Minister, Brussels Airport Company is the operator of our national airport, Belgium's second most important economic pole, which has been in a very serious economic and social crisis for a year now. The Board of Directors of BAC therefore has an important role to play in the Belgian economy. The current Chairman of BAC's Board of Directors is currently Mr Descheemaecker, who was politically appointed Chairman in 2013. Before that, he had served as interim chairman for two years. How long is Marc Descheemaecker's current term of office as chairman of the BAC Board of Directors? When will new elections be held for that same mandate? What procedures should new candidates go through?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u11	Mrs Vindevoghel, it was indeed announced in the Belgian Official Gazette that the annual General Assembly of BAC decided on 12 May 2020 to appoint Mr Descheemaecker as director for a period of 1 year and to nominate him as chairman of the Management Board. The Governing Board of 27 May 2020 subsequently appointed him as Chairperson until the ordinary general meeting of 2021. The director nominated for the Presidency shall be appointed by the General Assembly of BAC. The State has no decision-making power in this regard. The appointment takes place after an agreement between the different shareholders and the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u12	Minister, we think this is important, because it is an important mandate. It's about an important economic pole in our country. We want a little more transparency on the procedures for the new members of the Management Board. We also believe that this is the case for all public authorities, such as BOZAR or SNCB. This is also important for Brussels Airport Company. Users and citizens should also be able to sit on board boards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u13	Minister, Le Soir announced on February 16th that the UN Sanctions Committee had refused to order the thawing of Libyan funds placed in Europe to compensate the Global Sustainable Development Trust (GSDT), an association in liquidation. This file is not new. It's almost a saga. As a reminder, this ASBL was created by Prince Laurent for environmental projects, in this case a reforestation project in Libya, which was then aborted after the Libyan State unilaterally denounced the contract binding it to the ASBL GSDT. These funds were supposed to be used to repay the ASBL of some EUR 50 million after several judgments had been rendered, giving all reason to the ASBL GSDT and its liquidator, trying for years to recover the sums due. These Libyan funds belong to the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA), which, according to the Paris Court of Appeal, does indeed come from the Libyan state. However, the United Nations Sanctions Committee would have refused the thawing of these funds on the contrary. The Foreign Minister of the Libyan government welcomed this decision of the UN Sanctions Committee by calling this event a "clear and explicit message to all those who are trying to undermine Libyan funds". Minister, my questions will be quite simple in a matter that actually dates back several years and began to be handled under the previous legislature. Does the Belgian Government intend, through you, to issue a right of reply to what the UN Sanctions Committee has planned? Does the ASBL intend to react? Are you in contact with her? Our objective is to understand the various issues at stake, the analyses, the interpretation around this thorny issue of Libyan funds and their release; moreover, not only in the dossier of the ASBL GSDT. What are the options on the table? Which ones do you think are most relevant for a possible reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u14	As Mr Vanden Burre has said, this is indeed a saga that I have been in this Finance Committee for several years with the minister's predecessors. So we have one more episode in this saga of the ASBL GSDT founded by Prince Laurent. On 12 February, the UN sanctions committee refused to thaw Libyan funds held at Euroclear. This thaw could have compensated this asbl to the tune of 50 million euros if I am not mistaken, as prescribed by several judgments. The ASBL has indeed benefited from favourable judgments in Belgium, but there is therefore this blocking on the part of the UN Sanctions Committee. First, why did the UN Sanctions Committee refuse thawing? Then, what does the government intend to do as a result of this UN decision? Last but not least, why do these differences in treatment exist? Why has the government, in the past, accepted the thawing of Libyan funds for astronomical amounts – I don't remember them anymore, but it goes much further than 50 million euros – against the UN's opinion when today the government seems to be more in line with the UN position? Without taking sides in Prince Laurent's case, I would like to question you, minister, on the double standards aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u15	The Belgian government supported the ASBL GSDT in liquidation in its efforts to recover its debt founded against the Libyan State and was denied the use of the frozen Libyan funds. The letter of the chairman of the 1970 Committee concerning Libya of 12 February 2021, in response to the request for thawing, specifies that LIA does not have a contract with GSDT and that the ownership of frozen funds belongs to LIA, which did not authorize thawing, so that the conditions of § 21 of Resolution 1970 are not met. Notwithstanding the fact that various courts and tribunals have held that LIA is an emanation of the Libyan State, it is clear that, in the context of restrictive measures against Libya, this is not the case. I would also point out that the European Commission, by its opinion of 5 January 2018, had already specified that, within the framework of the European Regulation against Libya, LIA is not the Libyan State. Therefore, and on the basis of the elements in the file, the government cannot thaw Libyan funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will continue to follow this issue as a whole, a matter that has been dealt with in depth in the last Parliament. This remains a case with many interpretations, analyses and issues. Thank you for that answer at this stage. We will most likely return to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u17	Minister, thank you for your clarification. I note that, as a first step, the government supported Prince Laurent's ASBL on the basis of the judgements of several courts and tribunals, and that the government then adopted another position following the opinion of both the European Commission and the UN Sanctions Committee. It remains the question which, for me, was the main question and to which I have no answer: why, in the past, did the Belgian Government accept the thawing of Libyan funds for other beneficiaries, money which, it is said, would have disappeared and which would even be in the hands of certain militias? Obviously, this question will not be answered by the minister today. Maybe it'll be for the next time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u18	Minister, on 16 February 2021, you announced that you would like to adapt the taxpayer's Charter after more than three decades, so that police detectives and tax inspectors can work better together on major fraud cases again. The government wants to deploy five major multidisciplinary investigation teams to investigate major fraud cases. These teams would be placed as a permanent structure with the federal judicial police. Due to the current provisions in the Charter cited above, cooperation with the tax inspection services is apparently not so easy. There is, of course, already consultation through the una via-scheme, but the new College for the fight against tax and social fraud must now, apparently, draw up a proposal to allow the officials of the BBI to cooperate better with the courts in serious cases of tax fraud and this under the leadership of a magistrate. Tax officials could therefore act as a judicial police officer. In mid-January, you replied that you instructed the new College to draw up a joint multiannual action plan. This action plan would be submitted to the Ministerial Committee and form the basis for the government's coordinated fraud policy. Can you explain the announcement on the adjustment of the taxpayer's Charter? Has there been any proposal for concrete cooperation between the judicial police and the BBI? Can you give us a more detailed explanation? What is the state of play with regard to the Joint Multiannual Action Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u19	Thank you, Mr Ravyts, for these two interesting questions. In 1986 the taxpayer's Charter was intended to restrict the intervention in the criminal proceedings of tax officials, which means that these officials are no longer allowed to participate actively in criminal investigations as experts. As a result, the BBI cannot participate in various multidisciplinary initiatives, with high political expectations, such as the Power Plan, the Channel Plan or the action against dormant companies. The proposal has not yet been worked out in concrete legal texts, but I am inclined to believe that a competent magistrate temporarily authorizes a tax officer to take action in the capacity of a judicial police officer or auxiliary officer of the King's Attorney for a specific period of time in specific punctual investigations into large-scale tax fraud. This statute will enable tax officials not only to participate in the multidisciplinary research teams, but also to complete the tax-administrative section. I refer in this context to the Social Criminal Code, where social inspectors of the same capacity are held. For a limited number of articles of the Criminal Code, certain officials specifically designated for this purpose are also given the status of a judicial police officer or auxiliary officer of the King's Attorney General. The College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud has already met four times since its creation in November 2020. Members have each presented the challenges of their organisation, but certainly also the possibilities for a more targeted and efficient fight against fraud. They also put forward proposals to improve the fight against social and tax fraud by means of closer cooperation or exchange of information. These proposals are now being discussed in detail and will shortly be presented to the Ministerial Committee on the fight against tax and social fraud. Mr Ravyts, in implementation of the coalition agreement, the College for the fight against tax and social fraud began its work and tasks on 30 November, on the same day as the Royal Decree establishing the College was published. Today, three months later, a board table of projects based on the coordination of the fight against fraud has been approved by the College. That happened last Monday. The board table will also be submitted to the Ministerial Committee. This board table will form the basis for the first draft action plan, with which the government, in coordination with all the departments concerned, will continue to fight fraud. Its main objective is to strengthen the fairness of public systems and also to support their financing. At the start of this government, the plans for the year 2021 of the various members of the College were already advanced in such a way that they were chosen not to interfere with that planning. As a result, the various individual plans for the year 2021 have been approved by the respective Executive Boards in good time and are already in progress. The action plan 2021 for combating social fraud was also adopted at the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021 and it is being fully rolled out by my colleagues. On top of that, there is the board table with projects, with which we want to bring forward the coordinated story. However, we have learned that we will do this coordination for the following year 2022 from the start of the preparation of the various individual plans. It is also intended to include this in the College's mandates for this autumn, because of course the College is responsible for drawing up the multiannual action plan and its coordinated implementation. In this way, I would like to thank all the members of the College for their commitment, cooperation and proposals. Despite Corona, we have done a great deal of work on a very short period of time with a large number of projects, which we will and wish to develop in the coming period, but which should initially be submitted to the Ministerial Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. After the board table has been approved by the Ministerial Committee, I hope that Parliament will also have access to it. That shouldn't be a problem. I also call on this committee to pay due attention to this. Your idea of having tax officials act as judicial police officers in specific punctual investigations would, of course, be an important step forward. They've been palavering about that for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u21	Mr Minister, the preparations for the reopening of the catering industry are a very dynamic story. I'll take you back to February 11, 2021 in the Chamber. Then you stated that you had a number of proposals ready to further support the hospitality sector. You stated that you would want to reduce VAT on restaurant and catering costs again from 21% to 6%, just like last year. In addition, you put on the table a proposal to tax incentives for landlords for the months of March, April and May to cancel part of the rent or the full rent for café and restaurant owners. The remission could then be applied as a tax reduction of 30%. That last measure, the tax relief on rent waivers, was indeed included in a new aid package that was knocked off at the nuclear cabinet on 12 February. A number of existing measures were also extended which were due to expire at the end of March. As regards the catering sector, the nuclear cabinet of 12 February adopted a number of transversal measures, such as general aid to companies and self-employed persons, and an exemption from the BFSA levies was also noted. However, the extension of the 100% deductibility for reception costs and the VAT reduction were not mentioned. Everything is evolving, of course. We know that the catering industry was a guest of your colleague, Minister Clarinval, last week for further discussions. We know that the aid rate in the Flemish protection mechanism has been increased and we know that an additional envelope for crisis support measures is being negotiated now that it is actually certain that the reopening will not be possible before 1 May. I would nevertheless like to hear from you the state of play for the VAT reduction and the 100% deductibility of reception costs. Has this been decided yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u22	Mr Ravyts, the government has indeed taken a number of measures, including the measures you have cited. It also divides aid and rehabilitation measures. Aid measures will be launched or extended for those sectors which are closed today or which are struggling. With recovery measures, we want to support re-launch. The proposals you are referring to can therefore either fall under the umbrella of aid measures or fall under the umbrella of recovery measures. As regards measures to support the catering industry in the area of income tax and VAT, the 100% deductibility of representation costs and the VAT reduction are important recovery measures at the time the catering industry restarts. In the case of the aid measures, I count among other things the measure to encourage the landlords to deduct the rent of the part of a property used for a business activity. Trade rent is, as you yourself have mentioned, an important monthly cost for many traders and therefore also for catering operators. If those costs go through when there are no revenue, it is important to look for support options. We have done so by convincing the landlords of buildings intended for professional use with a tax advantage to completely or largely cancel the rent, by offering them a tax reduction of 30% on the cancelled rent. In this way, the tenants affected by a mandatory closure will be given the necessary breathing space. The preliminary draft for these last support measures was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. If other recovery measures are taken in the future, we will, of course, publish them in good time, but we are currently considering what broader package can be proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for this clarification on aid measures and recovery measures. I am sometimes contacted by people from the catering industry, who of course also followed the government's reports on 12 February. They initially see the transversal support measures, but they do not immediately make the link that there is a difference with recovery measures. In any case, I hope that the rate of 6% will be certain and that this will continue to apply for a long time, for example until the end of the year. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u24	Madam President, Minister, you are Minister of Finance and also Deputy Prime Minister for your Party, CD&V. With the institutional debate, included in the coalition agreement, CD&V has, in its own words, won a nice trophy. During this period of government, a new round of state reform will be prepared. Two ministers, including your party colleague Annelies Verlinden, as Minister for Institutional Reforms, have been given powers to do so. I would like to know how this institutional debate is being handled, how serious it is being taken, how many people are being deployed and what budgets are being allocated to it. I also asked Minister Verlinden how she, as Minister for the Interior, organizes and combines this in her cabinet with her Institutional Reforms. Her answer was that two advisers were competent to do so throughout her cabinet. I put the same question to Minister Clarinval and he appears to employ 6.5 staff equivalent in his cabinet. When I went through the question, Minister Verlinden said that my consideration was wrong, because all these people actually work together and also follow the institutional dossier in other cabinets, insinuating the other offices of vice-premiers in particular. That's why I'm making a round. I have already spoken to several of your fellow Vice-Presidents. From Minister Verlinden I understand that she and Minister Clarinval, in a sense, wants to stand above the debate as a neutral arbitrator. That is why I expect you to defend the CD-V line in the institutional discussions of the government. Mr. Secretary, is that correct? If so, how many people do you bet on that? How much expertise are we talking about? How many employees have been specifically released for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u25	Madam President, Mr Loones, like every Deputy Prime Minister, I do have a general policy cell, which helps shape the areas of competence of the other trade ministers. There is therefore a policy officer in my cabinet who succeeds the domain of Institutional Reforms. At present, no official in my policy body is responsible for the elaboration of the state reform in itself or any of its elements. Depending on the content of the reform proposals to be discussed, several policy staff can be involved with expertise in the field in question. It is not just about institutional reform in itself, but often also about very specific issues and competences. The policy staff working on these competences or policy areas can certainly be involved. They will, of course, be made available for any consultations. I can also tell you that there are currently no external experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u26	Mr. Secretary, I'm getting the same thing everywhere. You have one person in your cabinet for this and if necessary others can also be involved. Mr Van Quickenborne gave the same answer. However, when asked about it, it turns out to be a lawyer for general matters. Mrs De Sutter was also concerned with one person, who also appeared to be the lawyer. It would be interesting, especially for CD&V, to put extra expertise and manpower on that. Again, in the cabinet of the Minister responsible for Institutional Reforms, there are only two men on it. I hope there'll be backup. Mr Vice Prime Minister, it is not just a question of preparing this state reform; the government agreement also provides for the possibility of implementing asymmetric policies. You are also Minister of Finance and you can use this provision to organise tailor-made policies that meet Flemish, Walloon, Brussels or German-speaking needs. You already have that opportunity, you do not have to wait for a state reform or 2024. You can start immediately, but you'll have to put some manpower on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u27	The next item on the agenda is Question No 55014333C by Mrs Rohonyi, who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u28	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the tax retirement. Through the Law of 23 March 2019 amending the Income Tax Code on the tax provisions of the job deal, the decades of so-called tax pension trap were resolved during the previous legislature. After all, countless people who earned something extra during their retirement paid so much taxes that they actually neted back. However, there is now a judgment of 11 February 2021 of the Constitutional Court which answers a number of questions for a preliminary ruling on the possible infringement of Article 154 of the Code cited above and Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. It is about a retired person who lost a tax advantage of around 500 euros due to an additional income of 62.50 euros. Several experts agree that the tax authorities must, on their own initiative, make a correction for people who happened to cross the same line by means of a side-serve. What do these specialists say? The tax authorities are aware of the new fact, which would mean that they would have to be automatically reimbursed in the coming months without having to ask for it. After all, you may note that the matter has been resolved, but the tax authorities obviously go back five years in time. What are the consequences of the judgment on the FPS Finance? Does it mean that others who have fallen into the same tax pension trap can also expect an automatic refund? What exactly are the dates of the return? Minister, I think this was even about seat badges. I am not entirely sure, but that was the question of which the Constitutional Court answered questions for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u29	Minister, section 154 of the Income Tax Code was amended in 2019 by the introduction of a tier to remove a tax trap for pensioners. This tax trap, which has been discussed at length with your predecessor, meant that for a certain income group, pensioners receiving an increase in their gross pension saw this increase totally eaten by tax. Taking into account the municipal additions, there was sometimes a net loss in relation to the gross increase. We hoped that all of this had been resolved by the 2019 amendment, but in a ruling delivered on February 11, 2021, the Constitutional Court overturned this provision by discriminating between pensioners who do not benefit from income other than their pension, who benefit from the level, and pensioners who receive other income (even low income) in addition to their pension, who are not entitled to the level. Minister, what are the effects of the judgment on the taxpayers concerned? How do you envisage eliminating the discrimination identified by the Constitutional Court while avoiding the tax trap for pensioners? How long are you considering a possible legislative initiative to address these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u30	Thank you for all your questions. My administration has taken note of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 February 2021 and is still examining the scope of the ruling. The Constitutional Court has limited its ruling to the situation in which a taxable person with a limited pension receives a small other income. A judgment of the Constitutional Court is to be regarded as a new fact as provided for in Article 376 (1) of the Income Tax Code 1992. An official exemption may be applied for within five years from 1 January of the year in which the tax is established. This means in the case file for attacks established from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u31	So we're still looking at the scope. Thank you for your clarification on the ex-officio exemption and the tax year from when possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It makes a number of things clear. I do think it is important for those concerned to know what their rights are and the consequences of the ruling of the Constitutional Court. That is why I would suggest that when the analysis is ready, we communicate clearly on this issue, so that taxpayers at least know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u33	I can agree with the previous speakers. Perhaps I should remind you, together with them, of the matter in a small month's time, Minister, will that be enough to analyse the judgment and take a stand? Then we'll be happy to return to you in a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u34	Minister, you have no answer, so I have no reply. Since February 11, 2021, you have not had time to analyse this ruling of the Constitutional Court and to examine its scope. We will therefore come back later with these same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u35	Madam President, Minister, at the moment almost the entire territory of the province of Flemish Brabant is covered by the 'decommissioned zone' scheme. This scheme encourages companies to make additional recruitments through partial exemption from the transfer of pre-tax payments, under certain conditions, of course, such as the retention of employment. As a result of the corona crisis, many companies suffer from an economic downturn, which means that many of them have to make use of the temporary unemployment system and, unfortunately, a number of other companies are forced to let go of a number of people. In the normal application of the conditions of the dislocated zone, this would mean that these companies would no longer be entitled to the exemption from pre-tax. Today, however, we do not live in those normal times. We face a major challenge in terms of relance and, in my view, the aid scheme for disrupted zones can be part of the relance, as it attracts investments that increase the employment rate. Can you tell me how many files were submitted by SMEs for the Zaventem-Vilvoorde assisted area and how many of them were approved? What are the figures for large enterprises? What is the relationship with other assisted areas? Is the impact of the corona epidemic taken into account when assessing compliance with the conditions of the aid zone scheme? Is a distinction to be made, for example, between those companies where redundancies are to be entirely attributed to economic activity in their sector as a result of the epidemic and those where this is not the case? Does recourse to temporary unemployment have an effect on the entitlement to the exemption from the transfer of the farm levy? Finally, how do you evaluate the scheme of these assisted areas today? Can an adjustment of the conditions be part of the re-launch measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u36	Minister, three zones are currently recognised in Flanders as a dislocated zone, the region around Genk, the region around Zaventem and Vilvoorde and the region around Turnhout in the Kempen. For the latter, this happened in 2014 following a number of collective redundancies. As a result, companies wishing to invest in these areas benefit from tax relief. As a Kempenaar, I have a double feeling about this aid measure. In fact, I do not want it to be applied anywhere, because if one applies it, it is a sign that it is going badly. Nevertheless, we have to admit that this measure has created work. Since then, many new jobs have been created in the dislocated zones, precisely because the measure encouraged companies to invest. This approach has therefore been successful. This period is becoming a little more economical again. Both the Brexit and the Corona crisis will weigh on our economy and employment over the next few years. My fear is that the effects will be greatest in the fragile areas that are now receiving our support as a dislocated zone. I therefore hope that it will not come to that, but in order not to undermine the efforts that have been made, I think that an extension of the aid to the Kempen region would certainly be desirable. The current recognition for the assisted area expires at the end of April. A decision is therefore urgent. In the meantime, the European Commission decided on 19 October to extend the regional aid map by one year, i.e. until 31 December 2021. The general block exemption has already been extended to 2023. Mr Minister, is an extension of the existing recognition, pending the consequences of the corona crisis and the Brexit and in view of the European extension, an option for you? Is there any more clarity on the regional guidelines that the European Commission proposes for the period 2022-2027? Have you taken the commitment to draw up the new framework together with the Regions? Where do you stand with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u37	Minister, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members, in particular by Mrs Verhaert on the Kempen region. I also questioned you a few months ago with some Kempenaars and Limburgers about this. You indicated at that time that you fully realised the importance of the scheme for the dislocated zones. However, the application of the scheme in relation to the aid zones in Kempen and Limburg expires on 30 April 2021. That day is coming very close. The Regional Platform Kempen, which is regionally active and brings together political actors, social partners and the Boerenbond, has been a very positive assessment of the aid scheme. The corona crisis and Brexit are not of that nature to interrupt the support mechanisms. You said last time, Minister, that you would consult the regional governments on the possible extension of the mechanism. Did that meeting take place yet? What initiatives will you take to ensure that the scheme for the areas already recognised is maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u38	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I agree with Mr Vanbesien. The Zaventem-Vilvoorde region, which is not an easy region, has benefited a great deal from this support. Because of the corona crisis and the collapse of the airport sector, we are, of course, even more in trouble. I would therefore like to add my voice to the questions of knowing what support has already been given, how it is going and how you see it in the corona crisis. What are your specific proposals in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u39	Colleagues, the exemption from the transfer of farm levy for assisted areas was created to support economically a region affected by large-scale collective redundancies for a maximum period of six years. At the end of this period, the affected region shall be deemed to be able to stand on its own feet. The period of application of the first assisted areas will soon expire. As Mrs Buyst just mentioned and as I said last time, it is important that the region concerned should carry out an economic evaluation of that measure. On the basis of this evaluation, the government can then consider whether it is necessary to revise the demarcation rules, but until such time as this has been done, the current demarcation rules will remain in force. We will discuss this with the Regions on 18 March, if I am not mistaken. I am not in favour of simply extending the legal term of six years. The oldest two assisted areas were defined after large-scale collective redundancies which took place more than eight years ago. Although I certainly do not want to minimize the economic impact of these events, I do not think that, on the basis of the events at the time, after the current deadline of these assisted areas, one can justify a difference in treatment between these assisted areas and the rest of the territory. On the other hand, I am in favour of opening up new areas of aid on the basis of recent events. I am thinking in particular of the corona crisis and the Brexit. In this sense, the track has already been explored in order to be able to apply this measure in a more generalised way throughout the territory for a short period of time. For the time being, however, this measure has not yet been taken into account in the package of aid measures which the government will shortly submit to Parliament. This does not, of course, mean that such a measure cannot end up on the government table again at a later stage. There were also a number of specific questions about concrete figures. I can inform you that in the Zaventem-Vilvoorde assisted area, 46 files were submitted by SMEs. Of these, 43 were approved. No files were submitted by large companies. The aid requested was estimated at EUR 1.4 million, providing 304 new jobs. As regards other assisted areas, in Genk it concerns 385 SME files, of which 14 were not approved, and 32 were submitted by large companies, of which 1 was not approved. For the Turnhout assisted area, 339 SME files were not approved, 13 of which were not approved, and two large companies. In Herstal, these are 10 SME files, one of which is not approved, and three large companies. In Charleroi, four SME files were submitted, two of which were not approved, and one by a large company. In Frameries, 14 SME files were submitted, one of which was not approved, and none by a large company. The various laws with the support measures under the COVID-19 pandemic have not made any changes to the exemption from the transfer of the farm levy for investments carried out in an establishment located in an assisted area. Therefore, the legal conditions for claiming the aid remain unchanged. This means that if a workplace for which this aid was applied has not been maintained for the required minimum period of three or five years, regardless of whether this is due to the COOVID-19 pandemic, the employer will have to pay the unpaid farm levy. During the period during which the employer makes use of the temporary unemployment scheme, the workplace itself will be retained. The employer pays or does not pay any remuneration in respect of this job and therefore does not impose any corporate tax which is eligible for the exemption. Finally, I can also say that the European Commission has not yet published the new regional guidelines, but the aid measure is based only to a lesser extent on these guidelines. They are therefore only important for large companies wishing to benefit from this measure. On the other hand, the aid granted to SMEs through this measure is based on the General Block Exemption Regulation, the period of application of which has been extended until the end of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u40	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Your answer is a mix of measures, on the one hand, the further handling of the normal functioning of the disrupted zones and, on the other hand, the idea of using the same or similar mechanism temporarily throughout Flanders as part of the relay. I think this is a good idea. It may be an instrument that can help relance our SMEs, provided that we examine the criteria and temporarily adjust them in order to achieve that relance. You will find a partner in us to investigate and further develop that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u41	Mr Minister, as a Kempenaar, I have a double feeling about this aid measure. In fact, I do not want it to be applied anywhere, because it is a sign that there must be a little bit of employment. The aid measure has really paid off in our region and created additional jobs. It's a region that was hit by a lot of layoffs. Even after the corona crisis, our region will be able to use this instrument well. I am therefore very interested in the follow-up. I heard two tracks. After the corona crisis, there will be a real need for action. I also await the discussion with the Regions and hope that the necessary measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u42	Thank you for your reply, Minister. An evaluation of such a support mechanism is a sign of good governance. It is good that talks are planned with the Regions. You did say that a few months ago. Regions that were already struggling get it extra hard because of the corona crisis. We must not underestimate that. There is therefore a need for careful consideration of how these regions can be included in the relance. I therefore call for proper consultation, proper evaluation and for those regions to be able to participate in the relay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u43	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much for your reply. What strikes me is the huge difference between the number of support files: four in Charleroi, 400 in Genk. Is that because a lot of promotion has been made for one and not for the other? Or are there simply no SMEs in Charleroi? There are obviously a lot of them in Genk. Halle-Vilvoorde has 46. That's not so bad, but not as much as in the Kempen and in Genk. Forty-six is an important number. I try briefly to summarize your answer in order to understand it well and certainly to pass it on to the Flemish colleagues. There will be consultations with the Länder next week. You want a new model, because the current model has been a bit outdated since corona. The concept of dislocated zones still supports you. You'll see what new zones there have been since the Brexit and since the corona crisis. You also say that your plan has not yet been approved by the core but you continue to ask and you go in consultation with the Länder. That's the summary I'm going to make of it. I see you nodding, so it'll be about that summary I'm passing on to the people inside my party, and then we'll see if we're still going for it. Of course, I'm still an advocate of my own province. Not that I'm such a provincialist. But when you talk about the impact of corona on a province, I can tell you that Flemish Brabant, and certainly Halle-Vilvoorde, is extremely hard hit, just because the airport is completely flat. You know that, too. You've received those companies, too. In our committee we get an update almost every month. I assume that also in the new context Halle-Vilvoorde will play a role. I keep pulling this file, along with my good friend and colleague, Dieter Vanbesien. The kiss of death.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u44	Madam President, I apologize to the interpreters at the outset because I am unable to use a microphone. I know it complicates their work, but I'm having a problem with my computer. Minister, the press tells us that the Portuguese Presidency has decided to take its pilgrim stick by organising a meeting on the introduction of a tax on financial transactions (TTF). We have already talked about this a few times, the Socialists believe that we are at a key moment in rethinking our society by focusing our action on tax justice. This tax justice involves, among other things, the introduction of a tax on financial transactions. In addition, to finance its recovery plan, the European Union will need special resources. According to the information available, it seems that the compromise proposed by the Portuguese Presidency raises a fundamental question for the Member States: are they open to an initial version of the FTT to be adopted this year, which would include stock derivatives? While this would not yet be the most ambitious version of the financial transaction tax, it would still be a remarkable step forward, particularly in relation to our country's position under the previous government. Minister, do you confirm that this compromise is on the table? Could you explain to us how the February 24 meeting took place? Do you confirm that, in accordance with the government agreement, Belgium has defended an ambitious position that includes pension funds, turning its back on the ambiguous positions of the previous government? We would really like our country to return to its historic ambitions by joining with the Member States that are working for the most ambitious financial transaction tax possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u45	Minister, at the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency, the tax on financial transactions was placed on the agenda of a meeting in Twenty-Seventh on 24 February 2021. At the same time, contradictory information is circulating about the introduction of such a tax through enhanced cooperation involving ten countries, including Belgium. Beyond words, we need to know what we're talking about. By multiplying the exemptions, the negotiated tax had been reduced to ten, resulting in 99% of transactions escaping it. As a result, the project would have lost its original essence, eventually discouraging some countries. In Belgium, the press reports differences between the parties of the majority. Minister, could you take stock of this issue? What are the prospects for enhanced cooperation in the Ten? What transactions would be covered by this framework? Will these last discussions continue in parallel with the discussions in Twenty-Sevent reinvigorated by the Portuguese Presidency? How did these take place on February 24th? What are the next steps in both processes? What position(s) do you defend in each of them? Finally, do you take initiatives for an ambitious tax that, instead of letting 99% of transactions escape, would instead aim at taxing at least 99% of transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u46	Mr Van Hees, the Portuguese Presidency is currently working on the introduction of a financial transaction tax on the basis of the text of the proposal for a directive of the TTF enhanced cooperation working group of December 2019. The Presidency invited all Member States to a meeting on 24 February so that they could speak on this tax. This shows that non-participating Member States do not wish to join the enhanced cooperation, but remain open to the idea of such a tax as the European Union's own means of financing the "Next Generation EU" recovery plan. The Member States forming part of the enhanced cooperation, with the exception of Austria, reiterated their wish to continue the approach proposed by the Portuguese Presidency. The latter is aimed at a tax on financial transactions which favours the greatest possible harmonisation. Flexibility is guaranteed by opt-in or opt-out possibilities. In addition, discussions focused on a possible revision clause allowing future adaptations. However, these discussions are still ongoing. The rest of these discussions are in the hands of the Portuguese Presidency. Belgium continues to contribute constructively to the discussions but cannot set the agenda for the TTF. As for the pension fund, the proposal for a directive of the TFF enhanced cooperation working party provides for the possibility of opt-in/opt-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u47	I thank the minister for his answer, which I interpret as follows: nothing is achieved, nothing is yet, but things seem to be moving in the right direction. It murmurs in the European corridors that Belgium is one of the countries that has evolved best on this issue. I congratulate you! I invite you not to relax the effort because the stakes are too important. Belgium should not lag behind but should be at the forefront of this financial transaction tax case, with the widest possible scope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u48	I thank the minister. I understand that two parallel processes are under way, since the others, even if they do not want to join in enhanced cooperation, are open to a TTF. I note your reply that Austria no longer wants to be part of this enhanced cooperation. On the question of pension funds, I note that you indicate that there are possibilities for opt-in/opt-out, but we do not know what Belgium's position is on this issue. It's the problem of whether you make a TTF that would be a gruyère or an emmenthal with a lot of holes, more holes than cheese or do you make a real TTF? We hear that there are some differences between the parties of the Vivaldi majority. From your answer, there is not much else to draw, but we will continue to follow this issue carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u49	Madam President, Minister, the robustness of rulings is more important than ever. Tomorrow, by the way, the Chamber will vote on the online publication of rulings. Now, in my view, it is about something even more important, namely: more legal certainty. On 13 January I already questioned you about the fact that more and more tax controllers are more difficult to take into account prior tax decisions, tax rulings, because they do not agree with the way in which the Department interprets the applicable legal provisions. For the sake of legal certainty of the applicants, it is primarily the responsibility of the ruling service to ensure this when delivering a ruling. The tax inspectors should also be careful about this. That is what I am quoting from your reply in January. You are working on legal and organisational adjustments. As the press knows many ways, the text of your changes was widely read last week. According to those texts, the ruling service becomes a new management under the central administration of Finance rather than a fully autonomous service. Thereupon some people immediately crawled into the pen to create unrest. They even mentioned a consultation in a black box with the advisory services of the FOD, to which the BBI does not belong. According to you, that classification would make the rulings more robust and would make it less easy for the BBI to come under attack. The critics argue that this consultation already exists, through the non-public protocol. Thus, according to the critics, this organisational adjustment will not stop the BBI. The debate is therefore already raging in the press, but will of course continue to be held in our Committee on Finance when you submit a bill or legislative amendment to the Chamber. Minister, you may or may not already be able to confirm some of the legal and organisational changes you wish to propose. What progress has been made on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u50	Minister, the newspapers De Tijd and Lecho mention the government's intention to reform the rule following numerous disputes between the Advance Ruling Service (ADS) and the Special Tax Inspectorate (SI), among others on the AllSeas and AB InBev files, one of which apparently exceeds one billion euros. In these cases, the ISI questions the legality of the rules obtained by these companies. According to these same daily newspapers, you and the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, have plans to make the Advance Rulings Service a new direction of the FPS Finance instead of the independent service it currently serves. In addition, when a file is received, the ruling department should first question the FPS Finance Directorate-General within one month. Subsequently, this is the purpose of the operation, the ISI would no longer be able to question the slightest ruling. Is this project that you are carrying, if I have understood it well with the Prime Minister, approved by all of the government's partners? In the cases mentioned (Allseas and AB InBev), did the ruling respect the law, according to you? It's still the central element. In the reform you are defending, if a ruling is illegal, will no tax controller be able to oppose it? In the reform you are defending, who would decide in the event of a non-agreement within the FPS Finances? Would ISI be involved in the process you are proposing? Is it realistic to consider a systematic control of all the rulings that would add to the work of the SDA? Another instance would systematically check all the rulings. Is this realistic especially within a time limit of one month? What happens if the avalal is not given within one month?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to strengthen the employer's initial objective and to avoid disagreements between operational services and the Prior Decisions Service (DVB) in tax matters on the implementation of prior decisions in the future, it is indeed the intention to modernise the current organisational model. The modernisation currently under discussion within the government aims to strengthen cooperation between the DVB and the tax administrations. By strengthening consultations prior to the adoption of the ruling, differences of opinion will be avoided in the future and legal certainty will be guaranteed. This is in no way a matter of undermining the functioning and autonomy of the SDA or the tax conciliation service. Organizational changes are aimed at strengthening management uniqueness. For now, I cannot go into the details of their content or give a timetable. Needless to say, I cannot comment on the issues raised about individual files either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u52	Of course, I agree with the latter. We'll have to do it with unicité de gestion for now. Apparently, it's still in full session. Above all, we want to work on legal certainty for these companies. There's a lot of commotion around. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u53	We are also looking forward with great interest to the texts and the hearing organised on this subject in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u54	Minister, I take note of your answer or your non-response. You tell us what we already know and you say that it is premature to give details for specific questions. We are talking about two large individual files whose amounts are astronomical. I think it is not right, in such cases, to protect you behind professional secrecy, not to intervene and not to give an explanation. When it comes to large companies, it is not the same as a taxpayer, natural person or SME, where there are private issues to preserve. When it comes to large companies, with stakes in billions of euros, I think that transparency is necessary on the part of the government in relation to what the tax authorities decide. Are tax schemes legal or not? These are essential things with a very important budgetary impact. Your non-response is not a guarantee of the transparency that a government can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u55	I confirm that there is absolutely no question of questioning the border fund. I hope that it will be strengthened and sustained. I have also instructed the tax administration to renegotiate the current agreement. Negotiations are expected to start in the coming weeks and I will keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u56	I thank you for confirming what I knew and that some of you peddled in the press relaying false information. I was surprised that this fund is being called into question, which is so important to the Luxembourg municipalities and to all those who house borderers, since it is tax compensation that these administrations pay because the workers do not pay tax in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u57	Madam President, Minister, alternative methods of funding projects such as crowdfunding or crowdlending have never been so popular. Many platforms have emerged in recent years and there is strong evidence that this trend will continue to grow in the coming years. The law of 18 December 2016 organising the recognition and supervision of crowdfunding and laying down various financial provisions has defined a clear framework for their use. Article 5 of the Act specifies the concept of issuer-entrepreneur, whose "main activity consists in carrying out a commercial, craft, liberal, real estate or industrial activity". On the basis of this definition, it seems to me that the municipalities cannot ask for such a fundraiser. However, neither the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralization nor its implementing orders exclude it. With respect to a number of rules, municipalities may in principle resort to any type of borrowing. On the other hand, many municipalities have para-communal bodies, such as local authorities or non-profit organisations, which, in my analysis, could make use of these mechanisms. Minister, do you confirm that municipalities cannot use crowdfunding or crowdlending? Why could they not? If this is prohibited, are you considering opening this possibility by means of a legislative amendment? What about an ordinary government, such as a land and real estate authority, which, for example, is responsible for the management of communal property?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u58	Madam President, Mr Scourneau, the Act of 18 December 2016 applies to the marketing, through websites or any other electronic means, of investment instruments issued by issuer-entrepreneurs. The concept of issuer-entrepreneur is defined by reference to the pursuit of a commercial, craft, liberal, real estate or industrial activity. Municipalities do not normally fall within the scope of the above-mentioned law in so far as their activities are not of a commercial, artisanal, liberal, real estate or industrial nature. However, this does not mean that a municipality is now prohibited from using crowdfunding or crowdlending. If it engages in crowdfunding or crowdlending, it is accepted that it will operate outside the scope of the above-mentioned law and that the investors concerned will not be able to benefit from the tax shelter SME tax benefits. However, I can inform you that from 10 November 2021 the law of 18 December 2016 will be replaced by a new European regulation on crowdfunding services. These regulations do not contain the restrictions provided for by the Act of 18 December 2016. As regards the case of an ordinary authority responsible for the management of the property of the municipality, if it is a legal person separate from the municipality carrying on a commercial, craft, liberal, immovable or industrial activity, it may be described as an issuer-entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u59	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. However, you hope to be able to raise funds in a more flexible way, particularly with regard to land and real estate authorities in the context of development projects, such as investments in renewable energy. I will not hide from you that I am very interested in this project at the communal level. On the basis of your answer, I think I can invest more in this funding channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u60	Together with the Federal Pension Service, we are exploring ways to inform the citizens concerned as specifically as possible about the impact on their income taxes and the possibility to make voluntary advance payments. A general communication and mention of information on the website is an aspect of this, but we are looking for a moment in the application or grant procedure of a transitional allowance or a survivor's pension to inform the citizen in that particular situation. It seems to me that the automatic increase in company withholding tax is not so obvious at first sight. This is because not all surviving spouses have an additional income of their own. If so, the Federal Pension Service has no knowledge of this and cannot be forced to impose more corporate tax. In this context, we must avoid the fact that the automatic increase in the farm levy would have an excessive impact on taxpayers who only benefit from a transitional allowance and therefore do not have an additional professional income. This does not prevent me from wanting to look closely at this together with my administration and examine the possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for addressing my two suggestions. I think that today too few people are aware of the possibility of paying more taxes voluntarily. It is important to inform all those who receive a transitional or survivor's pension from the beginning. I also believe that it would be better, structuralally and in the medium term, for the necessary amount to be automatically withheld. In the case of people who have no other income, it is of course not the intention to include too much. It is therefore necessary to investigate this further so that people do not face unpleasant surprises if they have not paid in advance, as is the case now. It must nevertheless be possible for a person with a transitional or survivor's pension to look at the situation together with the tax administration to see how much income one has and how much taxes one is best in terms of. I think it is good that you want to investigate this further, because I think we really need a structural solution. The current way of working with volunteering already exists, but that is not enough for many people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u62	A representative of the General Administration of Customs and Excise is planned within the CCPD (Centre de Coopération Policière et Douanière) in Luxembourg. The procedure for replacing the person who had served in the past was currently under way. It has been established that there is no legal basis for a genuine secondment in Luxembourg. Previously, such a finding was not a problem, since the staff member concerned was performing his or her duties from the border area. Pending such a legal basis, an alternative solution is sought for an adequate representation of the Belgian customs administration within the CCPD.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You have of course understood that it is important that there be this representation in the police station, which is in charge of fraud and trafficking in particular. It is a topical issue, given all that has been done in the last few days in the field of drugs. If we ever have to work on a legal basis, we can do it. If a customs officer is provided in the cell, this will achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I will not read out my comprehensive question, but I would like to outline briefly the substance. Where does our budget go? We know that we are not just deciding on this, that we are on a European playing field and that Europe is putting forward a number of accounting and other rules there. At the same time, we know that these rules make it a little difficult for us to make productive investments, especially because we are small. After all, a large Member State within the European Union has a lot of money to go along with and can do anything, while being a smaller Member State is more difficult because it has a number of structural expenditures. A number of interviews have been conducted and newspaper articles have been published, in which you yourself say that you would like an arrangement whereby more productive investment at European level would be possible. However, it is not quite clear exactly how that would go. So the essence of my question is what you are pointing your arrows at. The fundamental question is whether this is about amending the Maastricht Treaty. A treaty amendment would mean that it would have to be approved in all Member States. Or is it rather an ambition to look at how the Stability and Growth Pact is being adapted? Or is it rather an administrative adjustment, where we would look at Eurostat to adjust the accounting measures, something that the Flemish government has already asked for in the past? There was a discussion on this with then Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, a dossier that you will know. What are you pointing the arrow at? We read in L'Echo that you would have had a number of contacts with other Member States. It would be interesting to know where alliances are sought. Which Member States are concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u65	Madam President, Minister, a stimulating European budgetary policy is, of course, on the agenda. As Mr Loones pointed out, according to the Planbureau's latest multi-annual projection, the Belgian debt ratio is up to 122 % by 2026. On a webinar for the Belgian Finance Center, you argued for a higher tolerance of European budgetary rules in relation to productive investment. I already have a few parliamentary miles on the counter, not as a Member of Parliament but as a parliamentary representative in the Flemish Parliament. I naturally followed the debates and discussions with former Prime Minister Peeters and also Prime Minister Bourgeois at that time. We are, of course, talking about the Oosterweel issue and the question of productive investment and the European accounting rules of Eurostat. However, I would also like to refer to 2 March 2021, when you apparently had a conversation with Commissioner Gentiloni. During this discussion, the European Union's budgetary policy would also have been discussed. I assume that the issue of productive investment has also been addressed. Do you intend, as Mr Loones asked, to amend the Stability and Growth Pact or rather Eurostat's accounting rules? What are the results of your discussion on the topic? Is there support from other Member States for your approach, which is greater flexibility in terms of investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u66	The covid pandemic delayed the debate on the so-called Six Pack and Two Pack, which should normally be evaluated last year. The European Commission announced in its communication on 3 March that the discussion will resume "once the recovery takes hold." It is therefore expected that this evaluation and discussion will not take place until the second part of this year. I also received this signal during my discussion with Commissioner Gentiloni, to whom Mr Ravyts also refers. In this discussion, I would like to highlight the important investment gap mainly in the area of public investment in recent years. You will not be surprised that Belgium is currently one of the least investing European countries. Our investment rate is below the European average. The covid pandemic has made this gap even greater and has also made the state of public finances even worse due to the many support measures. The budgetary space for many countries, including Belgium, has therefore become even smaller. The application of the existing rules may prevent Belgium from making significant productive investments. Non-implementation of such investments can have an impact on economic recovery, potential growth and ultimately on future growth. In its recent communication of 3 March, the European Commission also stressed the importance of investment and growth in the relay. Clearly lessons have been learned from past experience after the debt crisis. We do not want to fall back into a purely savings-based recovery, the so-called austerity approach. The sustainability of debt in the medium term is, of course, crucial, but we must also, of course, pay sufficient attention to important and forward-looking productive investments. During my discussion with Commissioner Gentiloni, that was also discussed and I could also see that he clearly welcomes this approach. As the debate is taking place today, it does not seem necessary to amend the Treaty immediately. A treaty change would also take a lot of time. I believe that we should not now look in the medium term, but in the short term look for viable solutions. Nor is it intended to change the Eurostat rules themselves. Some other interesting ideas are currently on the table. For example, it is a question of changing the existing rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, as Mr Loones pointed out, in order to take into account productive investments in the future when determining the budgetary effort that a Member State is making or has made. In this respect, it is important for me to ensure the sustainability of public finances in the medium term. I also have the answer to Mrs Jadin's question. When I was talking about "good" and "bad" debts, I understood above all that it is necessary to avoid financing current expenditure by issuing debt. On the other hand, it is acceptable to finance productive expenditure, such as productive investment, by issuing debt. This type of expenditure is more effective and has a positive effect on economic recovery, potential growth and ultimately economic growth. Moreover, these investments have a positive effect on the sustainability of public finances in the medium and long term, to which I have already referred. In the past, our country has also called for an adjustment of the access criteria to the investment clause so that Member States can make easier use of it. This has been mentioned several times by the previous government to the European Commission. At present, these criteria are so restrictive that only two Member States made effective use of them. An alternative proposal for a simpler budgetary framework proposed by the European Council in October concerns the application of a single expenditure rule and a single medium-term debt indicator. The current economic reality makes an adjustment of the budgetary rules all the more urgent, although I am of course aware that there are different views within Europe on this issue and that it will certainly not be a simple exercise. I am, of course, consulting the Commission and my colleagues on this issue on an informal basis in order to see what is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u67	Minister, you said twice that you aim to ensure the sustainability of debt and deficits in the medium term, but I naturally read that as'medium and long term'. I see your agreement to that. I assume that you do not want the long-term sustainability of the debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u68	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u69	I specifically ask you to clarify this. I see you nodding. You mean, of course, "the shelf life."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u71	(...) It is not every hour, but also tomorrow and the day after. That was a technical point. Secondly, I hear that you are not aiming for a treaty change but rather for the continuation of the questions already raised by the previous government? I think that's interesting. In addition, you should make a comment about a kind of double accounting for investments. That system seems interesting to me, but it will require additional efforts. If you aim effectively in the short term, I fear that an adjustment to the Stability and Growth Pact will not really be possible in the short term. The adjustment of Eurostat's accounting rules could perhaps be speeded up. I would urge you not to wipe that piste off the table too quickly. Finally, you did not answer the question of which countries are being consulted on this dossier. This may become clear in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the ideas you have put forward. You call that feasible solutions, rather changes to the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. As the honourable Member points out, you are in the tradition of talking from the previous legislature. Of course, I hope, perhaps together with you, that your efforts will bear fruit, because it is a rather important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u73	That is a wide-ranging question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u74	Madam President, the title of the question is broad, but the question is very specific. When I couldn't sleep, I reread the coalition agreement. I was interested in an interesting passage, in particular, and I quote: 'We are examining the possibility of merging a number of institutions'. It concerns the study and information centre of the National Bank, the Federal Planning Office and the study service of the CRB. I couldn't sleep because I was wondering who would do that? Which minister is responsible for this matter? After all, these institutions receive a number of subsidies which then come from Economy and there are a number of issues that are previously with you or with Mr De Bleeker. I hope you can spare me more sleepless nights. Can you clarify who is competent within the government to make this exercise of thought? Is that you or is that another excellency I would like to inflict upon you? Secondly, has this exercise already begun?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Loones. When it comes to your sleep, of course, I make every effort to ensure that it is as optimal as possible. As you yourself have said, it is true that the various public institutions do not belong to one and the same minister. The task to which you refer will therefore have to be carried out together with my colleagues involved. The plan of action will have to be drawn up in a common position. The work of the section 7 "Operational Excellence" in the field of the federal study services of the previous government's redesign programme will initially be used as a source of inspiration. As far as your third question is concerned, but I do not think you have said it, it is not the intention to anticipate the conclusions of that study at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u76	Thank you, Minister. I hope that the ministers will agree on who will lead this project. It is often the case that everyone has everything to do, but if there are no clear agreements, these files often remain. On this point, I would like to call for the discussion to be held within the government. In the meantime, I'll count some sheep.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u77	Mr Minister, at the beginning of the covid crisis, it was decided, under the impetus of the Socialist Group, to reduce the temporary unemployment discount to 15%. We would have preferred this discount to be released in order to avoid a possible "tax trap", i.e. that the tax should only be deferred at the time of the warning-extract. This was not followed by the majority of the time. Therefore, there is a great risk that some of the beneficiaries of this temporary unemployment will have to pay additional tax. Indeed, the allowances received in 2020 will increase the taxable income of these taxpayers, which could lead to a higher tax burden than the 15% already levied. For us, this situation is not acceptable since these recipients have already gone through or are still going through a difficult financial period. A few weeks ago, your firm confirmed in the press that the subject was being debated within the government. Minister, where are you on this file? When are you going to make the necessary decisions, i.e. to make this discount free, as is the case for the independents benefiting from the bridge right? Could you give me the number of people who may have to pay more tax when they receive their snippet warning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u78	Minister, in 2020, on average, half a million workers are temporarily unemployed every month. In April 2020, a maximum of 1.2 million temporary unemployed people were reached. In theory, the replacement rate for temporary unemployment benefits corresponds to 70 per cent of gross wages, but with a ceiling, which means that many people are still below 70 per cent. The issue of gross income is added to the question of taxation in order to arrive at net income. As of May 2020, the occupational discount has been reduced to 15%, but to date no provision has been made in relation to the calculation of the final tax. What is the use of reducing a discount if it is to recover the money afterwards? Especially as these allowances will be added to the taxable income of the taxpayers concerned. There are many problems: whether they will have to pay a tax supplement, the question of gross wages and the question of final net wages, knowing that imposing unemployment benefits is not entirely logical. The FGTB made a request to the government that the occupational discount chosen be released to apply the same way as on the bridge law, which is somewhat the unemployment of the self-employed, which is imposed separately. It would also be a matter of imposing unemployment benefits separately. Your cabinet explained to the daily LeSoir that the subject was under debate in the government and that it hoped that it could be discussed in the Council of Ministers on 12 February. Do you support, Minister, the FGTB's request on this point? Do you accept that it is abnormal that unemployment benefits should not be taxed separately, whereas the bridge right benefits from this separate taxation? I mean, what's the status of this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u79	My colleague, indeed, no decision has been taken within the government with regard to the possible release from employment of temporary unemployment. The occupational discount rate was reduced from 26.75 % in May 2020 to 15 % in the case of temporary unemployment benefits. Between May and December 2020, 1.16 million taxpayers received temporary unemployment benefits. It is therefore possible that these taxpayers will be faced with tax supplements when they register their return, as a result of the decrease in the professional discount rate. However, it should be stressed that not all taxpayers concerned pay additional tax to the PPI when applying the measures taken at the level of the professional discount. In other words, this measure is neutral in terms of overall taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u80	Madam President, Minister, I hear your answers very well. I repeat that our insistence is really to arrive as quickly as possible at a solution that will prevent these workers from having to pay taxes when they are going through a particularly difficult period. It is true that, in the logic of the system, the discount is a tax deposit. The aim was to give them more clarity at the time when the decision was taken, which had indeed been voted by a very large majority. But at the same time, Minister, we are now asking for a correction that would allow the tax effect to be neutralized. I'll come back to you, because I'll be very attentive to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u81	Minister, you yourself recognize that it is possible that some of the more than a million taxpayers who paid 15% discount may have a tax supplement. On the one hand, you recognize the problem; on the other hand, you tell us that no decision is taken at the government level. We're already in March. These are 2020 revenues. Tax returns are for June 2021. Of course, time is passing and we have the impression that the government has decided not to decide; or, in any case, that there are differences that mean that there will be no decision. This is worrying for all the people involved. It is also abnormal because it creates discrimination between the self-employed who, rightly, are taxed separately on bridge law, and temporary unemployed workers who are not going to benefit from separate taxation. This discrimination is not justified or justifiable in my view. I'm worried about your lack of progress in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u82	My question concerns a law that we passed a few weeks ago concerning the dematerialisation of the relationships between the FPS Finance and the private sector and the legal entities. That law contains an article which provides that in future the deadline for the submission of legal and corporate income tax is to be fixed on the last day of the seventh month following the end of the financial year. Thus, if the financial year is closed on 31 December, as is often the case, the legal person's tax will have to be lodged by the end of July at the latest. In itself, this uniformity and clarity is a good thing. The declaration must be made via Biztax. Is everything ready to work that way? Can you give us an update? Is there any possibility of granting a postponement? If not, is it clear that the administration, unlike in the past, will no longer communicate on its own deadlines? In short, can we assume that the seven-month deadline really is a deadline? This will allow the many legal entities subject to the legal person tax to align themselves with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u83	As soon as the tax return for the tax year 2021 can be filed via Biztax, this will be communicated. By the way, the opening date of Biztax is the same as for corporation tax and non-residents/corporations. The administrator-general may grant a general deferment, both for corporation tax and for legal and non-resident tax. Once the decision has been taken, this will also be the subject of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Now that there really is a uniform and clear legal regime, the declaration of the legal person's tax must be made by the seventh month at the latest, which is quite similar to the submission of the annual accounts, I just hope that it will be adhered to and that the communicated date, namely the opening date of Biztax, will be sufficiently well within that period. For example, clear communication is possible and the deadline can also be respected. This would certainly improve clarity with regard to all those legal entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u85	Minister, I come back to you following a parliamentary question that you answered earlier. When I read your answer, I'd like to go into the matter. As you know, the covid-19 health crisis has forced a large number of workers to change their habits. Telework has sometimes been mandatory and sometimes strongly recommended. Currently, and for many weeks now, workers who can do so are asked to be on telework. It's an obligation. I would like to come back with you to the somewhat atypical cases that may arise. For example, I would like to submit to you the case of a worker living in Brussels who usually goes, outside a period of covid-19, several days a week to France. As you know, Brussels-Paris connections are very fast. This taxpayer is subject to the usual tax system, namely to be taxed in France and not in Belgium. It's the famous 183-day rule. The result of the pandemic was that the worker remained at his home in Brussels in telework. Do you confirm that nothing changes for this Brussels worker who is usually taxed in France and will then be taxed in France? Does not the fact of no longer travelling in France lead to double taxation in Belgium and France?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u86	Thank you, Minister. On the basis of the information mentioned in the question, it is not possible to formulate a clear and complete answer to your question. As this is a specific case, I recommend that the person in question contact the tax administration in order to obtain a complete and clear picture of his or her tax situation. The administration will be happy to help him with his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u87	Minister, this is not a specific case, it is a theoretical case. I have taken the example of a person who usually works beyond 183 days in France while residing in Belgium and who is therefore taxed in France, but who, due to the covid-19, is on telework. She spends more days in Belgium than in France, even if her employer is in France. My question is therefore not specific, it is general. I wanted to take a case from school. I am therefore not satisfied, minister. If I still have to raise the abstraction level of the question to get my answers, I will. I understand that I will have to repeat a more abstract question this time in order to have a tax, legal answer. Does telework change the tax situation of a worker residing in Belgium and working in France because he will no longer work in France beyond 183 days, but spends more time working in Belgium because of telework? In short, does telework change the taxpayer's tax situation? That was my question, minister. I am disappointed that I did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u88	Mr Laaouej, I will ask one of my colleagues to contact you in order to clarify the question and give you the exact answer. If I refer to the question you tabled, I do not think we have the opportunity to answer you correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u89	I remain at your disposal, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u90	This question comes back regularly in corona times. This may also have to do with Monsieur Laaouej's question. So we are talking about frontier workers, the people working in neighbouring countries, but the corona measures have to work at home for several days. In this way, they are at risk of entering different tax systems. This has been resolved well with our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, Germany, France and Luxembourg, by concluding agreements and ensuring that the days worked at home, in Belgium, rather than at the place of employment abroad, are not counted as working abroad. Those agreements have been concluded and run until 31 March 2021. That date is approaching. Has any agreement been reached on an extension of that deadline, so that frontier workers are reassured? If that is the case, has the content of the various agreements remained the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u91	Thank you very much for this very important question. We have already signed an extension agreement with the Netherlands on 5 March until 30 June. Luxembourg also agreed on the principle of extension, including until 30 June 2021. Discussions have begun with the other two neighbouring countries, Germany and France. The content of the agreement with the Netherlands remains unchanged. It is also our intention and expectation that the content of the other agreements will not change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u92	Thank you for the very clear answer. This response and the extension of the treaties with the Netherlands and Luxembourg and the forthcoming agreements with Germany and France are certainly good news for frontier workers. Then they should not worry about it in these very special times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u93	Madam President, Minister, since 2019, the mobility budget allows employees who benefit from a company car to opt for more environmentally friendly alternatives. Unfortunately, this possibility is still too little known. However, following the questioning of a citizen, I was able to note that the web page intended to promote this mechanism and to answer the legitimate questions that the public might have about it probably does not contribute to the enhancement of the system. Indeed, when you read the site, you realize that it is extremely tedious, and that it is very difficult to quickly locate the information you are looking for. I know this is a shared responsibility since the FPS Finance manages this site jointly with the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the FPS Social Security and the National Office of Social Security (ONSS). I believe, however, that this is also a reflection of a system which is still too unreadable and which should be simplified. While the government agreement provides for "a framework for workers who do not have a company car to receive a mobility budget from their employer", improving communication tools must be part of the reflection more than ever before. Minister, do you know the web address? Have you been able to visit it and what is your perception of this site? What solutions do you recommend to improve digital communication on this important issue of the mobility budget? Finally, could you take stock of the implementation of the extension of the mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u94	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, one in five Belgian servants has a company car today. This is 5% more than in 2019 and a quarter more than five years ago. These are figures that were recently released by the HR company Acerta. They have examined the wage data of employees of 40,000 Belgian companies. The increase in the number of employees with a company car is therefore continuing despite corona, with many people working at home. The car has been redundant during the Corona period for a lot of commuting, but this data shows that it is being used more and more as a wage instrument, while of course there is also an important impact on mobility. Indeed, in direct terms, car use is being stimulated in this way, which we as a society cannot sustain and must try to reverse from the point of view of policy. We have worked out the mobility budget for this, as the previous speaker said. Two years ago, the Chamber passed this law. However, it has to be noted that despite growing interest, the mobility budget is becoming very slowly established. According to figures from SD Worx, another HR company, at the end of 2020 barely 11 out of 100,000 employees exchanged their right to a company car for a mobility budget. This is 0.011 % Perhaps the percentage is a little higher by now, but it is still relatively limited. Mr Ben Acour already referred to the mobility budget website, which contains a lot of information - the site may not always be easy to find - but also a lot of problems facing employers or companies who want to introduce the mobility budget, and the answers to them. We can also learn from this, in particular what obstacles businesses experience in introducing a mobility budget. On the basis of these problems, we have drawn up a number of proposals to make the mobility budget more accessible and more accessible to businesses. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. The figures of the social secretariats give only a partial picture of the success of the mobility budget. Can you give a better view of the use of the mobility budget so far? How do you evaluate the mobility budget as an alternative to the company car, two years after the introduction of the law? Do you consider it appropriate to adjust the mobility budget in the relatively short term? You may know the changes we are proposing. Are you fond of them and would you like to get to work on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u95	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, I know the website budgetmobilite.be, which seems to me to offer a complete and accurate view of the various facets of the mobility budget. The FAQ is the result of many questions asked about it. That said, the management of this site falls within the competence of my colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, in charge of Employment. In any case, based on this FAQ, one can observe that the mobility budget is very interesting. I am therefore not completely your argument that it is because of the communication that this budget is rarely used. On the other hand, I agree with you that this is a complex system – as the many questions on the web page show. However, on the basis of the FAQ, we can distil the proposals necessary to simplify and strengthen this system. If we combine it with good communication, as you suggest in your question, I believe that we can make this budget a success. Finally, you refer to the passage of the government agreement which states that it is also necessary to consider the allocation of a mobility budget to employees who are not entitled to a function car. This question is still under consideration, in order to know how this point can be carried out. It is therefore premature to go into the details on this subject. Mr Van den Bergh, unfortunately there are no figures available for your questions. The possibility of simplifying the mobility budget system, as I have just said to Mr Ben Accour, is currently being studied within the government in order to increase access to the concept of the system. The possibility of extending the system to workers without a company car and its consequences should be further organised by my administration, in conjunction with the administration responsible for the social aspect of such a reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do not make a cause-and-effect link, or a direct causal link between the quality of the website, which is very comprehensive – it is exhaustive – and its low use. This is the least we can say: 0.15% of employees who are entitled to a company car use the mobility budget. It's extremely weak. However, I still invite a reflection on communication. When you look at the home page of the site, there are 157 questions, with 157 links, that interested citizens, businesses or workers could ask about this mechanism. This makes reading this site too tedious, in my opinion, to attract interest. This even discourages the few people who have expressed an interest in the subject. I think it would be worth thinking about it, quite simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u97	Minister, I understand that we will have to wait until mid 2021 for the figures. What we can learn from the data from the website, to which Mr Ben Achor referred, is that certain obstacles and a certain complexity are identified. If we can respond to this with a number of simplifications and by lowering certain thresholds, I am convinced that we can make a success of the mobility budget. I am thinking, for example, of the calculation of the TCO, the value that the mobility budget may have, or of the waiting period, which is still registered today and which is still an important obstacle to the introduction of a mobility budget and the like. If we can respond to these points with a change in the law, then we can make a real success of the mobility budget. I believe that very strongly, and I look forward to the changes you have announced, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u98	Minister, at the end of 2020, a large-scale tobacco shop operation in downtown Tournai by the police services of the police zone of Tournaisis and several partners from the emergency zone of Wallonia Picarde, the National Employment Office (ONEM), the National Institute of Social Insurance for Self-Employed Workers (INASTI), the National Social Security Office (ONSS), the FPS Finances and the FPS Santé revealed a large number of shortcomings. Infringements found relate to accounting, price display, product labelling and origin, or the sale of products without records in French. It should be noted that safety and safety deficiencies have been observed: the absence of lighting blocks, fire detectors, operating certificates, electrical inspection certificates, the presence of uncontrolled fire extinguishers or compartments in the building. The presence of non-compliant dwellings was also suspected by the inspectors. In total, the fines distributed amount to 24,000 euros. This operation echoes that carried out jointly by some ten police officers and delegates from the Walloon Region, ONSS, the control of social laws, ONEM, customs, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and the SPF Santé in November 2020 in Borinage or that carried out in March 2020 in various Brussels municipalities by customs and local police in Brussels-Midi and Brussels-West, which revealed the existence of numerous offences relating to alcohol, tobacco, chicha tobacco and non-alcoholic beverages. What is your view on this? Can we receive an overview of such operations in Belgium in 2020? The Belgian border territories of France are particularly exposed to the risks associated with the above offences, since these territories have certain advantages for tobacco shop operators. Are specific initiatives generally envisaged in Belgium and, more specifically, in the territories I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u99	Dear colleague, the General Administration of Customs and Excise carries out regular checks in night stores and tobacco shops. These controls often reveal infringements of excise legislation on alcoholic, non-alcoholic beverages and manufactured tobacco. Infringements typically found are the sale of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages purchased in France and Luxembourg without having been declared in Belgium and therefore without Belgian excise duties being paid. As for manufactured tobacco and mainly chicha tobacco, it is often found that they do not have Belgian tax signs. These controls are organized either by the General Administration of Customs and Excise on its own initiative or at the request of other bodies such as the police, ONSS or the AFSCA. In such cases, each body receives clear instructions and identifies offences according to its own jurisdiction. Regular checks are carried out throughout the country at these points of sale in order to meet the objectives set out in the National Operational Plan of the General Administration of Customs and Excise. New initiatives of operations coordinated or specific to the General Administration of Customs and Excise are also planned in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u100	I thank the minister for his response. I will come back with a written question for the statistics produced in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u101	Minister, the government agreement makes OECD negotiations on the taxation of multinationals a priority. I have already had the opportunity to welcome this development, which contrasts with the previous government's attitude, as in the case of the tax on financial transactions. It is with satisfaction that I have become aware of what is to be interpreted as an inflection with regard to the position of the Trump administration. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen announced this Friday, February 26, at a meeting of G20 Finance Ministers that the United States was abandoning its demand for the so-called "safe harp" provision, which would have given American companies the opportunity to participate in the new tax system or not. This proposal, introduced at the end of 2019 by the former Finance Minister, had in fact led to the freezing of discussions. Following the statements made by Mrs Yellen, the French and German Finance Ministers, Bruno Le Maire and Olaf Scholz, both welcomed this important step forward and felt that an agreement could be reached quickly, the first saying that it was even "at hand" by the summer, the second referring to "the end of the summer". Whatever happens, we are in a short-term perspective. According to the OECD, a 12.5% tax on digital and consumer enterprises would raise between $5 billion and $12 billion a year worldwide, and even between $42 billion and $70 billion if extended to all multinationals. Minister, in the light of this exciting new political situation, could you give us an update on the current talks at the OECD? Do you share the optimism shown by your French and German counterparts about a positive short-term outcome? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u102	Since the beginning of the year, negotiations on the reform of international tax rules have been actively continuing within the OECD. The results of the public consultation on the two pillars as detailed in the management plan were discussed in January. Since February, technical discussions have now continued in the working groups and an ad hoc task force. In the face of the fiscal challenges posed by the digitalisation of the economy, our country is fundamentally in favour of a multilateral response. The change in the position of the United States on the Safe Harbour approach to Pillar I is quite encouraging and offers hope for an agreement in principle by the beginning of July. However, other technical issues remain to be resolved. Caution therefore requires that no hasty conclusions be drawn as to the outcome of the discussions. In any event, and as you rightly point out, the government agreement makes this international tax reform a priority. Belgium will therefore continue to play a constructive and active role in this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u103	Thank you for that answer, rather cautious. We'll see how things evolve. In any case, there is still a release at the level of a major partner in this type of agreement. I hope that Belgium will be able to participate in the right momentum that will lead us to a proposal for a mechanism that is as ambitious as possible – as for the TTF – especially with regard to multinationals and digital giants. It makes sense, especially in times running.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u104	Madam President, Minister, I come back to you for the third time, I think, under the pension scheme for former military collaborators. As you recommended when I questioned you last month, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also in charge of European affairs, about the procedure initiated by the Dutch authorities to the tax authorities on the basis of Article 4(1) of the European Union Administrative Assistance Act. As a reminder, the Netherlands has requested to receive the first and last names, addresses, dates of birth and the amount of the annual benefits of persons living in the Netherlands who are beneficiaries of benefits under the Federal Pensions Act. On the basis of this request, Germany provided the requested information. Your colleague from Foreign Affairs, Mrs Wilmès, saw no difficulty in your department being able to initiate this procedure as well. Therefore, Mr Minister in the light of these new elements and following the response of your colleague from Foreign Affairs, will you finally take steps using the above-mentioned references to obtain the necessary information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u105	Madam President, my administration will now contact the Dutch tax administration to determine how the Netherlands has given concrete form to the request to which you are referring. After examination by my administration, it appears that the various double taxation agreements are not identical as regards the tax relevance of the information to be requested. In the Belgian-German Double Taxation Convention, there seems to be no legal basis for requesting the tax information in question. These pensions are not subject to tax conditions in Belgium, although this seems to be the case under the double taxation agreement between Germany and the Netherlands. In order to clarify this issue in advance, it is important to consult first with our northern neighbours. To be complete, I would like to inform you that the double taxation agreement with Germany does not allow the use of tax information exchanged for purposes other than taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u106	Madam President, Minister, I confess to you not only my great astonishment, my annoyance, but also my incomprehension. I do not understand why you are so cautious, when the last time you told me that on the basis of the evidence I provided you, you were quite open to asking the questions to Germany, provided that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not object. The Minister for Foreign Affairs came out of the full response of her collaborators to tell us in committee that she would not oppose it because it was a question of conscience and duty of memory for her. So either this duty of memory is shared by the whole government, or I will consider that you are taking refuge behind the last legal arguments in order not to demonstrate this duty of memory and I would really be marri but it would be the victims of the Nazi regime who will judge then and more only the MP Christophe Lacroix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u107	Minister, on February 12, the government decided to implement a pilot spending review project on waivers of professional discount payments. The aim is to examine whether these exemptions are actually achieving their objective and whether it could not be achieved more effectively in another way. A priori, we can be pleased with this initiative because the exemptions from occupational prepayments – this "legal theft" of workers' taxes by their employer – have continued to increase since the beginning of the 2000s. They stood at $3.4 billion in 2019 and are expected to reach $4.5 billion by 2024. However, in order to carry out the exercise, it would be necessary to know what the purpose of these exemptions is. However, they have been introduced as a matter of urgency by programme laws which are limited to formulating general objectives which are not set out in more specific objectives linked to quantified targets and deadlines. As the Court of Auditors pointed out: "This situation does not make it possible to assess this fiscal policy, particularly on the basis of performance indicators used to measure its effects". In its March 2019 report, the Commission recommended assigning specific, concrete and measurable objectives to exemptions. The government has not implemented these recommendations: a new exemption from payment of the occupational allowance for the training of workers has been introduced as a matter of urgency through the programme law of 20 December 2020. Minister, do you intend to implement the recommendations of the Court of Auditors? Do you not think that it would have been better to implement these recommendations before launching the pilot spending review project? Can you explain the methodology of this pilot project? Which administrations will be involved in this project? What is the status of the project? What criteria will be used to determine whether the professional discount waivers are achieving their objectives, knowing that so far no specific, concrete and measurable objectives have been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u108	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I have asked my administration to analyse the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and to make concrete proposals to respond to them. I expect to receive the first results of this study in the near future. The purpose of the spending review is to verify the relevance, efficiency and effectiveness of the expenditure concerned and to list the different options for reform and/or possible savings. The results, together with the proposals of the administration, will be taken up together in the context of a package of measures to be discussed within the government. The pilot project focuses, first, on the tax expenditure of the various measures listed as, for example, the benefits by sector (SMEs, large enterprises, etc.).). Second, the effectiveness and efficiency of the most important measures are examined. Ideally, the economic effects of the occupational discount exemption should be studied theoretically and a series of work hypotheses should be tested for Belgium. Finally, a comparison could possibly be made with neighbouring countries. Federal Public Services involved are FPS Finance and FPS Strategy and Support. Within the FPS Finances, the study itself is carried out by the Tax Policy Branch of the Study Service. The Strategy and Support FPS plays a coordinating role. The existing working group is composed of FPS Finance and Strategy and Support FPS collaborators. The project has officially started, following the approval of the terms of reference by the Council of Ministers. The composition of the various measures and the collection of relevant data have begun. The current phase of the study involves inviting experts, including the Court of Auditors and the Federal Bureau of Planning, to shed light on and report on the results of their research in this area. As the Court of Auditors has rightly pointed out, the legislator has not formulated any clear objectives for the support measures. This complicates, in a way, the formulation of research questions. Nevertheless, two general objectives can be studied: support for employment and improvement of Belgium's competitive position on the international stage. In the field of research and development, support for the knowledge economy can be seen as a complementary objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u109	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will wait, since you have asked your administration to analyse the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. When you give Belgium's employment and competitive position as the objectives of these optimisations, this is precisely what the Court of Auditors criticises, which sees it as very general objectives, the impact of which cannot be measured. In this case, this measure costs a great deal from a budgetary point of view and benefits only employers. I would like to give you examples other than the competitive position. If we take, for example, occupational discount exemptions on break work and night work, we realize that we are subsidising it, while it seriously harms the health of workers. In short, public health considerations should also be taken into account when evaluating this exemption. It is therefore not only a question of examining the impact on public finances, employment or competitive position, but also on the health of workers, which is an important problem – especially at this time of coronavirus. In conclusion, Minister, I invite you to broaden the scope of your analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u110	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55015019C and No. Mr Joy Donné's 55015020C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u111	Madam President, Minister, Belgium is the world's fourth largest exporter of plastic waste. Nearly half a million tonnes in 2019 pass mainly through the port of Antwerp. Antwerp is also a hub for illegal trafficking in plastic waste. In principle, highly polluted synthetic waste can no longer be sent to Asia. To circumvent the rule, the most common technique is to fill the first two rows of the container with "clean" plastic waste while all the dirt rests behind. According to an Interpol report, these criminal activities are on the rise. Traffickers choose the port of Antwerp because there are fewer controls than elsewhere. The newspaper De Tijd reveals that only 15 to 20 per cent of illegal traffic can be intercepted by controls. Services are to the maximum of their capacity. There are not enough staff; they do with the means of the edge. As in many other cases, therefore, the negative effect of the reductions in FPS finance staff applied by previous governments is seen here. A policy that is unfortunately being pursued by the current government. Minister, do you intend to strengthen customs services at the port of Antwerp? If so, how many customs officers were there at the port of Antwerp at the end of 2020 and how many additional officers are you planning for the years 2021 to 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u112	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, as I made clear in my policy statement, a reduction in control capacity is not envisaged, given the principle of replacing one for one of the control functions. However, in addition to the necessary control capacity, effective international cooperation is needed against illegal traffic in waste. Gains in the effectiveness of this fight can only be achieved through well-functioning international cooperation, such as the World Customs Organisation's DEMETER project, and through close cooperation with OLAF for a European customs approach. At the end of 2020, the general administration of customs and excise duties had 401 members working in the port of Antwerp. These are mainly control teams, as the other services of Antwerp management are not included. This year, thirteen recruitments have already taken place for the Antwerp leadership – nine of which specifically concern the port of Antwerp. On the basis of the current staff plan, twenty-four recruitments are still planned for the entire management of Antwerp. For the future, staff plans have not yet been approved. It is therefore impossible for me to provide you with more precise figures on future recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answer. In your policy briefing, I had already noted that no staff reductions were planned. I was asking you today about an increase in staff, not about a status quo. I am pleased to note that you have already made some recruitments. Of course, 13 out of 401, it's not huge, but it's going in the right direction. International cooperation is of course essential, but it also plays a role for partners. But we see that traffickers choose the port of Antwerp because there is less control than elsewhere. In short, international cooperation is good, but it is not enough in the absence of controllers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u114	Minister, the UBO register came into force a long time ago. Following a KB of September last year, all service documents, evidence documents, must now be uploaded into the register to show who the final beneficiaries are. In an earlier answer to a parliamentary question, you have already indicated what these documents can be with probative force, such as the statutes, the stock register and so on. In the context of user-friendliness and the only once principle, it is of course useful that certain documents would prefer to be added automatically, at least without much extra work for those who are obliged to do so. Can you clarify whether steps are being taken to automatically charge certain documents in the system under the only once principle? If so, which ones are they? What's the timing of that? The upload of the documents for existing legal entities should take place before 30 April 2021. Is that still a hard deadline or are there going to be votes to postpone that deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u115	The UBO register is the implementation of international directives which are drawn up in such a way that Belgium fulfils its international obligations. Within this framework, steps have been taken to enable the automatic uploading of documents to the UBO register. In concrete terms, IT developments are currently underway in order to allow, as far as possible, the extraction of supporting documents that have already been published in the Belgian Official Journal. Legal representatives will have to confirm that these documents still reflect reality. In addition, it examines how electronic registers, as provided for in the relevant articles of the Code of Companies and Associations, can be considered as authentic sources subject to compliance with the conditions laid down in the Implementing Decision. These developments do not currently affect the timing envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u116	Minister, it is indeed very important to work on automatic links, as far as possible, and to see how certain registers can be identified as authentic sources. I know that this is, of course, particularly the case with companies, but I would like to take this opportunity once again to make it clear that many documents are automatically available in relation to other legal entities, such as non-profit organisations, foundations and non-profit organisations, namely the publications in the Belgian Official Journal. We need to work to get an automatic coupling or confirmation on this. This could, in any case, bring great added value in the field for those legal entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u117	Minister, as you have already pointed out, the UBO register is an international one. It is intended that we in our country should enter the benefit of legal persons in our national register. This should also be linked to the European Central Platform, which in turn is linked to the European e-Justice Platform. All these different platforms need to speak to each other and all have certain technical requirements and content. From the European Union there is the implementing regulation of 1 March this year to coordinate this. Does the Belgian UBO register already meet the technical requirements listed therein? That's it, that's it. If not, should certain adjustments be made? So what's the timeline for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u118	The Belgian UBO registry complies with the technical specifications and other additional requirements that ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of the interconnection of the national UBO registers through the European Central Platform. For example, a data protection impact analysis was carried out in accordance with Article 35 of Regulation 2016/679 and validated by the FPS Finance Officer on 2 March 2021. In addition, the specifications relating to the information to be exchanged concerning the entities and beneficial owners are already available within the platform of the Belgian UBO register.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u119	Thank you for your answer. The homework is done nicely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u120	Mr Minister, this question concerns the valuation, in particular Article 341 of the WIB, which states that a statement may be made on the basis of signs and Indians. This means, for example, that a comparison is made between this year's revenue and last year's revenue. There is a very recent judgment of the Court of Cassation of 29 January 2021 which states that the asset position does not qualify as a sign or indicator at any time within a taxable period. Only the increase in capital within the taxable period of which the administration has provided proof can serve this purpose. In this context, I would like to ask what is the result of this judgment of the Court of Cassation? Did you instruct the administration to investigate the consequences of this? If so, is this already a result and can you comment on whether a possible amendment of Article 341 is taking place in the fight against money laundering and other matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u121	Thank you, Madam President. My administration takes note of the judgment in cassation of 29 January 2021. However, there are other court cases pending before the Court of Cassation. My administration awaits these statements before finalising an analysis of whether an amendment to Article 341 of the WIB 92 is effectively necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u122	Thank you, Minister. I'll wait with you for that analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u123	Madam President, Minister, it is important, in the context of a number of issues that have been raised by the press, that the fight against money laundering continues, both repressive and preventive. We also have a lot of legislation for this fight and a strong legal framework. Of course, this must also be implemented on the ground. If we are to fight this battle with results on the ground, cooperation is the fashion word and the direction in which we must evolve. In this context, I would like to ask the following in view of what is happening in the Netherlands with the tax authorities. That's where the FIOD, the Tax Intelligence and Investigation Service, is active. There is integrated work and knowledge exchange in different areas. There are also a lot of specialised services in the Netherlands in cyber, anti-corruption and forensic matters and the IT-Team. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you the following. Are you also thinking in this direction to strengthen the fight against money laundering, which is also an important battle in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u124	Madam President, Mr Matheï, the fight against money laundering falls within the exclusive competence of the Financial Information Processing Cell in relation to the preventive section and the police and federal police in relation to the repressive aspect. Your suggestion that the Belgian tax administration should be given the same powers as the Dutch FIOD cannot be followed because of the legal division of competence just mentioned. The integrated teams are part of the coalition agreement, which provides for so-called multidisciplinary research teams or MOTEMs as a permanent structure in each of the five devolved judicial boards. Its establishment falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u125	Minister, I look forward to the further development of the MOTEMs, their practical functioning and their impact on the problem of money laundering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u126	Minister, I am being questioned by people who do literary translation about the tax treatment that is reserved for the income of their work and specifically translations made under contract of publishing that generate copyright. The originality of the productions of literary translators is proven, each with its own style, with choices that distinguish them from their colleagues. This is a unique and personal creative process. When it comes to technical work, most often the contract is a package that does not include royalties and is not under publishing contract. However, at present, the SPF Finances regularly rejects or invalidates declarations containing copyrights on the works that have been translated, on the ground that the translations would not fall within the scope of Article 17, § 1, 5° of CIR 92 since they do not constitute original creations. As a result of the FPS Finance vision, translation revenues are ultimately, and in some cases, more taxed as real estate revenues than what is provided for in the code. Moreover, this approach fundamentally undermines the status of the literary translator and the foundations of his work. It puts lead in the wing for these occupations that are already poorly paid and not considered. This even gives rise to advice from accountants for mixed returns distributing income in different boxes, whereas they are income from literary translation. Minister, are you aware of any FPS disputes in this regard? Does it seem appropriate to clarify the situation? I think that would be so. Do you confirm that the income from a literary translation of personal creation must be taxed as copyright, i.e. according to Article 17, § 1, 5° CIR 92? What initiatives do you intend to take in order to clarify the information given by the SPF?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u127	Mr President, Mrs Cornet, Article 17, § 1, 5° of the Income Tax Code 1992 refers to income resulting from the transfer or grant of copyright and related rights, as well as legal and compulsory licences, as referred to in Book XI of the Code of Economic Law or by similar provisions of foreign law. Whether or not a literary translation is likely to constitute a work covered by copyright protection legislation is assessed in the light of the provisions of the Code of Economic Law, which falls within the competence of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, Pierre-Yves Dermagne. Furthermore, in order to be covered by Article 17, § 1, 5° of the Code, the contribution of the author of a protected work must be the result of the assignment or grant of his copyright. The remuneration collected by a taxpayer for translation work is therefore liable to constitute professional income, not personal income. Since the application of the tax system in question falls within the scope of a case-by-case assessment, only general guidelines may be issued. In this regard, I refer in particular to the circular of 4 September 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u128	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I regret that you are not going any further and that you are not more clear on the question of identifying a literary translation income that is a creative process so that it is imposed on the same footing as the royalties. I will continue to seek information from your colleague, Mr Dermagne, in order to clarify and verify in this circular on a case-by-case basis. I find that clarity is missing for the tax treatment of income in this trade. It's a shame because it's a creative profession like any other. I will probably come back to you, minister, for a sequel and other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u129	Madam President, Minister, after more than five years of negotiations, the European states seem finally to have a majority in order to advance tax transparency on a country-by-country basis. The text on tax reporting proposed by the European Commission in 2016 aims at obliging multinationals with turnover of more than €750 million to make public certain data such as their profits, the number of employees, the taxes paid, in a disaggregated way for each country to which they direct their activities. After a long blockage since 2016, it seems that we are now witnessing a breakthrough for more tax transparency, which we support at 100%. The Green Group in the European Parliament is on the front line on this issue. We fully support it from Parliament and the federal government. Hope is now that the cursor is moving in the negotiations with the European Parliament. Minister, what was Belgium's position on this country-by-country tax reporting? What are the next steps? Do you intend to retain the proactive and leadership role you have had in this issue with the government in the discussions at European level? What could we do, since the Federal Parliament, since the Finance Committee, to further support your action in this area? We believe that this is a very important subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u130	My colleague, tax transparency in the European Union is obviously of the utmost importance to my department. However, I must inform you that the discussion at European Union level concerns the directive on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain forms of business. This matter falls within the competence of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, Pierre-Yves Dermagne. So I have to send you back to him. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic406x.u131	I take note of the minister's answer and will question his colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne. Thank you and good end of the day.
