ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u1	I'd like to come back to the questions about the contributions for the care staff. In words they are distributed very quickly, a promise has been made quickly, but, for example, around the premium for the protective material, we see that the effect remains flawed. With the IFIC remuneration, it's no different. When we asked you questions about this last time, both in committee and in plenary, you admitted that the discussions were still going on to clear up the problems. That delay is reprehensible. After all, nurses must urgently choose whether they want to enter the system or not, if the deadline has not already expired. How can they make a good choice if the discussions on solutions to the problems in the system are still ongoing? I would therefore like to hear from you now whether the discussions to ensure a smooth transition have now been concluded. Is the deadline for choosing whether or not to step into the system now or not expired? One of the shortcomings of the IFIC system is specifically related to the banaba premium. Do people lose when they get in? You said that an alternative is being sought, but I have not heard any more about it. What is the status of this discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u2	Mrs. Catherine Fonck is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u3	Minister, the new IFIC remuneration system, which the government finally approved by mid-2020, has now been implemented. As a result, almost all hospital staff are now confronted with changes in their remuneration system. For one, it means a substantial wage increase of up to 8%, while others are stuck and virtually no increase falls to them. Because it was announced as a wage increase of up to 8%, some hospital staff are logically somewhat disappointed. Minister, how many hospital staff agreed to the new remuneration system and how many have opted to maintain their old job classification and the associated wage conditions? Can you indicate the additional gross cost of the operation on the basis of the number of boarding points in the new remuneration system? Some job classifications have barely or no storage, such as hospital psychologists. Do you still foresee any changes to the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u4	Minister, I asked you about this in a recent plenary session. You stated that IFIC would not lead to any losers and that staff would not be obliged to sign it. By saying this, you indirectly admit that not everyone will be valued. A lot of concrete testimony comes back to me. For example, some of the caregivers would lose their wages because of the new scales. This applies to individuals in the 1.55 scale who will be on scale 13, for example, in the IFIC. In this case, I refer to the case of a person hired on April 1, 2018 who is under an obligation to accept this new IFIC scale. The question arises as to what will happen to nurses who work in intensive care, for example, and who would like to have access, at some point, to a somewhat more suitable workplace, such as consultation work. The fear of staff is that they will be reclassified and paid under a less advantageous scale. Another problem exists. In some hospitals, staff were already receiving higher salaries, sometimes as a result of union struggles, than the IFIC predicted. Do you know if that's the case or not? Finally, there is another concern that, through IFIC, pension calculations would be different and that public hospital staff would also be penalized. In concrete terms, do you know why the staff of public hospitals in particular are so reluctant? How many people did they choose the IFIC scale? Can you answer the various questions I asked you? Will you make decisions to ensure that everyone is truly re-aligned following the health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u5	Mr De Caluwe is not here. As you know, we are in a topical debate and it is possible for other members to ask questions or to speak in reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u6	Mr President, I have a question that comes later on the agenda, but is directly related to IFIC. It concerns the situation of SISU nurses. The problem of this IFIC reform has already been raised on many occasions. It represents new benefits for many nurses, but also a painful situation for some of them. This is the case for SISU nurses, who are faced with a delicate and complex choice. Either they go to IFIC - they thus lose some current advantages and tend to lose recognition of their status - or they remain in their current status for those who can, without knowing whether they will retain it in the future. It's not easy. The situation is clear. I was asking my question on May 20th. The authors of a carte blanche had already expressed many expectations, notably in the direction of a recognition and financial upgrading of specializations - and here we are going in the opposite direction - of a revision of the standards of nursing supervision in intensive care and emergency care, but also of a series of hospital services which are currently lacking, as well as of the development of a real plan to combat the shortage of nurses. Although the IFIC reform now motivates and mobilizes the number of caregivers, it also has a consequence: it demotifies specializations. It's a danger. Have you heard these demands, minister? Have you been able to consult with the UGIB on this issue? Do you have any solutions and answers for these SISU nurses and these specialized nurses? What is the status of discussions on addressing nursing shortages? This reform of the IFIC leads to this questioning, as it places us in a general and comprehensive policy with respect to the motivation of nurses. Let's not leave the specialists out of the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rigot. I take it from your remarks that you have asked your question No 55017929C. This may be an oblivion in the grouping of questions according to the current debate. I shall then report it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u8	Yes, I've allowed myself to put it down. We're saving time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I must confess that I was a job classification expert in the past. So I know more than anyone how difficult it is to start up, shape and, above all, implement such a job classification project. After all, it is not just about pay, I may disappoint you, but often also about the relative value of a job compared to another job. Workers often translate that as "my value" when it's not really about that. A modernisation was absolutely necessary. If I am well informed, the previous wage model and the financing of 30 years ago have been dated and at some point we need to modernise. That brings things into motion, but it also raises resistance. Some fine principles were laid down after thorough negotiations with the social partners. The remuneration is based on the content and function. Also very important is that it is an evolutionary model. There is a free choice: the present workers who do not benefit from it can opt to stay in the old system. These beautiful principles are also important to implement the IFIC system in the long term. Because I know that it is difficult to implement the system and that the role of the social partners is very important, my first question is whether there is systematic consultation with the social partners. In what way will that happen? Will the professional organisations also be heard? We need to increase the appeal's attractiveness. That is why my second question is whether the system has been adapted in such a way that it can increase the influx at the start of a career.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u10	Mr President, the subject has already been raised on several occasions, including in plenary. I begin by repeating that IFIC is a new wage classification model created by the social partners of the healthcare sector itself. It is a model that is rolled out throughout the sector, both private and public. For the private sector it has been in place since 1 July 2021. The modalities of the introduction were agreed within the Joint Committee 330 and were laid down in the collective agreement on the full introduction of a new wage model for the federal health services of 31 March 2021. As far as the public sector is concerned, discussions are under way between the social partners. These are followed very intensively by my policy cell in order to reach an agreement as soon as possible. As far as timing is concerned, the public sector employees should be able to benefit from IFIC in the same way as their private sector colleagues. This means that it is still the intention of the social partners that public sector workers will be able to join IFIC in 2021, with retroactive effect from 1 July. That's the date of transition to IFIC in the private sector. In the meantime, a first sub-protocol was also concluded in Committee A. The second part is in preparation. At the moment it is not possible to give figures on how many people chose IFIC in the private sector. After all, it's only been in operation for a few days. Based on IFIC estimates, almost 80% of employees could choose IFIC. In general, therefore, IFIC represents progress. That's definitely at the beginning of the career. Mrs Vanpeborgh referred to its importance. That is indeed a conscious choice, including those who prepared IFIC. The aim is to improve the attractiveness of the profession for beginners. I would therefore like to reiterate that the new IFIC system is not mandatory for workers who are already employed in the care sector. The employer has provided each employee with the proposal to join IFIC or not. In doing so, he gave each employee a comparative overview of his wage path on the basis of the original baremas and on the basis of IFIC. This allowed the employee to make a choice. The employee for whom IFIC turned out to be unfavourable was therefore free to refuse to do so. That principle is not called into question because the employee who chooses to maintain his current career and wage path continues to enjoy the existing wage conditions, including the agreed future increases. Specialised nurses with a recognised professional title or professional qualification, known as BAT/BBK, retain the associated premium, even if they change employers. As has always been said, therefore, the IFIC system can never be detrimental to existing workers. I dare say that such a guarantee is quite unseen. The principle is also included in the collective agreement concluded by the social partners. As regards newly recruited specialized nurses, it should be noted first of all that the existing specialization premiums are integrated into the IFIC-baremas, so that they will remain valid in the future. IFIC assumes the responsibilities and technical actions actually carried out in the workplace. So people no longer only look at the diploma. That was also a conscious choice of the partners and IFIC. The signals from the field regarding the specializations that inspired you to ask these questions have reached both the social partners and me. The social partners have told us about this, and this does not leave me at all indifferent. I have heard the frustrations and concerns very well and, as I have said, the discussions are ongoing. I have also heard the professional associations themselves about this. Together with the social partners, it explores new incentives for lifelong learning and specializations for quality health care. In addition to looking at the situation of nurses, other care professionals are included in this exercise. At the same time, it is important that all this takes place within the logic of IFIC. IFIC is an evolutionary model anyway because about 10% of the functions are reviewed annually, which can lead to a change in a barema category. The content of the tasks and the IFIC job descriptions shall be used to determine the IFIC score and the IFIC category, and to assign a barema on that basis. In this way, IFIC is not only adapted to today's reality, the model is also future-proof. Of course, an employee will have the choice to join IFIC. I understand very well that there are questions and concerns about the introduction of this new model. At such moments it is important to listen carefully and to provide information as well as possible. My policy cell, together with the social partners, participated in a webinar organised by the umbrella organisation General Union of Nurses of Belgium vzw, just about the implementation of IFIC. Together with the social partners, we have tried to provide answers to the questions that live on the ground. I am permanently in consultation with the social partners to find solutions to the challenges posed by the specialisations within IFIC, but also the care profession, valorisation and activity of the care profession. That's not a simple assignment where I get away with a simple answer. It is an exercise that must be carried out on the basis of objective data and requires thorough research and debate. It's gonna take some time, too, but we're not gonna get out of the way. Tripartite consultations are under way, both in relation to IFIC and its attraction. The resources for this are also provided for. In particular, EUR 100 million has been earmarked for attraction, and I will of course continue to talk about this with the professional organisations. Mr President, there is an answer to the questions put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is very good that you have consulted the sector and participated in the webinar, because there were indeed a lot of questions about this in the field. It is also good, as you pointed out in plenary, that the choice remains and that no one is getting worse. It is not fair, however, that anyone who has invested in professional qualifications and thus acquired an additional title should not improve it compared to someone who does not. I understood that there was still consultation to adapt a sleeve there, so that caregivers with special qualifications or professional qualifications would also improve on it. I have not yet heard whether the matter has been settled. If the only solution is for those concerned to remain in the old system, I find that disappointing. You are trying to clarify the situation today, but you do not yet have an immediate view of the number. You say that 80% can improve on it and uses terms like "in general." It would be better if the necessary simulations had been done before, so that you could give us figures on who is making exact progress and, above all, give us an explanation as to why 20% is not progressing and what is to be expected for them. The uncertainty in the sector is understandable enough to cause the necessary displeasure. It is a pity that you have not been able to rectify that. Many nursing measures often express fine words and make promises, but do not implement them. This is now the case for the umpteenth time. Hopefully you will learn a lesson from this and deal with it better next time by first consulting and clearing things up before announcing that all nurses are making progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u12	Minister, it is a great pity that, despite the efforts of several millions of euros from the government, a group of staff from the healthcare sector is left with a feeling of dissatisfaction and resentment. It raises again the question of how decisions on the new job classifications with corresponding wage conditions have been made. Were some groups not represented or underrepresented, as is the case with such bodies? Not for the first time it is clear that some groups of doctors have a much greater influence on decisions than others. This is also why a much-needed reform of hospital funding is always doomed to failure: some people never want to restrict their prerogatives and privileges. The partial failure of the reform is, of course, regrettable. But if one knew that a group of workers would not improve, one should have communicated more carefully. If one very consciously opts for a policy of announcement "up to 8 % increase".......................................................................................................................................................................... We understand that the people involved are disappointed and that the story partly ends in an anti-climax, but that is only because of themselves and its communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I am a little more reassured today than I was two weeks ago after hearing you in plenary. Indeed, you admit that there are problems. Although the IFIC system seemed to us to be a good thing at first, since it is a question of paying for the function and not necessarily the diploma, it seems that it poses many problems. I hear there is no agreement yet and discussions are under way. In any case, a revalorisation of the scales for all is necessary. You say that people have a choice; this is not entirely true since young people must opt for this new system. So this one has to be good. In addition, will a graduate who will change his or her position within the hospital be able to continue to benefit from the same scale? This issue is a matter of great concern. Here, too, there is a question of the length of work. Working, for example in specialized services, is sometimes no longer possible from a certain age. In this case, will the person concerned lose part of his salary or not? There is also the question of all the achievements. In some hospitals, wages are higher. It is not normal for some public hospitals to opt for lower wages. You did not answer my pension question. Can the IFIC system have an impact on public service employees' pensions? The PTB will support the workers and their demands, and will not hesitate to come back to you to question the subject. Anyway, I wish you good negotiations. Minister, especially listen to staff and their concerns!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u14	Minister, this is a step forward for most nurses. We can't dispute it. It's a great recognition and an important financial recognition. But, as I told you, specialists are afraid to make a wrong choice. As for new workers, they will have to enter the IFIC system; it is a problem and it is not without consequences on motivation. However, I have some very positive points. First, as you said, the model is evolving and you will certainly continue to work with all those we need to consult on a daily basis to make the right decisions. I'm glad. Secondly, I am pleased to see that this consultation continues during the summer and that you have the will to land with a solution for these specialists who, today, have the impression of being left on the tile. Finally, since this is an impression and there is positive progress, please do not hesitate, Minister, to contact the representative associations, the unions, the workers and the workers so that they feel that they are not being chewed and that they are convinced that this is the right choice. I hear specialists every day who are fearful. If these fears are just a feeling, communicate tirelessly, go to them, inform them of what the reform represents for them and also tell them the positive consequences that can be present tomorrow on the ground! Don't miss this essential element! Keep in touch with the field! Inform, communicate, exchange! That is how you will succeed in the reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u15	Minister, I welcome the announcement that it is one of the objectives of increasing the attractiveness of the profession. I think that's very important. We often hear this question in the field, but also in the Committee on Health. Moreover, the fact that the current workers are not able to get back into farming is also a good thing. On the basis of my many years of experience, I can tell you that this is often not the case when many projects of job classification systems are implemented. This is the case and there is even a budget on the other side. I also welcome the systematic social dialogue, including with professional organisations. Experience has taught me that an ideal job classification model really does not exist. The shifts resulting from changes are always confronting one group or another. It warms the moods. It's not just about pay. It's also a psychological process. What's the value of my job? I know from experience that the consultation is particularly important. I am confident that you will make and continue to make a point of this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u16	Mr President, Minister, often I feel that the pfos scandal is only topical or topical at Flemish level, while there is also an important health aspect to it. Since there are still many questions on the agenda, I will not read the text of my question, I will confine myself to the essence. At Flemish level, it is stated that the polluter pays. Again and again, the question arises as to who pays for the cost of clean-up. But I wonder who's going to pay for the health costs of people who get sick by bringing pollution all the way back to a business. We are now dealing with a dossier with a specific reason, but the question can also be raised so that the matter can be looked at preventively. When companies place a potentially polluting product on the market and/or produce it in our country, is it already discussed with those companies who will pay the price when the precautionary principle is not being applied or is not being implemented? Minister, what about health costs? Can health costs be recovered from a company like 3M? What role can Sciensano take in that file? How does the cooperation with the OVAM go? What is the role of OVAM in the health risks? Can Grondbank, the soil manager of the Flemish government, also play a role? I would like to broaden the debate so that it is not just about the clean-up of the land, but also about health costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u17	Minister, I also refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u18	Minister, since several weeks the pfos scandal has broken out. It seems to be a potentially major public health problem. The people in the area still don't know what they're up to. In the meantime, it has been said that the locals are not allowed to eat eggs or vegetables from their own garden. We also know that phos is a hormone disrupter, which reduces the immune system. It is also potentially carcinogenic and affects fertility. I therefore hope that you will take this issue to heart as Minister of Health and that you will look at the implications for public health. I went to our former Scientific Institute of Public Health, now renamed Sciensano, which we all know from the succession of the corona crisis. On the website of Sciensano there is actually a small chapter about phos and phas, but that is very limited. I come to my questions to you. What steps have you, as a federal minister, taken to protect the population from phas? Are you also involved in the problems in Zwijndrecht and surrounding areas? Have you taken certain measures? How do you assess the danger and consequences of this pollution at the moment? Have you ordered any inquiry into the matter? There is already a small health study in progress. Did you have access to that? What exactly is being measured? Can you give us an update on that? To what extent do you cooperate with the Flemish government in this respect, given the different levels of competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u19	Do other Members wish to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u20	Minister, I have a few more questions. Mr Merckx has already mentioned the effects on hormone balance, the immune system and possibly an increased incidence of cancer due to phos or phas, but have there been any figures of an increased incidence in certain regions that could possibly be linked to those products? In Flanders, since 2020 there has been an action plan on Phas covering both health and the environment, but are there national actions on Phas planned by the FPS Public Health and can you elaborate on this? An Inter-Ministerial Conference (IMC) on pfas will apparently take place on Thursday, where you will also be present. Could you please explain what the purpose of that IMC is right? Minister Demir wants to discuss the approach of "pfas' in the Environment Council, because it considers that the EU is taking too little action on standardisation. Do you also intend to address that theme in the EPSCO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u21	Do other Members wish to take the floor? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u22	Mr President, I shall begin with a general introduction, in which I would like to mention a number of elements of the policy we are pursuing at the federal level. First of all, I should like to make it clear once again that, as the Federal Minister for Health, I have no competence to deal with local environmental pollution in Zwijndrecht. This is a competence of the Flemish government, but of course it is an important issue that we all follow as citizens. My administration is active in European and international policy on these substances. On the one hand, with regard to the whole REACH regulation. REACH stands for Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Retraction of Chemicals. On the other hand, in the case of contamination of pfas and pfos in food, because we have a responsibility for setting food standards. Mrs Gijbels, I think I can say that Belgium has been in an ambitious position in the European Union for several years, and I can only speak from the federal perspective, of course, in order to limit the use of pfas as much as possible. Then it is both about consumer products and about food. With regard to these federal powers, my government is closely following developments in this matter, but there is a division of powers between the various federal ministers. In the field of food control, Mr Clarinval is responsible. The BFSA is also within its competence, but of course we work closely together on this topic. Mrs Khattabi is responsible for the international aspects of chemicals. I refer to REACH, but also to POP, Persistent Organic Pollutants and CLP, Classification, Labelling and Packaging. I also have close discussions with Mrs Khattabi, of course. I do not know exactly what will be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, I think you should ask Mrs Khattabi, but I think it will be about what we can propose in Belgium, but also at European and international level. As regards the link between the environment and REACH, my administration has been active in collecting data on pfas in Belgium for some time now. My administration therefore works closely with the regional authorities responsible for this. This takes place within the CCIM structures, the Co-ordination Committee on International Environmental Policy - in the short chain of pfas sub-group. That's actually a replacement for the long chain phase. The short chain phase is still quite unknown territory. In any case, we work together on this within the CCIM structure. A report has been prepared on pfas in Belgium. This includes data on human biomonitoring, monitoring of industry bio- and emission data, etc. Data collected for this CCIM report will then be communicated by our services to the European Member States, which are preparing REACH restrictions on pfas. I refer to a European policy process that regulates, among other things, the manufacture, marketing and use of chemicals throughout the European Union. According to current planning, a general European restriction on PPPs will take action in 2024 at the earliest. In addition to the focus on pfas, which has been around for a long time, we are now also in close consultation with Mrs Khattabi's cabinet following the incident in Zwijndrecht to see what additional federal measures we could take on the environment or health. That will be discussed at the meeting you referred to, Mrs Gijbels. It's too early to tell me about that. Of course, this will also be done in close consultation with the Länder. As far as food standards are concerned, my administration is also part of the European working group that is designing new EU harmonised standards with regard to the presence of phase in food. We expect this working group to reach a decision by the end of 2021, and then continue the approval procedure within the European bodies. On the basis of the new thresholds proposed by the European Food Safety Authority EFSA regarding the intake of pfas per week, the so-called weekly intake, the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, the PAFF Committee, has decided to implement standards on pfas in food. There is therefore, on the one hand, EFSA which has proposed a new threshold for the total weekly intake after which, on the other hand, the PAFF Committee has decided to work on standards for pfas in food. A preliminary version of the standards has now been submitted to the Member States and they have been asked to adopt a position by the end of July. This will then be subject to a targeted stakeholder analysis, in which consumers and the sectors concerned will be questioned. The aim is to reach standards by the end of this year, which will then go through the procedure within the European institutions. In preparation of the Belgian position, the Advisory Council on Nutrition Policy is currently being consulted, including the Belgian stakeholders. We expect to be able to implement these standards by the summer of 2022, following the European process. You will say that this is going to take a while, and that is correct. On the other hand, if that succeeds, it will be quite fast for a European process that is now coming at full speed. The draft European Regulation on maximum levels of pfas in certain foods sets out draft standards for the four pfas identified by EFSA, including pfos. There are design standards for both the sum of the four substances and for each substance separately. These include the food groups of eggs, fish, shellfish, meat and poultry, game, organ meat and milk. In the case of fruit and vegetables, the Commission wants to have more monitoring before setting standards. For fruit and vegetables, therefore, the Commission would like to issue a recommendation to collect more measurement data first. There are therefore no European standards at present with regard to pfas in food. In the absence of this, the BFSA has established action limits. They indicate when action should be taken from the point of view of food safety. Those action limits have been established on the basis of an opinion of the BFSA Scientific Committee dated 2017. The BFSA is currently collecting 37 producers of meat, milk and eggs in a radius of 15 km around the 3M plant of Zwijndrecht. The BFSA applies the current action limits, but I must add immediately that we know that these action limits are outdated and must be assessed as high on the basis of moving insight. In the future, we expect lower standards and lower action limits on the contamination of pfas that could compromise food safety, based on a progressive understanding. Furthermore, there is also a challenge with regard to the performance of the laboratories. They must be able to measure very small quantities. There is still work to be done. It's about the LOQ, limit of quantification. One must have LOQs that are sufficiently sharp and sufficiently low to measure what one needs to know or determine what one needs to determine. To get a good picture of the whole Belgian situation, the BFSA will launch a campaign to measure pfas in food throughout Belgium. All information related to the situation in Zwijndrecht will be collected and analysed. This will contribute to the necessary federal and European regulatory actions. The results of recent debates in Parliament will be taken into account, as will the resolution on PHOS adopted in plenary on 1 July. We will follow this file closely to assess implementation opportunities, in addition to ongoing initiatives. We will support an ambitious and complementary federal approach at European and regional level in this area. It should be noted that the existing regulatory framework already covers part of this problem. With regard to the specific case of PFOS, the pollutant mainly mentioned in the case of Zwijndrecht, production, marketing and use of PFOS have been banned in the European Union for years, with the exception of non-decorative chromium 6 veneer in closed systems. Since PFOS is a POP (a persistent organic pollutant), it must comply with the waste management imposed by these directly applicable POPs regulations in Belgium. The Regions are of course free to set stricter standards. This is an important footnote to indicate that there is an already well-defined regulatory framework for the PFOS. As regards the concentration of PFOS found in the samples in Flanders, as regards the competence of the Flemish authority, the results depend on their research and have not yet been communicated to us. They will be provided to us by the NEHAP (National Environment and Health Action Plan) which is a structure in which the various Belgian environmental and health administrations work closely together. I would add that the Flemish government has been doing biomonitoring of pfas in the Flemish population since 2007. The decision is that pfas concentrations in the Flemish population are comparable to those of other European Member States. For pfos and PFOA we see exceedances of the health check values: 77 percent of the participating adults have a value above the checking value for phos and PFOA, but a decrease in those components over time has been established. This is undoubtedly a reflection of the restrictions on the use of these substances. From other pfas there are no results yet available. There is also an ongoing European project – Human Biomonitoring in Europe (HBM4EU) – in which PFAS data (including PFOS) from different countries will be analysed and compared. Analysis of these data is ongoing. We assess the impact of this pollution on the plant's population and on the Belgian population in the broad sense through the general biomonitoring of the Belgian population. It indicates the ubiquitous presence of PFAS among our citizens, which is a concern and leads Belgium to propose ambitious European actions. Moreover, we did not remain inactive about these substances. Since the 2000s, there have been POPs regulations, substance assessment, participation in expert committees in preparation for European and international policies, recognition of PFAS as a priority theme, etc. However, we cannot draw any clear conclusions on the precise consequences of this pollution, particularly before biomonitoring data for environmental measurements and food chain monitoring are fully available for this specific case. The data on exposure via the environment and concentration in the population are the responsibility of the Regions, which publish them on their website and share them with the federal level via the CCPI application in particular. More generally, from the point of view of toxicology and ecotoxicology, PFAS and PFOS are indeed an important concern. For PFAS, considered as a group, some of their hazards are legally recognized under various regulations, but this recognition currently exists only for a small portion of more than 6,000 PFAS. The danger of PFOS is one of the best known. A recent and ever more abundant scientific literature shows increasingly strong evidence of the various problems associated with some PFAS. There are possible cocktail and additive effects, i.e. the pooling of two PFAS may pose a greater risk than two isolated PFAS. There may be links to respiratory problems, endocrine disruption, or a potential link to obesity. There are also concerns about reduced vaccine efficacy following exposure to PFAS. For example, EFSA's CONTAM scientific group assessed low concentrations in four long chain PFASs in 2020 as having a negative effect on vaccine immune response. Further scientific studies to confirm links with covid-19 are under way in various countries. We cannot draw conclusions now, but we remain very attentive to this aspect of the problem. A lot of research has been done since the beginning of 2000 on the effects of phos, one of the phas. So we do have some additional information on that. In its most recent opinion with an overview of scientific studies, EFSA indicates that PFOS has an effect in particular on the liver and on developmental and reproductive toxicity, hypertrophy and immunotoxicity properties and could lead to an increased risk of different cancers. Because the substance has been investigated for many years, the scientific consensus is stronger. An analysis has already been carried out on a number of cancer cases in Zwijndrecht, but the conclusion is that the cancers that could possibly be associated with pfas do not occur more frequently in Zwijndrecht than on average in Flanders. The same applies to all types of cancers together. In summary, although there are still many uncertainties about the different types of pfas, there is sufficient concern regarding pfas to work on a general approach or a general group ban on pfas. That is actually what the European debate is pointing to. The possible effects of the specific situation in Zwijndrecht are difficult to estimate. The studies that will be carried out by the Flemish government will hopefully clarify this. The measurements of the BFSA will, of course, shed more light on this. I had questions about the negligence of the polluters, the reimbursement of health costs and the health complaints. The environmental liability regime for soil or groundwater pollution is a Flemish competence. This will also be discussed in the Committee of Inquiry set up in the Flemish Parliament. Every citizen is free to hold himself civilly liable or to file criminal charges. I understand that this has happened by now. There was a question about the Public Flemish Waste Company, the OVAM. The protection of soil and groundwater is, as has been said, also a Flemish competence. OVAM and the Vzw Grondbank are Flemish institutions. In this respect, too, I am looking at what the committee of inquiry in the Flemish Parliament will yield. "Will the EMV Directorate-General carry out the study requested by the mayor of Zwijndrecht?" Again, the study requested by the mayor does not fall within my competence, nor those of the DGM, but rather within the Flemish Region. According to my information, the study will be organised by the Zorg agency in Gezondheid. How does Sciensano follow that? Sciensano, together with the University of Liège, is the national reference laboratory for contaminants and process contaminants present in the environment. They have an ISO/IEC 17025 accredited method for the determination of perfluorinated components such as pfas, in particular pphos, in a number of foods. There was already contact with the BFSA. Sciensano will support the BFSA in the possible analysis of samples. I am, of course, also in contact with my colleague, Mr Clarinval, who is responsible for monitoring the safety of the food chain. The FLUOREX research project was launched on 1 June 2021. This represents exposure assessment of perfluoroalkyl substances as follow-up on the groups raised in the recent draft opinion of EFSA. The FLUOREX project is funded by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. The project provides information on the presence and exposure to four pfas in the diet of the Belgian population. This project will collect more data on food contamination using sensitive measurement methods. In addition, sources of pfas contamination in the food chain will be identified so that, if necessary, actions can be taken to reduce or even eliminate those sources. That is my long answer, Mr President. I thought it would be useful to put both the powers clearly and to outline the ongoing process. That is an important process. It is also encouraging that this European process, in which we participate, should result in the implementation of standards that we are failing today by the middle of 2022. We assume that Belgium can make a really constructive contribution to this. In the meantime, there are also important initiatives at the other levels of competence. I hope that the whole package of measures will serve public health, because that is, of course, our great concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer, but it is also a topical debate. You refer to the responsibility of Minister Clarinval, responsible for food safety. We also have a topical debate with Minister Clarinval on Tuesday 13 July. Then we can talk specifically about food safety and the actions taken by the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u24	Minister, you do not really reassure me. You are quite right to refer to the reference dose announced by EFSA in September 2020 almost a year ago. You also refer to a document from 2017 setting the standards, but that document used for pfos maximum values of 2008. So we are currently using standards in Belgium from 2008, while we have been seeing them for 13 years. The 2008 standards are 1,000 times lower than the value referred to by EFSA in 2020. I am not reassured if you say that we will have new standards in the middle of next year because now the BFSA says that it has carried out checks and that nothing is going on. The BFSA is reassured. The VRT then simply took over and the people are reassured. Minister, I am not reassured if we allow ourselves to be comforted by standards that are 1,000 times lower than what EFSA indicated almost a year ago. I cannot agree that we should wait two years for new standards, whereas EFSA said last year that the maximum dose should be 1,000 times higher. I remain concerned about that, because you rightly pointed out that it could be a cocktail, with several things we do not know yet. I may be too dark green at this point and I may have too much experience with pesticides, but we still have a cocktail there too. If we now call on everyone to be vaccinated when we have substances in mind that we know could have a negative effect on the functioning of the vaccines, then I can no longer reconcile that we must wait until the middle of next year for stricter standards. The EFSA believes that they should now be introduced. In any case, I will also mention this to Minister Clarinval, but unfortunately you have not been able to reassure me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. I identify several issues that have been raised in the questions and on which you have bounced back in your answer but for which there is a real need to hear an ambitious answer. Through this PFOS scandal in the Antwerp region, these are huge questions that we follow to document the health impacts. As far as this dimension is concerned, as my colleague Barbara Creemers has just shown, we do not have the right tools. However, if this is the case for the PFOS scandal, this may be the case for other types of pollution in Belgium. It's really time we were a 21st century country with ambitious standards to protect health. In this regard, I urge you, as Minister of Health and Deputy Prime Minister, to move forward. You also talked about the ongoing negotiations at European level and indicated that by 2022 there will be standards for PFAS products. I would like to point out that some countries have not waited for Europe and have made progress, in particular Denmark, which prohibits any form of PFAS in certain food packages. Belgium must be extremely ambitious, not just on PFAS but on all toxic products. This Antwerp experience must really make us aware of the seriousness of being exposed every day to toxic products. We need to move forward, and I think that's your role, too, as Minister of Health and Deputy Prime Minister. As for the issue of care, there has not been much talk about people who would be ill today. Are there any procedures? What can they do to find the information and report the difficulties they face? Your answer to that question was unclear. I think this could still be clarified in the coming weeks and months. Then comes the big issue of corporate social responsibility. Who's going to pay for it? It is a question that has been clearly asked by Mrs Creemers and myself. On this point, it is not yet very clear. These are really things on which we really need to move forward in terms of Belgian and European regulations. The project is enormous in all respects and we still have to make great efforts collectively to reach them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u26	Mr Minister, the pfos dossier does indeed concern not only the inhabitants of Zwijndrecht who have been given the council not to eat vegetables from their own garden or eggs from their own chickens. However, it goes beyond that. In other municipalities in the beautiful Waasland region, too, you should really visit, if you haven't done so yet, and there's a lot of concern about enlargement throughout the country. The farmers who are active in the 15 km perimeter around Zwijndrecht look very worried about the impact of the dossier on their agricultural activities and on the quality of their products. We must therefore follow up the dossier as a matter of priority with a view to public health. It is good that further investigations will be carried out into pfas and pfos. I hope that the results will be there as soon as possible, because the protection of our health is extremely important. It is also best to clarify the standards to be used as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u27	Mr. Secretary, I really am not reassured. You have discussed the BFSA and the standards on nutrition quite extensively. The ambition is very low, as you are talking about 2022 for any new standards. Meanwhile, the BFSA releases a reassuring communication based on standards dating back to 2008. This is a first concern, as is the fact that the ban on the products in question should be much quicker. However, I am even more concerned about your poor response to the possible consequences for public health in Belgium of the pollution identified. What is the plan of our Health Ministers' approach? If I understand correctly, you say that biomonitoring has shown that 77% of people are above the norm. Is that right? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u28	These products are potentially carcinogenic, disrupting the hormone balance and reducing the immune response, and it appears that 77% of the population are above the allowed standard. What about in Zwijndrecht? Is the situation there monitored? What about the workers working in the tunnel of the Oosterweel connection? Should we apply the precautionary principle or not? What do you think of that as Minister of Health? Are there any blood samples being taken? Sometimes that's measured in her, but I'm not a specialist myself. There are substances that accumulate in the fats. Is that under investigation? I got a very vague answer. Perhaps in 2022 we will know how many grams may be present in eggs. It could be much worse and so I expected Sciensano, our health institute, in collaboration with the Flemish government, to conduct a serious population survey, a serious investigation of the workers who work effectively with those products. I would have expected that the industries in which these products are still used would be investigated. Instead, you have given a very vague and long answer. We will certainly come back to this. Wake up! You haven't been shaken up enough, exactly. It is of course not like corona, where the hospitals will be immediately overwhelmed. However, it smells like a very serious public health problem. Your answer is insufficient and I hope you will take it more decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u29	Mr President, with regard to what Mrs Creemers and Mrs Merckx have said, I would like to stress that the most important thing is, in the end, what standards for these substances will be used in our diet. That is really the crucial point. I think we can agree on that. That is European regulation, regulation of the internal market, which is being established for the whole of Europe, which also makes sense. There are no standards yet and it is perhaps a good thing that this process of drawing up standards comes about at a time when we become aware that these substances are substances of concern that require strict standards. This awareness is indeed a process that has been going on for several years. My ambition is to contribute to an ambitious European system of standards regarding the presence of these substances in food. That is the essential point. The rest is context. I am hopeful and want to be truly ambitious in order to ensure that the European process under way within a year results in fairly high standards for the whole of Europe. Meanwhile, there is an important competence of the Flemish Government with regard to soil and water pollution and a competence of my fellow Minister Clarinval with regard to the control of the food chain. As far as the latter is concerned, we are indeed doing steel research using action limits that the BFSA itself sets and which are there in the absence of standards. You are right, Mrs Creemers, but you have just repeated what I said. I didn't mean to appease anyone. I have literally said that there are no standards, that this is a problem, that we urgently need standards for food and that there are action limits, but that they are outdated. It is not so easy to immediately convert those action limits into new action limits. The BFSA does not have them, but my message to the people is not that we need to panic, but that there is a growing scientific understanding that these substances are harmful and that their presence in our food should be limited. European standards are urgently needed for this. They're not even there, and we're fighting for that. You must correctly assess what we are doing. This is an important European public health battle. That's a fight I want to fight. I do not want to anticipate its conclusions either, because part of it is indeed a scientific discussion. Besides, it's also a problem with the performance of our labs. Let me give you an example. Suppose a certain standard is 0.2 micrograms per kilo. If one cannot measure that, there is no point in coming up with that standard. The labs must also improve their measurement performance if such strict standards are to be imposed. My colleague Clarinval is working on that. It is not 100 % evident that the BFSA's action limits are outdated to move immediately to new action limits, because there are also restrictions in the lab's measurement capacity today, where pressure is put to improve them. I am speaking for my colleague Clarinval. This is really about controlling the food chain. You're gonna have to question him about that next week. Saying we're not alarmed doesn't make sense. This is about public health. The essence is: what do we tolerate in our food? There are no standards there. Imagine that. We must have standards as a matter of urgency. Who's gonna determine it? Europe. That's the bet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u30	Minister, the essence is indeed public health. We all agree on that. For me, the essential thing is that the government conducts a policy that ensures that this does not happen again. I believe that we cannot tolerate waiting from September 2020 until mid 2022 for these standards to enter into force. If we have learned something from the corona crisis, it is that we can switch very quickly when it comes to public health. If someone had said last year that 70% of the adult population would have been vaccinated, everyone would have said that this was unfeasible. Still, we did. I think we need to take this up now and deal with it at European level but also at federal level. We can have the BFSA determine those action limits faster than Europe. I understand that there are a lot of scientific thresholds, but if we have learned anything in the past 16 months, it is that we can make scientific progress very quickly in the interests of public health. I'm sure we'll get back to this. We will also question Mrs Khattabi and Mr Clarinval, because I remain concerned about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u31	Mr. Secretary, I'm still hungry, too. What Mrs Creemers says is correct. These standards need to be switched much faster. We already know they're obsolete. Then why do we have to wait? We can also simply base ourselves on a scientific consensus to take action. We can decide for ourselves. People have questions. Am I polluted by PFOS when I live nearby when I'm working in the tunnel? Does our government take control of this or not? You remain entirely responsible for the answer. My question is not then who has what competence. No, I want to know from my health minister what the plan is. I want the pollution that has happened to be measured. I also want the consequences to be measured and mapped out. I have the impression that this is absolutely not the case. I find that absolutely disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u32	Minister, I hear some contradictions in your reply. You say that Belgium is very ambitious at European level in favour of reducing the use of PFAS, but at the same time you say that the BFSA uses limits in research that we know are outdated. I find it very difficult to grasp that completely. I understand that there is a certain context, but I don't understand why we can't switch faster if we know that we're working with outdated limits. You were most worried about me when you mentioned the detection capacity of the labs. Is there something wrong with their equipment, is she even up-to-date? We need to question Minister Clarinval on the matter in order to get a good overview of the extent to which we are involved in this area. That seems particularly important to me. We also have, of course, a lack of levels of competence and a fragmentation of powers between ministers and levels. It will have to be done to bring areas as close together as the environment, food production, food safety and public health to one level. This could simplify communication and lead to faster actions. As far as we are concerned, all this should go to the regional level as soon as possible. I hope that this can at least be another reason for a thorough debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u33	The Rules of Procedure provide that, in topical debates, the groups which have not tabled a question may put a question or reply. However, they must opt for either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u34	Minister, the Knowledge Centre published a report on the organisation and financing of obesity surgery. The problem is well known. About 1% of Belgians have already been operating to lose weight. In recent years, therefore, the number of surgical interventions for obesity has increased significantly. This can be found in the figures of the RIZIV. Surgery, however, is not always the miracle solution. First of all, maximum efforts must be made to prevent and prevent it from occurring. Bariatric surgery must certainly not be the first solution. If there is to be an intervention, it is of the utmost importance that it takes place in a centre where there is sufficient expertise. Afterwards there must also be follow-up with a permanent adaptation of dietary habits. The patient must also undergo nutritional and psychological monitoring. However, many patients are not sufficiently aware of this. The report also shows that not every Belgian hospital carries out the same amount of bariatric interventions. For example, some perform only three interventions per year, while others can reach an average of more than 800. That's a very large spread. The Centre of Knowledge has therefore made recommendations on this subject. They advocate conventions. Do you have plans to investigate how one could actually work with a system of conventions and carry out the bariatric interventions only in hospitals that meet certain conditions? There the KCE states that at least 100 bariatric interventions should be carried out. Another recommendation concerns the development of a uniform mandatory register for bariatric surgery. A lot of people have problems after that. Then it is important to know which procedure has just happened and where the problem may be. There is always a lot to do about the criteria for reimbursement. Do you have plans to supplement them with other conditions, as suggested in the report of the Knowledge Centre? Is there any consideration of a fee for participation in multidisciplinary consultations? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u35	Thank you for your question, Mrs De Block. I appreciate that you have fully explained your question so that interested people from outside this committee meeting can also follow closely. The elements you have indicated are indeed essential, and this issue also concerns many people. It is also an illustration of quality and better efficiency in our health care. My answer is rather short and I hope you will not find that disappointing, because I hope you will also see the commitment in it. You will no doubt know, since you are still following this, that the initiative was taken to draw up a multiannual budget path, supported by the RIZIV and with all the partners involved in health insurance. This multi-annual budget path is intended to be based on the real healthcare objectives. This includes the ambition to increase the efficiency of care, which requires proposals. The jargon used for this purpose, including the description of one of the working groups in that process, is: proposals on appropriate care. One of the proposals that the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds would put forward concerns the realisation of a care path for morbid obese patients. In that proposal, the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds also included the recommendations contained in the KCE report 329, which you quoted. Several stakeholders have also submitted proposals in the context of healthcare objectives, which we have also requested in the context of that process, on a global and multidisciplinary approach to obesity. In addition, I will keep it and I hope you will not find that disappointing. The analysis of these proposals is under way. The appropriate care working group looks at these proposals. There is also a working group on health objectives. We are trying to make a link between the health objectives, the budgetary work and the necessary reforms and innovations. So what you have said fits in very well. In my opinion, you are right to say that consideration should also be given to reimbursement and accessibility. The analysis is ongoing. I can't tell you when exactly the RIZIV that hopes to finish. I fear that I will not be able to give more details about all this work until after the summer recess. I suggest that we certainly talk about this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u36	You gave a short answer, but quantity is not always quality and content was very good. There is therefore a working group within the framework of appropriate care and one works multidisciplinaryly, as it should be. The rest, of course, comes from it. I am thinking of the reimbursements, the expertise in terms of quality of care, efficient care, etc. It's a topical theme. It is, of course, a long-standing problem, but there are reports that due to the lockdown there have been quite a few eating disorders that have prevailed among many people, including by lack of movement. It would indeed be good to put things right in the next few months. If you will allow me, I will return to this committee at the end of October or November to ask what the situation is. I'll ask you in advance, because if there's a little delay, I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u37	That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u38	Mr President, Minister, today or yesterday, the publication on the ESMO study clearly indicated that there were 6% fewer cancer diagnoses in 2020. There is a catching-up movement, but a lot of specialists are calling on our country to create a new cancer plan, because the current one dates from some time ago. Important in this plan is the preventive and diagnostic capacity of our country. The FDA has already approved several monogenetic tests. In these tests, tumor DNA can be detected via blood samples. The blood sample then becomes a liquid biopsy and thus one can follow in a less invasive way the evolution of the disease and the effectiveness of the treatment. In addition, such a liquid biopsy can be used as a basis to prepare a personalised treatment for the patient. In Belgium, a number of patients participate in a study on this subject, the GeNeo project, giving them access to multigenetic plasma tests. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Our country is lagging behind the United States in terms of the generalised use of liquid biopsies in clinical practice. To what extent does your administration carry out today an investigation with a view to the reimbursement of such mono- or multigenetic tests in the context of cancer therapy or diagnostic research? There are currently no such tests on the market. Are your services working on this in the context of a horizon scanning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, I would like to endorse your introductory remarks. There is indeed an important impact of the pandemic on consultations, investigations and interventions, and that indeed has an impact on the field of cancer. We also follow up on this, together with the hospitals, the doctors, the administrations, the Cancer Register Foundation and the Cancer Centre. It is important that we learn from the observations we are making now. Moreover, it is also important that we ensure that cancer patients, and particularly patients under immunosuppression conditions, are placed in the vaccination campaign in good time. You probably know that a cancer plan is being launched at European level, namely Europe's Beating Cancer Plan. We discussed this in the Council of Health Ministers. I also said that I thought this was a very important opportunity, including for our own country. We're watching how best to respond to that. I asked the Cancer Centre to draw up a plan of action in line with that Europe's Beating Cancer Plan. Something more concrete, there are currently several studies that are looking at where liquid biopsies could be used within our diagnostics in oncology. My policy cell and the administrations follow the Precision Belgium project of The Belgian Society of Medical Oncology, which examines the use of tests. The Cancer Centre closely follows the results of, among other things, the GeNeo project to which you refer. Of course, I'm very curious what that means to the patient. Together with the RIZIV we are looking at how we can repay such a test in a sustainable way. I do not want to anticipate what we will decide and certainly not make empty promises, but that is being looked at. I would like to point out that the Cancer Centre, in consultation with my services, is leading the European research project oncNGS to develop such tests for oncology by producers. The European Commission has made available funds for this within the framework of the Pre-Commercial Procurement Programme and is following this closely. This oncNGS project runs together with the Belgian, Italian, French, German and Spanish teams with expertise in carrying out such a test in cancer patients. I hope that this will provide good and affordable solutions that we will then be able to integrate into our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I did ask this question on the basis of the European cancer plan, but also because now is the time to propose a cancer plan of my own as a country. You refer to the Precision Group and the GeNeo project. I remember that this started on 14 February 2020, just before the covid pandemic. At that time, people from the RIZIV and representatives of Sciensano were already looking at a possible reimbursement of those diagnostic tests, and then looking at a very specific treatment of the patients. It is really necessary to examine, on the substance, how we can move forward with this. I'm glad you will, too. We'll be able to better deal with side effects. We'll be able to work more focused on the patient. At that time, we may also be able to consider the study of the KCE on innovative therapies. You may have read it, too. We know that Pay for Performance is not yet sufficiently applied in Belgium. Hopefully, your services will put forward proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u41	Minister, the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics has recently issued an opinion on the NIPT. It's been run by standard in our country for a long time with the aim of researching chromosomes 13, 18 and 21. Usually a genome-wide research is done because it is easier to carry out. This also allows numerical deviations of the sex chromosomes (SCAs). The Committee now considers that prenatal identification of risk factors at present does not provide any added value in treatment compared to the postnatal diagnosis of SCAs. The Committee believes that SCA screening should not be part of a standard NIPT screening and reporting, but SCA screening can be offered as an option for those who want to know SCA-related risks. In any case, the Committee recommends better counselling before and after the test, so that future parents can give their informed consent, but also their right not to know. I would like to hear from the Minister what your position is on the position of the Committee not to carry out a genome-wide NIPT unless parents explicitly request it. How do you want to ensure that future parents are better informed about the consequences of the NIPT, including the genome-wide NIPT?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u42	Since 1 July 2017, NIPT has been reimbursed by the health insurance system through the nomenclature under the following terms: prenatal detection of trisomy 21 using a molecular biological method on a mother's blood sample from the 12th week of pregnancy. This means that only reimbursement is provided for the possible detection of trisomy 21. If in practice it appears that other chromosomal abnormalities are also detected, then that was not the intention of the legislator. It goes without saying that if more extensive testing is carried out, it must be discussed with future parents in advance and recorded in an informed consent, a so-called informed consent. I agree with the view of the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics that there are currently too few arguments for the inclusion of the SCAs, the sex chromosome aneuploidies or abnormalities of the sex chromosomes to which you referred in the standard prenatal NIPT screening and reporting. It may be argued whether some of these conditions can be categorized as an extremely serious disease which justifies a late termination of pregnancy. This applies to the SCAs described, but certainly also to other genetic defects that can be detected in this way and which, for example, only increase the risk of a certain deviation or are associated with diseases that can only lead to disease at a later stage in life, such as an increased risk of developing cancer. The debate is therefore wider than just about the SCAs. The availability of more information on the foetus raises the wide demand for the desirable range of prenatal screening. The Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics concluded on the basis of medical-ethical considerations that there are currently not enough arguments to include SCAs. When introducing new techniques and possibilities, it is important to make the ethical balance clear. The nomenclature provides that NIPT can only be prescribed by the doctor who succeeds pregnancy. This means a certain guarantee that a health care professional informs the future parents and also informs them of the outcome. However, if care providers and laboratories proceed to a much broader prenatal screening beyond the intentions set out in the nomenclature, then we must continue the public debate on this subject, with the advice of the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics certainly giving direction. I agree with the Committee that women and couples should be informed about the possibility of screening for SCAs and should also be able to opt for screening for SCAs if they are adequately informed. If, due to the choice of women or couples, SCAs are included in the optional non-invasive prenatal tests, the results shall be communicated to the parent or parents in an understandable and nuanced manner. This requires reliable information on the overall purpose and range of screening, on the method, reliability and validity of the test, on the need to perform an invasive prenatal test in case of a positive result, clarity on what the results may imply and information that goes beyond the medical description of the conditions on which screening is carried out. If appropriate, a multidisciplinary consultation with the clinical geneticist may also be proposed. I'm assuming this is part of standard medical practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. It would indeed be a good thing to have a social debate on this issue. There are many elements that are important. We must ensure that parents have sufficient knowledge to make the right choice about whether or not to carry out such tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u44	Mr President, I think it is a little chilly here. That is excellent, because that indicates the quality of ventilation. Could you ask for coffee so I can warm myself up a little bit? I see the members nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u45	I will take care of that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u46	Minister, according to the WAIT indicators from 2018, our country did not score well on the accessibility of orphan medicinal products and the new report does not show much improvement. Since we are expecting a new European regulation on orphan diseases and medicines by mid 2022 and you yourself referred briefly in your policy paper to the problematic accessibility of orphan medicines and the supervision of patients with orphan diseases, I have a few questions. Firstly, what position will our country take vis-à-vis European colleagues in relation to the revision of the regulation? What are the pillars on which, according to your cabinet, Europe should focus? What position will you take as the competent minister of our country? Secondly, how will you ensure better access to orphan medicines in our country? After all, we score only on average and should be more ambitious. Thirdly, there is also a problem with programs Unmet Medical Need. Patients must be registered separately each time, which is very burdensome for the administrative services of hospitals. Would it be possible for you to deviate from the individual patient and work with cohorts? Fourthly, patients' associations have been asking for a long time to become more involved in the treatment of the file on orphan medicinal products in the CTG. Would you like those patient platforms to be monitored, for example with regard to a horizon scan? Finally, to what extent will you facilitate the collection of data on orphan diseases and medicines? Will you, for example, involve the Inter-Mutualist Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u47	Mrs Depoorter, you asked interesting questions, which I will deal with one by one. First of all, as regards the position of our country, the FAGG, the RIZIV and the KCE have already provided common comments to the European Commission on the revision of the Regulation on orphan medicinal products. Those comments were also published on the Commission's website. We recognise that the current regulation has shortcomings, which need to be addressed in the context of a review. One of the issues is, for example, the fact that the same incentives are given for the development of all orphan medicinal products, while it is a recommendation to provide different levels of incentives, depending on the amount of additional studies to be carried out as well as the importance of the medical emergency in the indication. It is also important that the revision of the regulation should not jeopardise things that are now going well. The revision of the Regulation may contribute to the further development of orphan medicinal products, but it must of course be accompanied by non-legislative actions such as research funding. You had a question about the accessibility of orphan medicinal products in Belgium, if EFPIA shows that the steps taken in the previous legislature are not sufficient. The marketing authorisation for orphan medicinal products is granted at European level. However, access to the market of these medicines is different between the European Member States. The European Commission's aim is to eliminate inequalities through the revision of the Regulation on orphan medicinal products and more generally European pharmaceutical legislation. At national level, we are trying to give patients access to these medicines as quickly as possible, even before they have a marketing authorisation. We provide, among other things, a favourable climate for clinical studies. We also have a well-functioning system for unmet-medical-need programs. In any case, companies have an important part to play in the matter. In Belgium there are opportunities to offer products quickly to patients, from EEA approval, and even for EEA approval. However, it is in the hands of the firms to make use of these opportunities. We often see that they do not do so in practice. For them, the lack of financial incentives is probably more important than helping patients. I regret that. I want to look into that and I want to find solutions to it in a new pact with the pharmaceutical sector. That's what the coalition agreement says. We are talking to all actors, not just industry. In your third question you refer to the unmet-medical-need program. At present, there is a national procedure allowing a compassionate-use program, CUP, to start. In doing so, it is necessary that sufficient data are available to carry out a proper benefit-risk assessment. In addition, it should allow effective communication with doctors, according to the protocol, and with patients who need to give informed consent. Concerning the urgent need for the use of a medicinal product without authorisation, Article 107/1 of the Royal Decree of 14 December 2006 applies, of course, if the conditions laid down in that Article are met. The number of applications for compassionate use programs (CUP) and medical need programs (MNP) at the FAGG is stable over the years. In 2020, 38 CUP and MNP applications were submitted, all involving 2,900 patients. As has already been said, I take on board an evaluation of the regulation and its practical application in the preparation of the Pact. As far as your fourth question on patients is concerned, no decision has yet been taken on the involvement of patient organisations in a horizon scanning platform. I certainly agree with you that patients can bring in expertise. That is why I proposed that they take an active part in the discussions on the multiannual budget path of the RIZIV, which I referred to in my reply to a previous question by Mrs De Block. For example, one representative of the umbrella of patient associations is part of the steering group, which will provide me with the final report on the work on the multiannual budget line 2022-2024. Discussions on the pharmaceutical pact have begun. Patient associations have been consulted. I will read the steering committee's report and the feedback from the discussions on the pharmaceutical pact carefully and, of course, draw the necessary conclusions from it. You closed with the theorem "Measuring is Knowing." That's absolutely correct. Data collection can contribute to quality and more accessible healthcare. The eHealth platform offers the possibility of further developing data collection. The pharmaceutical pact will contain elements to stimulate research and development. This is done by collecting data on medicines, including orphan medicines. For example, it will be examined whether the existing TARDIS system, a system whereby the physician can enter patient data in the context of certain pathologies and at the same time make an online request for reimbursement according to the only-once principle, can be extended and serve as a basis for qualitative real-world data studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u48	Data connection I'm talking about the real world data... can generate new evidention. This is particularly important for medicines intended for patients suffering from a rare condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as the European aspect is concerned, you announce that you will investigate how, on the basis of the new European directive, we can cluster and manage clinical research. That is what worries me about the new European legislation on clinical trials, which is being implemented at the moment. You will have to be very vigilant to continue to defend our country's leading position in this area. In particular, there is a fairly high level of competition between different companies and organisations about the entry price, facilitating and engaging patients. It's like the patients you need to find. In our country, patients are not allowed to be contacted. They have to offer themselves. It might be a tip to go a little deeper on this. You also say that even though medicines have not yet been approved, there is a reluctance on the part of the companies. The fixing of prices is very important, and for that we absolutely need a discussion with the companies. I also regret that you refer to the Farma Pact for the specific approach to orphan medicinal products. Of course it is part of it, but I think an action plan on orphan diseases and orphan medicines is really necessary in our country. Sharing information and sharing the results of clinical trials, including in our country, is very important. At the moment, there is a representative of the umbrella patient organisations on the steering committee, but orphan diseases are so specific that it may be an idea to ask experts who accompany patients and patient platforms and who can also assist the government in making decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Gilson, I think it is necessary to briefly recall the framework within which supplementary mutual insurance is organised. In 2010, following a complaint lodged with the European Commission by Assuralia, Belgium had to amend its legislation with regard to the services that mutual societies can offer to their members. The complaint was based on the fact that Belgian mutual societies offered their members services which in fact constituted insurance, without being subject to insurance legislation. The complaint was declared well founded and the reform was carried out by a law of 26 April 2010. In its terms, mutual societies wishing to continue to offer services which constitute health insurance for their members must offer them through a mutual insurance company which constitutes a new form of insurance undertaking which cannot, in accordance with the principle of speciality, offer services other than insurance, and which can organise them only for the benefit of its members. Furthermore, in order for the supplementary insurance services of a mutual benefit not to be regarded as insurance and to be always organized by this mutual benefit, they must meet a number of criteria which have been laid down in the law. These criteria include the following: each person affiliated with mutual benefit must have access to this service regardless of age, sex, state of health; by way of derogation, certain benefits may, if objectively justified, be limited to certain categories of members; the amount of the benefit may be increased for certain members, but only in favour of members who have social status which gives rise to increased intervention under compulsory health care and allowances insurance. However, close caregivers are not a category of people with such social status. The statutes of mutuality that you refer to already provide that close caregivers may benefit from certain specific benefits in the context of supplementary insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u51	In each case, the granting of specific benefits to close caregivers was approved by the Office for the Control of Mutualities, which considered that it was objectively justified to grant specific benefits to the only target group of close caregivers. On the other hand, what justified the Board's refusal was the offer of an intervention in excess of the amount for close caregivers compared to other members of mutual benefit, who could also benefit from this advantage. The Office de contrôle des mutualités informs me that a provision that provided for a higher benefit for close caregivers was initially refused in 2015 for the same reasons. On the occasion of the merger of the mutualities Partena and Securex on January 1, 2017, the new version of the complete statutes, approved by the Office, reintroduced the provision refused in 2015. Regrettably, the Agency has not been vigilant at that time. He recently realized this when he requested a new amendment to the articles of association concerning close caregivers. Although I feel, like the Office for the Control of Mutualities, that it is objectively justified to provide for the specific benefits for this target audience in the framework of the supplementary mutual insurance services, I do not consider it appropriate to question the criteria set out in the law endorsed by the European Commission following a lengthy procedure, which these services must satisfy in order not to be regarded as insurance. However, as I have already mentioned above, the current framework already provides for several possibilities for mutual aid workers to intervene in favour of close caregivers. They may either provide for specific benefits for close caregivers and, where appropriate, for another target audience for which this would also be objectively justified and not provide for them for other members, or increase the importance of the benefit for all members, so that access to the service is effective for all members and the guarantee is the same regardless of the target audience. It is therefore quite possible for mutual societies to adapt their offer of benefits according to this specific target audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u52	Minister, what I want to remember from your answer is that it is absolutely necessary to avoid discrimination between close caregivers and close young caregivers. I trust you to make the best possible effort to help them through mutuality prevention missions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u53	Minister, The Latest News reported on the increasing number of forced admissions into psychiatry. In 2010 there were 3.043. Since then, they have increased by an average of 4.6 % per year. In 2020, one in eight recordings in psychiatry took place involuntarily. Zorgnet-Icuro collected these figures and delegated director Margot Cloet also noted that the forced collocation is now often used to bypass the long waiting times for an ordinary psychiatric withdrawal. As early as 2015, at the request of the then Minister of Justice Laurette Onkelinx, the National Council for Hospital Services issued an opinion on how to thoroughly adapt the then law on the protection of the person of the mentally ill. This law regulated, among other things, the forced admission into psychiatry, better known as collocation. Those adjustments were urgently needed. The existing legislation dates back to 1990. But it still didn't go beyond advice. Are you aware of this advice? If not, will you request this advice from the National Council for Hospital Services? If so, will you urge your fellow Justice Minister to turn this six-year-old advice into legislation? Do you support the amendments to the law proposed in that opinion? What steps will you take to finally put this problem and this advice at the top of this government's agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u54	Mrs Sneppe, I am certainly aware of the opinion of the then National Council for Hospital Services on forced admission. Following that opinion, at the initiative of then Minister Geens, a joint working group was set up to prepare a revision of the law on the protection of the person of the mentally ill. The working group was composed of representatives of the Cabinets of the Ministers of Justice and Health and their administrations, magistrates, doctors and hospital administrators. At the end of the previous legislature, this working group ended its work but did not produce a report. The federal government agreement states that the law of 26 June 1990 on the protection of the mentally ill person is being thoroughly reformed on the basis of the preparatory work of this joint working group and of the new insights into mental health and justice. Meanwhile, my policy cell received a preliminary report from this working group. This was also discussed with the chairman of the working group and with the Minister of Justice's policy cell. It is important that the report can be completed quickly so that the regulatory framework can be adapted accordingly. The revision of the legislative framework falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. If you are asking about the actual timing and the state of play with regard to the revision of the law, I must nevertheless refer to Minister Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u55	Minister, I am glad that this review is finally being carried out after so many years. I also know it's not your jurisdiction, but if the colocation is used to bypass the waiting times for an ordinary psychiatric admission, I think it's within your jurisdiction. I hope that the Minister of Justice will do this quickly and that you will be able to urge your colleague to put this at the top of the agenda, because it is certainly not the intention that the preparatory work should remain at the bottom of the drawer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u56	Madam President, it is a rather cumbersome question. I therefore refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u57	Madam President, Mrs Depooster, I will give a brief answer. I hope you don't mind. I am aware of the problems you have described and also of the urgency with regard to the recognition procedure of the profession of bandagist, orthesist and prothesist. On 17 December 2020, the Federal Council for Paramedical Occupations and the Technical Commission for Paramedical Occupations indeed prepared a joint opinion on the training of orthopedic technologists. The opinion and further steps are currently being examined in depth. It is not the only thing, but I realize that it is really necessary to make progress in this area. The dossier is also discussed intensively in the IKW Health Care professions with the Länder. That is what we must do. I cannot anticipate the decision-making process. So I'll leave it at that. However, the dossier is really under investigation at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u58	Minister, your answer is indeed very short. Maybe I should have asked my question after all. It is not, of course, the only profession in which recognition and implementing decisions are challenged. It deserves the absolute attention. New students are studying today who have no clarity and no guarantee about the implementation of their job. For the patients it is also a very annoying phenomenon. I would therefore urge you to move forward with all the recognitions and royal decisions that still have to be made for paramedical and medical professions. We're gonna talk about it later. Now is the time to work on a solid structure and a solid framework within which those involved can work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u59	This question is about an internship for clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues. The mandatory practical placement was determined following the law of 10 July 2016. In May, there was uncertainty as to whether those who had started their studies would be granted an exemption for that internship in 2016, even if transitional measures were envisaged. That is, of course, understandable. After all, the people who started that year had a study in which they were not prepared for practical placements that year. Sometimes these are people who are already working or more financially vulnerable. They were looking forward to that additional year. There has also always been a problem of sufficient internships for psychologists. Meanwhile, I have been informed that the defect in the academic year 2016-2017 would have been remedied. You may be able to confirm that the people who graduate in 2022 should no longer do that year of internship. Of course, the question remains whether those who started in 2016-2017 and are entitled to a switching programme are also eligible and whether there are opportunities to obtain partial exemptions for work students who have work experience. Of course, there are also students who started the study and were not aware of the fact that there would be an internship of one year, then interrupting their studies because of financial problems, pregnancy or family conditions. Could the people with an interrupted study be covered by the same modalities as those with an uninterrupted study started in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u60	Mr President, the context of my questions is the same as that of Mrs Van Hoof's questions. We are really struggling with a shortage of clinical psychologists and caregivers in mental health care. Trainees and internships are clearly experiencing administrative difficulties. It is very difficult to get the administration around and the institutions explicitly ask for it to be simplified and to ensure that students can go to their internships effectively and do not create problems. We all know how urgent this is. I have recently asked you whether you will be able to spend the resources that can be devoted to mental health care. You yourself replied that we will not get there, because we do not have sufficient trained staff. That may be one of the steps to improve the situation. The second part concerns the supervised practical placement, which has only become clear for certain students in their studies later. There are signals from people who retrain, train or work on a switching program that they are really surprised that they have to do 1,700 extra internship hours. That can be a problem if you have to take care of a family. It is surprising that no rules have been laid down on the funding and the shared implementation of the internship over several academic years. It must be possible to find a solution in a fairly simple way, so that these people can get to work as clinical psychologists in practice. This has been resolved for the 2016 academic year. Especially the students who started later still have questions. We need to promote and facilitate retraining, especially to the bottleneck professions such as clinical psychologists, given the high needs in mental health care. This must therefore be remedied quickly. Can you do something about that and at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u61	Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Depoorter, as you both undoubtedly know, the professional internship is a prerequisite for being recognised as a clinical psychologist or clinical orthopedagogic after obtaining the visa. That obligation applies to all clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues wishing to exercise the profession autonomously, but there are exceptions to that obligation in the coordinated law on the exercise of health care professions. The obligation shall not apply to clinical psychologists or clinical orthopedagogics already in clinical psychology or orthopedagogic practice on 1 September 2016. Nor does it apply to the students of clinical psychology or orthopedagogy who started their studies on 1 September 2016 or started them at the latest during the academic year 2016-2017. Recognition is the responsibility of the Communities. Mrs Van Hoof, you ask if the students who graduate in 2021-2022 are also exempt from that obligation. The law only expresses its opinion on the date on which the study should begin, not on the time of graduation. It is therefore difficult to tell me who is or is not exempt from the professional internship outside the general framework of the law I have quoted. There are many different routes that require a separate assessment. The same applies to the switching students and side-intromers. In this group there are many different routes that need to be assessed separately. A partial exemption for work students for that professional internship is not included in the law. Because of the spirit of the legislation, this is not evident, since the skills, skills and competences taught during the professional internship are dependent on the acquisition of autonomy in clinical psychological practice or orthopedagogic practice. Such competences and expertise cannot as such be built up during a master's internship or during a previous work experience, as taking that professional internship will only give access to the autonomous exercise of clinical psychology or orthopedagogy. As I said, the recognition of health professions falls within the competence of the Communities. It is therefore up to them to determine whether the conditions for exemption from professional internship have been met. They work out the different conditions, also for the switching students and the side-intromers. I can therefore only advise the students to contact the Communities in order to obtain an answer on their specific dossier. Mrs Depoorter, you are asking if it is possible to divide the internship over different academic years. First of all, I would like to stress that the professional internship is no longer part of the education to master in clinical psychology or clinical orthopedagogy. The internship is a prerequisite for obtaining recognition in order to be able to exercise the profession autonomously, not in order to obtain the master's degree. The internship should therefore not be understood in academic years. Article 7 of the Royal Decrees establishing criteria for the recognition of clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues, as well as of internships and internships, states that the internship is at least 1,680 hours, that it can be carried out part-time with a minimum of 20 % FTE and that it can be spread over a period of up to five years. You also ask about the number of internships and the status during the internship. The number of internships is not yet known. The first applications are now evaluated by the working group within the Federal Council for mental health professions. As you know, the transitional period for the application for recognition as a trainee has been extended until 1 July 2026. The administration expects the number of applications to increase steadily. The fears about the number of places available are understandable. My administration therefore actively communicates with the field of work in order to inform and guide potential candidates as well as possible. With regard to remuneration, I would like to say the following. Candidates should conclude an agreement with an internship master or a coordinating internship master, which includes the mutual obligations and remuneration. So there's no compensation from the federal government. Finally, as far as the administrative burden is concerned, my administration is solely responsible for the recognition of internships and traineeships for the professional internship. In order to minimise the administrative burden, it has created a portal website available to all candidates. Under the only-once legislation, only information that is not yet available to the administration will have to be supplemented. It may be considered whether this procedure should be further refined. It is also up to the Communities to simplify the procedure for recognition if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u62	Mr. Secretary, apparently people are being sent quite from the locker to the wall. For students working on it, who started their studies in 2016 and have an interrupted study programme because, for example, they now have a family, the Flemish government apparently cannot find a solution either. Flanders makes it clear that the transitional measures require federal approval. On the Flemish side, those involved went to the Agency and to the cabinet of Minister Beke, on which they are sent back to the federal government. That is the state of play with regard to the interrupted journey. You have just referred to situations where an alternative interpretation of the internship itself is required. The law clearly states that it must be organised in this way, but it remains a federal power to develop alternatives for this group of people. I call on you to look into this with your cabinet, possibly in consultation with the Ministers of Welfare. When they started their studies, of course they were not aware of the fact that there would be a professional internship.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u63	Mr Minister, like Mrs Van Hoof, I have consulted a Flemish minister, a friend of mine, of Education in this case. He also sent me to you. The transitional measure must indeed be worked out federally. So I urge you to look at the case and work out the internship modalities, which are a federal competence. A good thing is that the internship can be spread over five years, but with regard to the number of internships, the concerns, as you yourself say, are justified. Especially in view of the health crisis we are still in today, it is important to be able to guarantee as many placements as possible. A conversation, all well and good, but the administrative burden remains considerable, even though you have set up a portal. It can have a slowing effect. We must bear in mind that many of the students who are knocking on both my and Mrs Van Hoof's door are in the process of reorientation. They already have a master's degree. This recognition of the profession is therefore very important, otherwise they will not be able to carry out their reorientation or become an important link in mental health care. I therefore call for urgency. Like the previous dossier and that of the psychotherapists, it is really in your hands, you can take transitional measures and make sure that we can fill in the whole health sector in a simple way. The need is great, I am sure you share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u64	Mr President, Minister, skin cancer is a real scourge in our country, with an exponential increase in cases: 43 000 cases in 2018 compared to 11,000 in 2004. The Cancer Foundation is sounding the alarm. According to her, the majority of skin cancers can be avoided by protecting against UV rays. According to their experts, solar banks, global warming and ozone depletion are the main causes. Minister, do you confirm the considerable increase in the number of skin cancer cases in Belgium? This accelerated increase puts pressure on health care. The deadline for appointments in dermatologists is too long, with the consequence for patients that the diagnoses are made too late. The Foundation also calls for a national action plan including detection, prevention, treatment and research. Minister, what options can be considered in this context? Have you had contact with your counterparts in the federated entities? Is such a plan possible and desirable? What is the status of the cancer plan launched in 2008? Is an evaluation on the agenda? Finally, the Cancer Foundation also sounds alarmed and points out that one of the avenues is to ban the commercial use of solar banks, as have other countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. What is your position on this possible ban on the commercial use of solar banks? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u65	Mr President, as my colleague has said, early diagnosis is essential to combat skin cancer disease. In the face of an increase in the number of cases diagnosed, the Cancer Foundation has called the alarm, considering that the current measures are clearly insufficient. To remedy this, it calls for, among other things, a more coordinated approach to promote change in our behaviour, including exposure to UV radiation; to organise efficient screening, possibly based on new technologies; to adopt regulations to counter misinformation; to organise care to ensure better accessibility; to review the division of tasks between different disciplines in terms of diagnosis, care and follow-up; to provide financial support for the search for more targeted therapies with fewer side effects; or to create a task force of experts and patient representatives. Minister, have you read the recommendations? Are you in favour of it? Are you considering new initiatives to combat the increase in the number of skin cancers? How many skin cancer patients have been recorded in Belgium over the last five years? How many people are screened each year? What scientific and technological investments have been made in our country over the past two years to combat skin cancer? Has there been a reduction in medical follow-up against skin cancer during the health crisis? Have treatment accessibility difficulties been identified? Other countries are implementing a national strategy, which has been identified by experts in this field. A decrease in the number of cases would be noted. In Belgium, is there a national, comprehensive and coordinated strategy of this kind? Have you recently had discussions with your counterparts in the federated entities on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u66	Mr Minister, the Foundation against Cancer sees the number of cases of skin cancer rising spectacularly and attracts the alarm bell. Excessive sunbathing and excessive use of the solarium remain the main causes of skin cancer. Skin cancer is also the most common cancer in our country. It is 40% of the diagnosis. The Cancer Register Foundation predicts that by 2030 there will be 77.000 cases of skin cancer in Belgium. That's not nothing. According to the Foundation, the current preventive actions are insufficient. They are asking for a broad national action plan against skin cancer. Targeting primary prevention may include a ban on solar banks. Secondary and tertiary prevention can be explored by exploring the possibilities for cost-effective skin cancer screening. They also want to have a critical review of the organisation of the care and carry out additional analyses on the costs of skin cancer care, the available knowledge among the public and the expertise and capacity of healthcare institutions. Minister, what measures will you take to counter the trend in the increasing number of skin cancers? The Foundation against Cancer is asking for a national action plan. Is that what you're gonna do? Will you, together with Mrs De Bleeker, look at the sale of solar banks and the operation of solar banks? I think there's a lot going wrong there. I have already asked a lot of questions and taken initiatives on this in the past. I believe that much can be improved in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u67	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u68	I have read the report of the Foundation against Cancer to which you refer and which was drawn up in collaboration with the cancer registry, which is responsible for the registration of new cancer cases in Belgium. The figures mentioned in the report are correct; the most recent figures in the cancer registry are those for 2018. The figures for 2019 and 2020 are not yet available due to the two-year data processing. The most common forms of skin cancer are basal cell carcinoma (BCC), spinocellular carcinoma (CSC) and melanoma. The reported figure of 43,745 cases in 2018 includes these three forms. The website of the cancer registry contains figures on the incidence of cancer in Belgium, except for basal cell carcinomas. For spinocellular carcinomas and melanomas, there were 10,549 new cases in 2016, 11,992 new cases in 2017 and 11,965 new cases in 2018. For basal cell carcinomas, approximate figures can be found in the Foundation's report against cancer. In 2016, approximately 27,000 new cases were registered, in 2017 about 29,000 and in 2018 about 31,000. It should be noted that basal cell carcinoma is the most common and least dangerous form of skin cancer. There are no data available on the number of people screened each year. With regard to access to diagnosis and treatment during the covid crisis, there are no specific data for skin cancer. The main findings of the report are as follows. About 40% of all cancers detected today are a type of skin cancer. As I have just said, in 2018 there were 43,745 in Belgium. Due to the ageing of the population, a significant increase was expected, but the increase is greater than expected. The cancer registry forecasts an increase of more than 77,000 cases in 2030. This increase is largely due to the behaviour of Belgians who regularly expose themselves to the sun. As the report mentions, solar bench sessions have become very fashionable and trips to sunny destinations were cheap. Climate change also plays a role. The increase in the number of sunny days means more exposure to sunlight. The decrease in the ozone layer resulted in exposure to higher UVI values. Most Belgians, more than 60% of the population, have clear skin, which makes it inappropriate for the excessive exposure observed during research. Outsiders, sportsmen and children are also at risk groups. Some factors cannot be controlled, but UV exposure and protection used during exposure play an essential role in the prevention of skin cancer. With regard to the recommendations of the Foundation against Cancer, a specific national plan for skin cancer does not seem appropriate at first glance. It does not seem effective to develop a national plan for each specific cancer or disease. However, it is true – and this report rightly recalls – that skin cancer is a challenge for health care and that prevention is an important aspect in the fight against skin cancer. This theme will therefore be included in the consultations with the federated entities in a specific working group on prevention within the framework of the Interministerial Conference in the coming months. A ban on solar banks, as proposed by the foundation and also by the Supreme Health Council, is not within my jurisdiction. It remains very important to inform citizens properly and to encourage them to take responsibility for their own health. Let me say, however, that a ban on solar banks also involves risks, such as a shift towards the use of solar banks in the private sphere. In the light of the report and taking into account the recommendations of the WHO, I will examine, together with the Minister responsible, how best to deal with them. With regard to the 2008 national cancer plan, I can inform you that most of the measures in this plan have been implemented and structured in the meantime. For scientific and technological investments, I can mention the pilot project of tele-expertise in dermatology under the INAMI which started in 2021. This is a new method by which the patient, the general practitioner and the specialist doctor exchange medical information and photos via secure communication channels. As part of Mobile Health, the SkinVision app has been certified. It allows an instant risk assessment for the main skin cancers, based on the photo taken with the smartphone of a stain on the skin. Based on this assessment, SkinVision recommends visiting a physician or not. Finally, awareness-raising campaigns within the framework of prevention fall within the competence of the federated entities. As I have already mentioned, the theme of skin cancer will be included in the consultations with federated entities within the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u69	Mr President, as the minister said, 40% of cancer cases are now skin cancers. The outlook for 2030 is not very positive, with 77,000 cases envisaged. Of course, it's dramatic. The problem of skin cancer is also a problem of prevention. The citizen forgets that he or she is at risk at every moment and that he or she can avoid this situation by adapting his or her behaviour and protecting himself or herself. I have no doubt, Minister, that it will be necessary to be careful, together with your counterparts in the federated entities, to have a truly preventive approach towards the citizens who forget that the sun is not necessarily their friend and that we must be careful about it. My dad was hit by skin cancer. He was, however, relatively cautious. Luckily, he made it through compassionate treatment, but I know the sequelae he kept from it. Despite an attitude that seemed to him to be the right one, I know that he would be much more careful today. He could have avoided all this suffering. Let's be vigilant! Unfortunately, this cancer is far more vicious than lung cancer, where every smoker knows what he or she is exposed to. Thank you for your answers, Minister. I will certainly come back to you once you have had the opportunity to discuss this issue with your colleagues from the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u70	Minister, I also thank you for your answers. I note that your attention is focused on this subject. I hear your explanations about the cancer plan, which you find inappropriate for a particular cancer. I can understand this approach and therefore that of working on cancers as part of a national plan and as part of your role as minister in a more comprehensive manner, with particular attention to the types of cancer that come first from this blacklist. I also hear that the topic is included in a working group and an interdepartmental conference to be held in the near future. All this reassures me on the follow-up to give, as does your positive echo. I'll come back to you, if we have time today, if not later, given that you have briefly addressed tele-expertise in dermatology.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u71	As an experienced expert, I am particularly concerned about the skin cancer problem, especially when it comes to young children, often young girls. I'm glad to hear you're going to be working around that very soon. There is still a lot to be done in relation to solariums, but that is indeed not your competence. We had to establish in the past that a lot of things went wrong. In fact, we have a motion for a resolution on this, and I shall continue to question Mrs De Bleeker. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u72	Skin cancer is the most common cancer in Belgium. 40% of the diagnosis is about skin cancer. According to the latest figures, Belgium has almost 44,000 cases in one year. The most common forms are malignant skin tumours, basocellular carcinoma, spinocellular carcinoma and to a lesser extent melanoma. The same figures show that one in five Belgians gets skin cancer before they are 75 years old. According to forecasts, there will be 77.000 cases a year by 2030. Skin cancer therefore deserves an action plan with measures and awareness raising. I am therefore grateful to you for taking this issue to heart. I'm very curious about the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u73	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Prévot's 55017948C and Mr 55017949C were postponed. Can you answer the following questions? The questions are piling up, Minister. We won't get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u74	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u75	Then we will have to take measures to make more time available. We have only been able to finish 12 of the 69 items on the agenda. We'll see you again on Thursday 15 July, but we won't get through it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u76	In general, I do not think you can complain about my willingness, Mr President, but I have to go to the nuclear cabinet later. I really need to leave now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic542x.u77	So be it. I thank all those present.
