ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u1	I would like to wish you all the best for 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u2	Mr President, I would like to make a small point. We have only one question-and-answer session per month. About 30 questions a month, so that's not a lot. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on Friday I was asked only six questions. On Monday, between 9 and 11 a.m., 16 questions were tabled, the last at 10:59 a.m. I would like to draw your attention to the work of the collaborators, whether in the offices or in the administration. My reflection is not on the number of questions, but on when they are introduced. We do not always have time to prepare complete answers. I wanted to report it. A session is little, but it leaves time to introduce the questions within a time frame sufficiently respectful of the work of the employees and the administration. I therefore ask colleagues to introduce their questions before the previous or last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u3	The Minister expressed her concern about the quality of the answers. Of course, we're from a receperiod, which may be related to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to convey my best wishes to you. My question, which dates from 8 December, is about hydrogen, which has the wind in the sails. The European Commission's Green Deal is also strongly committed to this. Your colleague, Mr Van der Straeten, also has high hopes for the development of a 'hydrogen backbone'. It must help industry to turn to a carbon-free economy. The industry is already using hydrogen today. Today, however, this hydrogen is almost completely grey. This means that it is produced from fossil fuels. In addition, a lot of CO2 is released, as is the case with large gas plants. In 2018, it was a total of 830 million tonnes worldwide. Therefore, green hydrogen, made from water and produced from renewable electricity, although a lot of renewable electricity, should be expected. The Federal Planning Bureau calculated that the Belgian production of hydrogen would triple the demand for electricity in our country by 2050. There is also a serious cost involved. Between the two types of hydrogen is the so-called blue hydrogen. It is made of natural gas and therefore also leads to CO2 emissions. However, the industry has plans to collect and store CO2, but that process is not free of charge and it is not yet complete technically. That is why I have a number of specific questions for you. What is your view on the use of blue hydrogen in achieving European climate objectives? Do you think there is room for blue hydrogen despite the significant CO2 emissions? Secondly, the hydrogen hype is reminiscent of the excessive enthusiasm surrounding biomass and biodiesel with palm oil from a few years ago. These matters were first raised on the shield and then completely fell out of grace. Do you agree with me that we should be careful of over-shouting? Do you agree with me that it is important that all environmentally friendly technologies are given equal opportunities? Finally, producing green hydrogen costs a lot of renewable energy. How do you intend to respond to this? Isn't it better to use local green electricity directly as electricity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my very best wishes. I did not submit my question until yesterday, but it is not new. Last month, in the context of the Green Deal and the EU's relaunch plan, I asked you what your position was with regard to the principle of technology neutrality in the EU Member States' investment policies in order to achieve their climate objectives. You gave me a clear answer on the use of nuclear energy and generic fossil fuels. What is the position of this government on the use of derived fossil technologies, such as grey and blue hydrogen, and what is its position on this at international level, is not entirely clear to me. We are deeply concerned that the EU's hydrogen strategy reserves a place for grey and blue hydrogen. As a result, we risk remaining dependent on fossil gas for decades to come. Both grey and blue hydrogen are produced on the basis of fossil fuel, gas. Happy blue hydrogen does in theory capture the CO2 produced. I say, however, in theory. The technology for Carbon Capture and Storage is a very risky and expensive technology, which has not yet proven its effectiveness. According to the report by Corporate Europe Observatory (CEO), the EU hydrogen strategy has been written under the strong influence of the gas lobby to justify investments in the fossil gas sector for decades to come, e.g. the controversial gas pipelines, and also to continue subsidising taxpayers' money with EU money. Can you therefore explain your vision and position on the use of EU climate money for investments in grey and blue hydrogen and that of the government in this respect? This gives us a better understanding of the role Belgium plays in these discussions at EU level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u6	Mr President, Mr Raskin, Mrs Daems, hydrogen is a molecule that can be used as a raw material, as a fuel and as an energy vector. It doesn't emit CO2 when used and doesn't pollute the air. Moreover, it can play an important role in energy storage, in particular in the development of renewable electricity production that is not constant. That is why the European Union sees hydrogen as part of the solution to become climate neutral by 2050. You are right to point out the different forms of production of hydrogen. We have to recognise that production is currently based almost exclusively on fossil fuels, by steam reforming natural gas. Then we are talking about the so-called grey hydrogen, with CO2 emissions. That's not a sustainable story. For this reason, the European hydrogen strategy focuses primarily on renewable hydrogen and hopes that this approach will be mature by 2030 in order to be widely used, particularly in sectors that are difficult to decarbonise, where alternatives are not possible or exuberantly expensive. In addition, this strategy also recognises the role of other low carbon hydrogen technologies in transition and as a start-up of the logistics chain, including blue hydrogen. This is necessary in order to change existing hydrogen production, reduce emissions and improve the functioning of the market. My view on this is that I can support the European Commission's approach, but that we do have to work in a sensible way. I believe that priority should be given to energy efficiency and the further direct electrification of the various sectors. It is essential that hydrogen is used in the sectors for which there are no alternatives. After all, hydrogen production does not involve physics. For the same amount of power from windmills or PV panels, a battery-powered passenger car will drive almost three times as far as a car with a fuel cell. This is due to the low efficiency of hydrogen-powered vehicles and the electrolysis process to produce hydrogen compared to a battery. Also for heating the home, technology is difficult to compete with a heat pump on power supply. Where should hydrogen be used? As a raw material and in applications at high temperature in industry, as well as directly for the production of synthetic fuels for heavy goods traffic, shipping and aviation. When using blue hydrogen, it is also important to consider where CO2 capture plants make the most sense, where it is most cost-effective and where it can also be used in the longer term in sectors that are very difficult to decarbonise. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is also green-blue or turquoise hydrogen. It's obtained by not extracting CO2 but carbon from gas with pyrolysis, which is heating without oxygen. Although the technique is still in the demonstration phase, it has the advantage of producing a useful raw material alongside hydrogen, namely carbon, which is used in batteries, for example. In addition, pyrolysis on sustainably obtained biogas could lead to negative emissions in a further future. This is how we actively extract CO2 from the atmosphere. This is needed to stay well below 2°C warming. In addition, we are also looking at the possibilities of importing green molecules from countries with greater potential for the generation of electricity from renewable energy sources, which can thus produce green hydrogen at a lower cost. In short, hydrogen is a molecule with strengths and weaknesses, which can be produced in various ways. The aim will be to use these technologies intelligently and as cost-effectively as possible. For the policy choices to be made in this respect, we must inform ourselves as best as possible about system studies. It goes without saying that the Energy Minister is also in the process of doing so. Indeed, it remains important to look through the hype where hydrogen can make the greatest contribution to the transition to a carbon-neutral economy and to give the right incentives in a cost-effective way, so that hydrogen.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I'm just trying to sum it up. I understand that you support the European approach, but you prefer to focus on direct electrification as a priority and that you only see hydrogen as a second solution where there are no alternatives. In your opinion, the blue hydrogen should be used very carefully, possibly temporarily, as there is still CO2 emissions. I understand that from your comprehensive answer. We'll follow up on the file together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u8	Mr President, Minister, it is quite clear to us that only green hydrogen produced from renewable energy can have a place in the energy mix of the future. In your explanation, I have heard very little about the scaling up of green hydrogen that does not have the disadvantages of blue hydrogen. However, that seems logical, also from your point of view on cost efficiency. I am therefore disappointed in your answer, because you support the EU's approach to using blue hydrogen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u9	Madam Secretary, my best wishes for 2021. It was originally two questions. There's been a referral to you. They are the same questions on the same subject. The European Council reached agreement on an increased climate target for the European Union during the early hours of Friday 11 December 2020. It was agreed that by 2030 the EU will reduce greenhouse gas emissions on its territory by at least 55% compared to 1990. This is in line with the European Commission's proposal. Madam Secretary, you were insane. You were very pleased with the climate agreement reached. However, the Flemish minister of Environment and Energy reacted quite negatively to the social media. I quote: 'The demand for a fair distribution of efforts was not followed up. Flanders remains behind without any clear guarantees about the further development of the European increase in ambition. Not a good thing." Mrs Demir, of course, refers to the commitments made at the meeting with DG European Affairs on Monday 7 December 2020, where the European Council was prepared. The Flemish Government had only given a conditional agreement there. The Flemish government set conditions for cost-efficiency and international flexibility. The whole discussion focused on the issue of cost-efficiency, whether or not included in the conclusions of the European Council. In conclusion 14 we read: "The objective will be collectively achieved by the EU in the most cost-effective way possible. All Member States will participate, taking into account considerations of fairness and solidarity; no one will be left behind. The new 2030 target should be achieved in a way that preserves the EU's competitiveness and takes into account the different starting positions, specific national circumstances and emission reduction potential." In conclusion 17, we read: "The European Council invites the European Commission to examine how all economic sectors can best contribute to the 2030 target and make the necessary proposals, together with a thorough analysis of the environmental, economic and social impacts at Member State level, taking into account national energy and climate plans and considering existing possibilities for flexibility." These are the texts on which the exegetes must bow and have bowed, according to Mrs Demir and her party. This has already been demonstrated by the Prime Minister's debriefing on 16 December. For the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs, the phrase "as cost-effective as possible" and the phrase "in a way that takes account of emission reduction potential" seem to be insufficient. It is not enough as a guarantee and therefore not a correct translation of the Flemish conditions. According to the Prime Minister's debriefing report, Mrs Demir's party, the largest party in the Flemish government, wanted the emission reduction potential to be more closely linked to cost efficiency. This means that efforts must be made in particular there, particularly by those Member States that can reduce their harmful emissions most cheaply and quickly. They must make the greatest effort. That was the condition of the Flemish government for a fairer distribution of efforts. It is unclear to me whether the Flemish Government is satisfied with the text on flexibility. For her, this was mainly about the possibility for unsuccessful Member States to buy off their deficits, including through investments outside the EU. This is also important for promoting the innovation that Flemish companies are achieving in terms of emission reduction. I am somewhat adamant as the lawyer of the Flemish government, but the Flemish interest certainly supports the concerns of the Flemish government. In his debriefing, the Prime Minister stated more than likely that you will repeat here later that there was still contact with the Flemish Government during the discussions and that it has been possible to avoid excessive concessions to the Eastern European Member States, including financial compensation. According to the Prime Minister, the texts are clear and the concerns of Flanders have been met. Mrs. Khattabi, are you strong at exegesis? I was pretty strong at that in my education. However, there is also, of course, the future. That might be even more important. After all, then the monkey will come out of the sleeve. In May, the European Commission's spreadsheets and analyses would be passed on to the Member States. Then there must be an intra-Belgian conversation. Of course, the announced reform of the ETS will also play a role. A number of sectors from the current non-ETS may also be introduced into the system. This will have an impact on the ultimate objective for Belgium in the light of the joint European achievement of the objectives. I would add that Flanders was not alone in its concerns about cost efficiency. Nine Member States shared this concern. Moreover, if the target is to be distributed cost-effectively among the European countries, the Benelux countries should do a little less than the average in Europe, not unimportant. We are talking about the current method of calculation, with Mrs Demir's request for a reduction in emissions going up to about 43 %. The Flemish target is, as you know, at the moment about 35% by 2030. We will see the final figures in the coming months. Madam Secretary, how do you read the conclusions? Did you think that the concerns and conditions of the Flemish government were effectively met? What can be the next steps, in the coming months, both at European and Belgian level? Mr President, it would obviously be a good thing if we in this committee were to be kept proactively informed by means of reports and exchanges of views. With the system of questions and interplays we follow the facts quite frequently anyway. That also proves today's arrangement. Of course, it took place, but asking questions once a month is not always the most suitable formula to play briefly on the ball and watch claims evolve proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the question that is now being raised is indeed somewhat dated, because it has been held in between, but this is also the fault of Mr Ravyts, who would like to have an interplay on this subject, so that the subject could not be discussed earlier, for example in plenary. Of course, Mr Ravyts has been granted it, and I say this with all due respect. The question may be a bit dated, but the subject is not at all. I also refer to your happy tweet, 'habemus pactum', the words you used to announce that the federal government had endorsed the European climate ambition. I apologise for making the same story as Mr Ravyts in a way, but you did not mention that Flanders would only agree if the European Council, strictly speaking, did not take into account two important conditions, namely cost efficiency and international flexibility. That was the agreement within the intra-Belgian consultation shortly before that summit. We must at the very least state that the Flemish condition in the conclusion is open to interpretation. In my question, I have also taken up one of the conclusions verbatim. Mr Ravyts also read them a few moments ago. So I won't do that again. The point, however, is that this is not guaranteed, as Mrs Demir has also stated. I have a simple question. Madam Minister, can you assure me that the above passage, which is also one of the passages to which Mr Ravyts referred, actually meets the two strict Flemish demands of flexibility and cost-efficiency, as formulated in the intra-Belgian consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u11	Mr President, the European Council reached a historic agreement on the new European 2030 targets on the night of 10 to 11 December 2020. With the agreement, the European Union will assume its responsibilities and align the 2030 targets with the path towards a climate-neutral European Union by 2050. The European Union plays its leadership role at international level. I am pleased that many of our international partners take up the gauntlet and commit themselves to ambitious goals. That is absolutely necessary, because all reports indicate that warming is increasing. There are, for example, recent communications from the RMI that 2020 has been the hottest year ever since the start of Belgium and that ambitious action is urgently needed. As you know, the federal government, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region have long supported the European Commission's proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% at European level by 2030. In the course of the Belgian consultations on 7 December 2020, a compromise was finally found between all governments to enable Belgium to support the newly proposed European target of 59%. Indeed, there was agreement on two points which needed to be better reflected in the conclusions of the European Council, so that everyone in Belgium can subscribe to the new objective. The first point is that the distribution of objectives between Member States must also take into account cost-effectiveness and not just fairness and solidarity. The second point was that additional flexibility should be considered by the European Commission to support Member States in achieving their objectives. It is important to know that during the consultation on 7 December the Flemish Region proposed to ask for additional flexibility, without explicitly referring to international flexibility mechanisms, as this would exceed a red line of other governments in Belgium and would therefore not be part of a shared Belgian position. Moreover, the discussion at European level concerned a domestic objective to be achieved within the borders of the Union, thus excluding the use of international flexibility by definition. Prime Minister De Croo defended these two elements very strongly at the European Council and ensured that both points were better anchored in the final conclusions. Conclusion 14 explicitly states that Member States' reduction potential will be taken into account in achieving the objective. The cost-effective distribution to which reference is always made is the distribution that the economic models of the European Commission obtain on the basis of the respective reduction potential of the different Member States. In conclusion 17, it is further specifically stated that the European Commission should take into account concerns regarding the sharing of efforts, fairness and cost-effectiveness. With regard to strengthening flexibility, it was added that the Commission is invited to review the existing flexibility mechanisms. This is very important and opens the door to both strengthening the existing mechanisms, in particular trade between Member States within the non-ETS, which I believe can still be greatly improved, and introducing additional flexibility mechanisms that do not undermine climate ambition. The final text thus reflects Belgian concerns. It is important to look ahead now and defend our achievements. In conclusion 19, it is stated that the European Council will continue to discuss this issue and provide additional guidance. The Flemish Region has already called for coalitions with other Member States which also attach importance to cost-effectiveness and flexibility. A few years ago, in the initial negotiations, we worked well with countries like Denmark and the Netherlands to defend our interests. However, I think it is extremely important to realise that these countries are the pioneers within the Union and have been defending an ambitious 2030 target for a very long time, while Belgium hesitated and stayed behind and moved on from the European leading group. We must stop blowing cold and hot at the same time and once again become a reliable partner in order to fully defend our interests together with our allies, to make European climate policy a social and economic success while at the same time significantly improving the quality of the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u12	Madam Minister, first of all, I would also like to announce a motion linked to the interplay. I shall look at this very briefly in a moment. You have indeed done something about international flexibilisation. Apparently, and unfortunately this happens often, there is a difference between what was widely said in the Flemish Parliament and in the press. Mrs Demir has put forward the term 'international' quite clearly, but apparently that did not even come on the table on 7 December, because it simply cannot be done. I think it's important that you change that here. With regard to cost-effectiveness and the link to emission reduction potential, this remains a dime on its side. We will have to look at the additional flexibilisation mechanisms that will result in a review of the system over the next few months. Anyway, the next few months the monkey will come out of the sleeve, Europe will confess colour and everyone will eventually have to position themselves. Then I'll make a bridge to my motion of recommendation. We ask that at least at the next European summit in May 2021, in the intra-Belgian negotiations, and in the revision process around the National Energy and Climate Plan, the federal government uses a feasible and affordable impact for the Regions, especially in terms of cost efficiency. As has already been said, the federal government, within its powers, will also have to take more responsibility for achieving the objectives, without increasing the tax burden. You know what I'm talking about. I also found it regrettable that gas is accepted as a transition technology in the discussions within the European Council for the joint achievement of the climate objectives, but there is no nuclear energy. We regret that. For us, this is certainly also a transition technology. Mr Daems expressed her annoyance about this here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u13	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. As far as the CO2 reduction that is necessary and necessary is concerned, we must be ambitious, but it must also be feasible and affordable. That is what the Flemish government did in its coalition agreement. That is also the break with the past, to which you referred. Having said that, I do not wish to reopen a semantic debate on whether or not the conditions are fully enforced in the text. The Minister's cabinet was clear about that. I found the reaction of the federal level questionable. "There has been hard negotiations, even at night. And there has also been consultation between the Cabinets." All this may be true, but the fact that people negotiate at night does not necessarily mean that they win the negotiation. As you say, the conditions set by Flanders are better anchored according to the Prime Minister, while we are asking for very clear enforcement of the conditions. The fear we have can rightly be mentioned. You know Mr. Maron, I don't know if you know his cat too. When he had to represent this country on 17 December 2020 as President of the Environment Council, he sent his cat. He did not show up because he refused to express the position of Flanders and the two conditions that Flanders clearly stated. That says a lot, if not everything, Madam Minister, but things done do not happen again. It's 2021 and the big work is about to begin. We need to meet internally who's gonna do what. I hope for Flanders, where the industry and the SMEs, who create jobs for people and indirectly also provide prosperity in our region and are at home when enlargement takes place in our country, that we are moving towards achievable, realistic and affordable goals, just as the Flemish government agreement includes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u14	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Kurt Ravyts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Kurt Ravyts and the answer of the Minister for Climate, Environment, Sustainable Development and Green Deal, - having regard to the agreement reached on a binding EU target of a net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU of at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990; - having regard to the European Council's call for the inclusion and rapid adoption of the new objective in the proposal for a European Climate Law; - in view of the uncertainty, concern and uncertainty which, in view of the statements made by the Flemish Minister for Energy, the Flemish Government is present at the Flemish Government. the guarantees and implementation of the principles of cost-effective distribution (fair distribution of efforts) and possibilities for international flexibility (Conclusions 14 and 17 of the Euro Summit Declaration); - having regard to the fact that in Conclusion 14 of the Euro Summit Declaration on the textual anchoring of respect for the Member States' right to decide on their energy mix and to choose the most appropriate technologies to jointly achieve the 2030 climate target, no explicit reference is made to nuclear energy but to gas (as transition technology); asks the government - to use as a starting point in the intra-Belgian negotiations on the distribution of efforts and on the review of the Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan as a basis for a viable and affordable development for the regions when defining the concrete country and region-specific objectives at the next European Summit (e.g. on the issue of cost-efficient emission reduction potential), taking greater responsibility for the objectives to be achieved, including within federal powers, without increasing the tax burden on consumers and businesses; - urge future discussions in the European Council and with the European Commission to make explicit reference to nuclear energy as one of the transition technologies for the joint achievement of climate objectives." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Kurt Ravyts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr Kurt Ravyts and the response of the Minister of Climate, Environment, Sustainable Development and Green Deal, - having regard to the agreement reached on a binding European target for the net reduction of greenhouse gases emitted in the European Union of at least 55% in 2030 compared to 1990; - In view of the call made by the European Council for the new objective to be incorporated into the proposal for a European climate law and for it to be drawn up quickly; - In view of the uncertainty, concerns and lack of clarity which, taking into account the statements of the Flemish Minister of Energy, prevails within the Flemish Government with regard to guarantees and the definition of the principles of cost-effective allocation (fair allocation of efforts) and possibilities for international flexibilisation (Conclusions 14 and 17 of the Declaration of the European Summit); - In view of the fact that Conclusion 14 of the Declaration of the European Summit on the textual anchoring of respect for the right of Member States to decide on their own energy mix and to choose the most appropriate technologies with a view to jointly achieving the 2030 climate target, does not explicitly mention nuclear energy but gas (as a transitional technology); asks the government - To take as a starting point, within the framework of the determination of specific concrete objectives by country and region at the next European Summit, in the intra-Belgian negotiations on the allocation of efforts and within the framework of the revision route relating to the National Energy-Climate Plan, realistic and affordable implementation (in particular on the question of the potential for reducing emissions based on cost-effectiveness), greater responsibility being assumed, within the limits of the federal powers, for the objectives to be achieved, without increasing the tax burden on consumers and businesses; - To insist, in future discussions within the European Council and with the European Commission, that nuclear energy be explicitly mentioned as one of the transition technologies for the joint achievement of climate objectives." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Séverine de Laveleye. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my best wishes. I apologize for breaking into this committee like that. Madam Minister, on 10 December 2020 I received your answer to my written question on artificial grass fields, sprinkled with SBR rubber granulate. I would point out that you will be careful to ensure that the environmental aspect of these products is not overlooked during the European negotiations on dossiers relating to the problem of microplastics in the environment. Thank you for that answer, but I am still hungry when it comes to my specific questions. Today we know that this rubber granulate causes the soil to be polluted by the extraction of heavy metals such as zinc and all kinds of mineral oils contained in the dispersion agent, and that mass fertilizers of micro- and nano-particles spread and get into the soil and surface water. The most important thing is that the packs in the rubber granulate also involve a lot of health risks for those playing on the fields. The principle of caution seems to me to be more important, with all due respect, than to ensure that European meetings do not lose sight of the environmental aspect. Madam Minister, today we are basing ourselves all over Europe on the subject of artificial turf fields, sprinkled with SBR rubber granulate, purely on literature studies. Are you willing to launch an investigation, in collaboration with a university, into the annual impact on the environment in our country of artificial grass fields, sprinkled with rubber pellets? In this way, you might be able to carry out an invaluable study which could make the whole of Europe wiser. In addition to your colleague from Health, Frank Vandenbroucke, will you also engage with the relevant ministers of Sport and Environment in the regions and communities of our country? Do you have any idea when the running European file on packaging in rubber granulate, used in sports fields, will be completed? Can you give me an update today on the evolution and positions that have been taken at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u16	Mr Moyaers, in order to ensure a coherent regulatory framework, I am opting for an approach that includes environmental and health aspects for the use of materials containing substances of concern, such as the use of granules and litter on synthetic sports fields. We regret, however, that this approach was not adopted at European level. This was the reason for Belgium to vote against the European Commission's proposal on the REACH restriction to reduce the concentrations of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that were recently put to the vote. Our services explained in detail the elements of this issue in a reply to your recent oral question addressed to my colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, in December 2020. The Belgian REACH Committee (BRC) is the Belgian coordination body for the defence of the Belgian position in this dossier. My administration confirms the need to apply the precautionary principle in this dossier, in particular with regard to the carcinogenicity of the packs, but also with regard to the aspects of persistence and bioaccumulation derived from the microplastics in those granules. The conclusions of the Scientific Committees of the European Chemicals Agency will be published shortly on the issue of microplastics in the granules. They will form the basis for a discussion at an ad hoc meeting of the BRC, which is already planned. This brings me to your specific questions. Although my services give priority to this dossier and to its various environmental and health aspects, it does not seem appropriate to me to do a duplication of work on top of the work that has already been carried out or is still being carried out at European level. The research published by the RIVM (Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu) in February 2018, Exploring environmental effects of rubber granulate at artificial turf fields, is explicitly about the aspects. In addition, the European Commission recently informed us that ECHA is currently carrying out a number of evaluations in addition to those aimed at pack concentrations in microplastics in those materials, based on a mandate from the European Commission addressed to ECHA on 20 August 2017. My services hope that ECHA will publish the analytical results of these additional impacts during the first semester of 2021, followed by a public consultation and subsequent advice from the ECHA Scientific Committee. Within the BRC, it is necessary to reconcile the opinions on regional powers, in particular on sport, quality of the environment and the supervision of the municipalities, together with regional colleagues, in order to determine the Belgian position. I refer in particular to the regional ministers for the criteria for the end-of-waste phase for the allocation of specific uses for recycled materials. The BRC was informed of the specific legislation existing in Flanders regarding the use of tyre granulates on sports fields. As has already been said, Belgium has decided to vote against the proposal for restrictions on packs because of the lack of coherence and ambition in the proposal. The result of the vote is that the majority of the Member States agree. These measures are proposed by the European Commission on pack limits, which will therefore apply to the use of those products in sports fields and playgrounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u17	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that, through ECHA, Europe had asked for a written vote on the proposal for possibly stricter measures, in order, for example, to reduce the pack. Apparently, the Belgian REACH Committee, the BRC, has given a negative vote on the proposal, because it is not considered ambitious enough for Europe. This result will probably soon or already be published everywhere, but we also work at two different speeds in our country. For example, when one looks at the state governments, I believe that the noses in our country are not in the same direction everywhere. As far as stricter measures are concerned, in the South of our country the stricter European standard on packs has been used for some time, while Flanders is lagging behind. You are also actually saying that you do not think it is appropriate to walk in the footsteps of Europe and do duplication of work by carrying out a study. Moreover, what Europe is asking for seems to be an improvement, but by definition it is simply an empty box. Everything that Europe proposes is something that is already achieved in 95% of cases, so nothing really changes except in the minds of the people. As a federal minister, you can certainly play a role, on the one hand by putting the noses in the same direction throughout the country and, on the other hand, by starting a very innovative study, in collaboration with the university, on the impact of artificial grass fields on the environment. I can sum it up very simply: today used tyres are very toxic waste, but if they are shredded and scattered over an artificial turf field, it is recycled material. When these grains lose their resilience, they are once again highly toxic waste, but in the interim thousands or even hundreds of thousands of children and adults in our country can play on it. We should show a little more ambition in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u18	Mr President, Minister, on 11 December 2020, the European Commission issued a press release welcoming the political agreement reached by the European Parliament and the European Council on the Commission's proposal on the Fund for a fair transition as an instrument of European cohesion policy. This fund is a crucial instrument for implementing the European Green Deal and is a new instrument with a budget of €17,5 billion increased this summer. The aim is to meet the social and economic costs resulting from the transition to a climate-neutral economy through many activities, in particular to diversify economic activity and help people adapt to a changing labour market. There is now, among other things, the possibility to support investment in large enterprises in assisted areas on the basis of guidelines on regional State aid, for example to cope with job losses resulting from the transition. On the basis of the political trilogues, EU Member States should draw up territorial plans for a fair transition, indicating which areas are expected to be most affected by the green transition. Each Member State shall draw up the plans together with the relevant domestic partners and in consultation with the European Commission and ensure that these plans are consistent with the smart specialisation strategies and national energy and climate plans. Those national plans should then be approved by the Commission. What is the precise procedure in Belgium for drawing up these plans and the actions to be included in them? How exactly do these come about? What is the connection or overlap with the existing ERDF and ESF Plus programmes? What are the deadlines? What is the European agenda? When will intra-Belgian agreements be concluded? Madam Minister, I think yesterday evening has shown that it may not be that difficult, because there is an agreement on the European recovery plan. However, it was also said that there was no literal application of the European keys, otherwise it would have been even more out of proportion. I suppose there will also be a political agreement here who gets what from the JTF.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u19	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, Belgium submitted an application in 2020 for technical support for the preparation of the territorial plan to the European Commission for EUR 300 000 under the European Structural Reform Support Programme and the Technical Support Instrument. The European Commission received 17 applications from Member States. They were all approved. Both the federal government and the federated entities are involved in the file. However, the work on Belgian technical assistance is currently on hold, in which the European Commission calls on Belgium to take a decision on the geographical coverage of the territorial plan and thus on the aid from the Just Transition Fund. As you know, Belgium was mentioned in its part of the country report in the context of the European Semester Tournai, Bergen and Charleroi in the province of Hainaut. However, Member States are free to derogate from and extend the report, both geographically and in terms of scope. In order to make effective use of the EUR 300 000 allocated support, Belgium needs to take a decision as soon as possible. In the event of further delay, our country risks losing the funds already allocated, with the European Commission being forced to spend the money elsewhere. The other Member States have already completed their territorial plan with the help of the technical assistance they have obtained. The link with the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund Plus is twofold. JTF resources can be integrated into a programme supported by the ERDF and the ESF Plus. The resources of the Just Transition Fund may, on a voluntary basis, be strengthened with additional funding from the ERDF and the ESF Plus. The new multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 also includes a new partnership agreement, which will have to explain how the structural funds will be distributed between the regions and set out the investment strategies. The Belgian Partnership Agreement was to be submitted to the European Commission in June 2021. It is important to integrate the use of resources from the JTF. The decision on geographical coverage shall preferably be taken well before that date in order to continue with the technical support. The role of the federal government is further twofold. On the one hand, the federal administration acts as the national coordinating authority, the national contact point for the European Commission, and on the other hand, the Territorial Just Transition Plan, if approved by the Commission, will also give access to the other Pillars of the Just Transition Mechanism that can finance activities falling within federal competence. The federal government will thus be able to strengthen the actions of the Regions to support the elected districts in their transition to climate neutrality. Proper coordination of regional and federal actions in the elected areas is imperative, with the involvement of the federal government in drawing up the territorial plan. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the plans must be consistent with the National Energy and Climate Plan to which the federal government is, of course, also involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u20	Madam Minister, I think my oral question is very relevant. Your explanation was technically good and I can do something with this. It is clear that there should be an agreement on geographical coverage, preferably as soon as possible, as the Belgian partnership agreement should be there by June 2021. We will certainly come back to this in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the report of the NGO WWF, Belgium alone consumes an area of more than 10 million hectares to produce seven basic products (soja, cocoa, beef and leather, palm oil, coffee, hevéa, wood and paper), almost half of which are located in countries at high or very high risk of deforestation. Soybean wins the "palm" – if I can afford this bad pun – with the largest footprint with 1.3 million hectares needed in the countries concerned. For the record, forests are home to 80 per cent of the global terrestrial biodiversity. Deforestation and land-use change account for 12 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. The link between biodiversity protection and the fight against climate change is therefore clearly expressed here. At European level, things seem to be moving forward. Parliament called for an ambitious law. This request was supported by more than one million European citizens in the context of the Together4Forests campaign, including 87,000 Belgians whom you met with the representative. You recently announced that Belgium will join the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership, which we welcome. Just a few months ago, I had asked your predecessor about this, but I had not been able to get a concrete answer. Belgium had also already committed itself in 2014, when it signed the New York Declaration on Forests, to eradicate deforestation in most of its supply chains by 2020. But here we are already in 2021 and deforestation is still part of our imported products, with the figures you know. Madam Minister, in concrete terms, what are Belgium's obligations and prohibitions in relation to imported deforestation that we can draw from this new partnership? How can you guarantee that this new agreement will have a real impact on the fight against imported deforestation, contrary to the New York agreements? You mention in your policy note the development of the Beyond Food strategy, in connection with imported deforestation. What is the timetable for the implementation of this strategy and how do you envisage it in collaboration with other federal ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the countries in the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership have advanced the implementation of the New York agreements, although unfortunately targets have not been achieved. Belgium signed the level of ambition set for 2025 on 8 December, which will be officially communicated by the ADP in the coming days. This voluntary partnership is a grouping of countries that share a political vision for action on imported deforestation. There are no legal obligations or prohibitions arising therefrom. There is a moral commitment to implement the content of the new declaration by participating in the working groups, diplomatic actions and strategic reflections of the partnership. These countries are at the forefront of understanding the sectors and impacts of imported deforestation and have contributed greatly to the Commission's communication on this subject and to contacts through their embassies with critical countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia and Brazil. Belgium is a country with a large open economy and exports several products affected by imported deforestation. Given our role in the European market and the efforts to undertake the necessary transitions, joining the partnership will serve as a considerable lever for the necessary dialogue with producer countries, other consumer countries and the sectors concerned. This accession should therefore facilitate the implementation of the Beyond Food strategy. At the end of December, I received the draft Federal Strategy Beyond Food drawn up by the Working Group on Social Responsibility of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development. This draft strategy will form part of the federal sustainable development plan. I intend, now, to initiate contacts with the firms concerned. This strategy would cover a period up to 2030. The administrations concerned are, in fact, already actively working on the various elements of this strategy. Membership in the partnership is one of its recommendations. By January 2022, we should have a formal structure for monitoring and coordinating Beyond Food's actions. Task forces for each of the priority raw materials should be launched to prepare partnerships of the Beyond Chocolate type. Specific federal measures and actions will be identified for each of the strategic areas, in particular public procurement, taxation and access to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is gratifying to note that things are moving forward both at European and Belgian level, and that within the government there is an ambitious start to consultation on a plan. However, I would like to draw your attention to elements that we believe are really important. You are talking about a moral commitment within the framework of the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. Unfortunately, we know that moral commitments do not always bear the fruits that we hope for. We will therefore have to go very quickly beyond the moral commitments of the various stakeholders. Indeed, at some point, commitments must become binding and set targets for themselves. You're talking about a formal monitoring structure that should be in place in 2022. This is really the lever to move forward. It must be possible to put under the nose of stakeholders how to move forward and how not to move forward. As is well known, a few years ago France adopted a strategy against imported deforestation that does not yield the desired results. There must be significant constraints, particularly in the commercial and production sectors in general. We therefore encourage you to equip yourself with the necessary tools if we want to achieve and achieve effective results before 2030, if possible. We can no longer afford to be an economy open to the world and at the same time a country that still contributes to this point to deforestation in fragile countries. It's no longer possible, and we're counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u24	Question No 55012035C by Mrs Nawal Farih was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u25	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, when you presented your policy note, you stated, with respect to the National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP), that an inventory of all existing and future measures relating to this plan was under way and that an administrative and political monitoring of the progress made should be established. The adaptation of the Belgian PNEC was essential following the remarks made by the European Commission, whether they concern the lack of ambition or the lack of integration between the federal level and the federated entities. Minister, could you please clarify the status of the inventory of existing and future measures related to the NCP? As far as monitoring is concerned, can you give us further details on the methodology? What is his status? What are the positive elements of this monitoring? Have any difficulties been encountered? As regards the lack of integration of the PNEC highlighted by the European Commission, what steps have been taken with the federated entities? Finally, what method will be used to meet the common objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u26	I don't see Mrs. Marghem. We'll wait a few minutes, but it's quite unusual. I should've been warned. She would chair the Finance Committee? [[...]] Mrs Marghem, we had suspended our work especially for you but do not abuse it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I wish you all the best in 2021, especially to you and your family, and to everyone you love, hoping that this year will give you the opportunity to achieve and succeed what you want. Your portfolio is limited to the environment and sustainable development. This situation, coupled with the extensive regionalization of our country, makes you dependent on many other federal and regional ministers, as you know. In addition, you can focus heavily on one topic – which is an asset – the global goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Ultimately, this is the only objective on which, probably, everyone is increasingly and increasingly agreeing. In this context, you said that you were programming a "climate government". Could you tell us how you initiated the federal consultation work to invite your colleagues to develop a climate roadmap based on their respective competencies? Have you ever organized meetings? If so, which ones? Who were the ministers present? What were the results, and on what timing? Have you set a time frame for bringing these specific projects together for each subject, in order to account for the forward-looking effects on the greenhouse effects, which could help you draw a path that corresponds to the new European requirements in this field? On the other hand, according to the same criteria – type of meetings, timing, possible trajectory – what are the results or, in any case, the aspects discussed with your regional counterparts? Finally, what exchanges do you have with the European Commission in the context of raising climate ambitions and the requirements to be defined by Belgium? Pending your answer, I would also like to ask you another question. I imagine, Mr President, that it has been attached to those which make up point 7. I assume I can put it down?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u28	No, she wasn't joined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u29	All right. So I'll put it down later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u30	For the time being, we are sticking to the joint questions of Mr Bombled and yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u31	Thank you for your wishes. I share them with you, especially in matters of health, for you and your loved ones, Mrs Marghem. The inventory of existing federal measures included in the NWMP is already available. However, as you know, a number of these policies and measures are described fairly vaguely in the NECP and require further detail, particularly in terms of timing and concrete stages of implementation, as well as budget. Together with the ministers of the federal departments concerned, I wish to speed up the implementation of the measures already included in the PNEC and to begin exploring the potential of the new actions envisaged in the various fields: the development of offshore wind energy, public investment, tax reform etc. The Federal Task Force established for the development and follow-up of the federal component of the PNEC is currently being mobilised to accelerate its implementation. One of its priority tasks is to refine the description of policies and measures, and to develop monitoring indicators. Each of the FPS concerned was also asked to study, for its areas of competence, the policies and measures currently included in the NCP, and to evaluate them in the light of the actions provided for in the Government Agreement and reflected in the declarations and policy notes. This work should enable us to have in the near future a better idea of the policies and measures that should be strengthened and adjusted as a matter of priority. Particular attention will be paid to the timetable for implementation and the budget required. The recent agreement, reached at European level, on strengthening the 2030 targets, constitutes an additional ground for revision of the NECP, in the light of these new objectives and the existing analyses. The European Regulation Governance of the Energy Union and Climate Action also provides for Member States to submit to the European Commission a draft revision of the PNEC in June 2023 and a final version of the revision one year later. The Climate Change department has recently awarded the contract for the impact assessment study of federal climate policies and measures to a consortium of consultants gathered around the ICDD / Vito tandem. The aim of this study is in particular to carry out an updated impact assessment of existing policies and measures, including socio-economic impacts, and to develop monitoring methodologies and indicators for new policies and measures. The first results on updating the impact of existing measures should be available by April this year and can be communicated to the European Commission as part of the biennial report on the implementation of policies and measures. Work on the development of methodologies for new measures is expected to continue throughout 2021. This work will be carried out in collaboration with the various federal departments concerned, which are closest to the implementation of the measures in question and which will be able to provide all the required data. The representatives of the Regions will also be involved in this exercise through a committee accompanying the study, so that possible synergies or interactions with regional measures can be adequately taken into account. So far, it has not been possible to reach an agreement with the federated entities within the National Climate Commission to improve the PNEC and to respond to the recommendations of the European Commission. Pending a possible agreement to strengthen the NECS, I intend to strengthen the federal component through an action plan to make optimal use of all the levers available within the framework of federal jurisdiction. Given the cross-cutting nature of climate policy and the various policy areas involved, it is important that the government as a whole mobilize around this strengthening of the federal component of the NECP. I would also like to stress the importance of close cooperation between all the competent authorities, in particular for the implementation of the so-called inter-federal measures of the PNEC. I intend to work constructively with all the authorities concerned to implement and strengthen it in a vision of complementarity of our respective competences and mutual strengthening. Marghem, to answer your question about the climate government, the idea is to set up thematic governments on the issue of gender or climate. A first meeting had been convened by the Prime Minister in December. It must have been cancelled. The first meeting was to agree on the methodologies to be used in these thematic governments. As far as I am concerned, the idea is to implement the majority agreement, which states that there will be monitoring with short- and medium-term objectives for each of the departments. As soon as this is possible and the Prime Minister can bring this thematic government together, the idea is to put on the table a road map negotiated with my colleagues. Since this first stage has not yet been exceeded, I cannot tell you more about the operationalization of work at the federal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. According to the European Commission, the PNEC lacked coherence, efficiency, ambition and synergies. I think that a timetable will have to be drawn up very soon, as well as a budget. Quantitative targets will need to be clarified or revised in the light of the rise in climate ambition by 2030. If an action plan is needed, the cross-cutting nature of the plan and the coherence between the different levels of power will be paramount. I mean, for now, there is no agreement between the federal government and the federated entities. I think it will be up to all stakeholders to get around the table to find this agreement that is important for Belgium at European and climate level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I welcome and take advantage of your answers to my colleague's questions – we are part of the same group and share the same concerns – and of the fact that the studies are commissioned from IFDD and VITO and that the task force and the accompanying committee are operational and that we can hope for April to have a document on which to base ourselves in order to move forward in order to increase the requirements within the framework of European demand at Belgian level. At the Belgian level, it's more complicated – as you know and as you will know as well as I do quite quickly. We have to agree on this, and you have said it very clearly, there is no agreement with the federated entities in the National Climate Commission at the moment. It is a difficult stumbling block that needs to be overcome at one time or another and that will mix up with other work such as burden sharing, for example, 2020-2030. I'm not worried about this right now, but what worries me a little bit more is – although the idea is interesting – the idea of a thematic government. It's basically as if you didn't have personal freedom of action to get your colleagues on climate issues, each in their skills, to ask them to think about a roadmap. So everyone is going to wait for the eventual availability of a prime minister who is obviously at his task, a multifaceted task, very diverse and very busy. It is important – it seems to me and it is not a board but a request – that you can stand out by taking lead for your skills knowing that your skills are cross-cutting and that you are free to ask questions, to organize meetings, to ensure that you are the driving force behind this cross-cutting climate concern with each of your colleagues. That's what I wish you could have done. In any case, I will come back to you to ask if you have been able to ask for them and what their answers have been.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u34	Mr President, I would like to add to that. When I hear Ms. Marghem's reply, I realize that I have not been complete and that may lead to a misunderstanding. As soon as I took office, I sent a letter to all my colleagues asking them, for each of their skills, what measures they were taking. So there is a dynamic between me and my colleagues. The idea and the will were good that everyone could have a global view. I'm not waiting for this climate government to move forward, but as you asked me about it, I probably should have started with it. On the other hand, not all my colleagues have responded, but those who have done so already have a very precise view and have provided very high quality answers – I take this opportunity to say it here and to say that it has been appreciated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for this very important addition. I will come back to you with a specific question to ask you which colleagues have answered you and what they have answered to see how the case is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u36	Minister, revenues from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances fund Belgian climate policy. In your political guidance note presented last December, you stated that the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with the federated entities was a priority and that contacts with your regional counterparts had been made in order to agree on a negotiating agenda on the subject. My questions are as follows. Has this negotiating agenda been set? If so, could you clarify that? If not, what difficulties may be encountered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u37	Mr Bombled, you rightly stress the importance of emissions allowances for climate policy. Electricity producers, industry and aeronautics companies buy emission allowances under the EU ETS (emissions trading system) system to meet their European obligations. The price of these emission allowances depends in particular on the level of ambition of the climate targets. We note that this price has increased from 25 to 35 euros per tonne of CO2 over the last two months. This is primarily due to the decision of the European Council to raise the climate target from -40 to at least -55 % by 2030 and to the market, which anticipates the reduction of emission space in the ETS system. As a result, the expected income for Belgium for the year 2021 has increased from more than 300 million euros to more than 400 million euros. The distribution of these revenues for 2021 and subsequent years up to 2030 depends on the key allocation set out in a cooperation agreement between the four entities, which is yet to be negotiated. At the meeting of the National Climate Commission on 3 December, which I organised, the commitment was made to negotiate this political agreement for the autumn of 2021. At the same time, I requested and obtained a negotiating mandate from the federal government to develop a single solution for the year 2021, so that all entities would continue to benefit from emissions revenue to finance their climate policy. I expect a response from several federated entities on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u38	Thank you for the answer, minister. It is true that over the years the purchase of allowances at auction has gradually become the rule. In a way, the polluter pays principle is put into practice. I hear the agenda of negotiations with federated entities. They are in progress, but an agreement is not expected until the fall of 2021. The one shot for the year 2021 would still have to be solved as quickly as possible, if we do not yet have the distribution key for the years 2021 to 2030. I will certainly ask you for the progress of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u39	Minister, Climate Change Performance Index (CCPI) on climate protection performance of 57 countries and the European Union, published on 7 December 2020 – this is brand new! – attests to Belgium's significant decline in the ranking in the fight against climate change. Thirty-first two years ago, thirty-fifth last year, our country is currently ranked 40th in this ranking of some 60 countries. This is due to the assessment of its greenhouse gas emissions, its renewable energy production, its use of energy and its assigned climate policy. According to Noé Lecocq, responsible for climate and energy at Inter-Environnement Wallonia, one of the reasons for this assessment could be identified as "the absence of emission reductions over several years". Minister, my questions are as follows. Can we benefit from your return as to the reasons explaining Belgium's position in this index 2021? To change the trend highlighted by the indexes of recent years seems to require long-term environmental and climate policy, a principle that should be incorporated into the post-covid-19 recovery plan. Perhaps it is too early to ask you, Madam Minister, but I am still doing this: have discussions with the Secretary of State for Recovery, with the other members of the government, and with the governments of the federated entities, on possible structural environmental and climatic aspects of the recovery plan, particularly from a budgetary point of view, been discussed? If so, can you inform us? Finally, can you inform us about the state of play of the cooperation agreement on achieving the 2030 climate and energy goals, which was described as "negotiating without delay" in your policy note?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u40	Mr Senesael, I wish you a very happy year and I would like to say a little bit about it; I would like to express to you my full solidarity following the news a few weeks ago; I had not yet had the opportunity to do so. Like you, Mr Senesael, I regret that Belgium has once again lost five places and is only in the fortieth position in this ranking. In particular, we are ahead of Brazil and Romania, which are not known to lead a strong climate policy. This classification was based on data on energy consumption, renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions for 2018. These data account for 80% of the score, while the remaining 20% are based on a qualitative assessment of climate policy. In other words, the bad score is a legacy and it is far too early to see the strengthening of federal climate policy produce effects at the ranking level. This does not detract from my motivation to make every effort to ensure that Belgium achieves a better score in the years to come. It is possible to build on cooperation and an effective policy between the various ministers responsible for energy and climate in our country. We can improve our score on many indicators by reducing greenhouse gas emissions faster, investing more in renewable energy and reducing energy consumption. It should be noted, however, that the methodology used is somewhat unfavourable to small countries with a large industrial sector. To the extent that our energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions per capita are above average, we are therefore going to achieve even longer less good results for two indicators. With regard to the recovery plan, Europe is very clear: at least 37% of investments must benefit the climate and the plan must contain reforms to address, in particular, the weaknesses of our climate, environmental, mobility and fiscal policy. We are all on the same line in this regard within the federal government, and in particular with the Secretary of State for Recovery. In this context, I will also insist with my colleagues in the weeks and months to come that the green part of the investment plan goes beyond the minimum threshold imposed by Europe. Indeed, it is now clear that if we wanted to, we could devote the entire European budget to useful green investments, such as the renovation of buildings or a better infrastructure for sustainable mobility, as many investment projects are introduced. Finally, as mentioned in response to another question raised today, our will is to conclude a new cooperation agreement before the Climate Conference to be held in early November in Glasgow. It was a commitment made by each of the entities during the meeting of the National Climate Commission on 3 December that was convened under my chairmanship. For this year 2021, the Presidency has moved to the Walloon Region, which means that the negotiations will be conducted under the leadership of the Walloon Minister responsible for Climate, but of course I will be fully committed to its completion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u41	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my sincere and warm thanks to the Minister for her delicate attention to me, which is of particular interest to me. Minister, of course, I was able to see and understand with you that the score was a legacy. However, everything needs to be done – and you have made it clear and I thank you – to improve this ranking. Therefore, the synergies to be implemented must be with the federated entities. The recovery plan is, of course, an important cornerstone and must contain reforms to improve climate and environmental indicators and we know that we can count on your determination to achieve your goals. On the other hand, I can only commit you, invite you and collaborate with you to pursue ambitions and commitments upwards in order to achieve or exceed the objectives set. To come back and conclude the reply with an element developed in the previous questions, it seems to me that the thematic governments referred to can contribute effectively to achieving these different objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u42	Mr. Chair, Minister, the OECD report released on December 7, 2020 points out that approximately 70% of fine particulate emissions from thermally driven vehicles are due to the wear and tear of brakes, tires and road coverings. The report also states that emissions from this type of phenomenon are likely to increase in the coming years, along with the increase in demand for urban passenger movements, which is expected to double by 2050. It is now established that exposure to fine particles can be associated, inter alia, with the development of cardiovascular, respiratory and developmental conditions, thereby contributing to an increased risk of mortality. Minister, we know your willingness to reduce the exposure of our fellow citizens to fine particles. Can we have your feedback on the phenomenon mentioned in the OECD report? Has it or will it be discussed with the Minister in charge of Mobility and with the heads of the federated entities in order to see how these different potentials can be improved? Your policy brief and policy brief mention a number of ambitions to promote the use of low-emission motor vehicles. For its part, the OECD report draws attention to the fact that, while the use of electric vehicles is now widely regarded as an effective solution to reduce exhaust emissions, it does not offer a substantial advantage in terms of reducing emissions from the wear and tear of brakes, tires and road wear. Can we know, on the one hand, whether the ambitions I have just mentioned concern electric vehicles and, on the other hand, whether they take account of emissions not due to exhaust gases? Finally, the OECD report mentions a series of policy responses to this issue. Can we have your point of view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u43	Dear colleague, I thank you for bringing this report to the fore and for drawing my attention to it. In general, I share the concern in the report that non-exhaust emissions contribute to air pollution. European regulations impose increasingly strict limits on exhaust emissions and better implementation of these limits. In terms of emission proportions, we can consider that the share of non-exhaust emissions, especially those you refer to, which is associated with brake and tire wear, will represent an increasing proportion of the total emissions associated with the use of a vehicle. During the discussions on the revision of the Euro standards which will begin this year, in consultation with my colleague from Mobility and my colleagues from the Regions responsible for this matter, I will ensure that I support an ambitious framework for non-exhaust emissions and encourage the development of solutions to reduce these emissions. I have not yet discussed this issue with my colleague Minister responsible for Mobility, as regards your second question, or with the heads of the federated entities, but this will be discussed at the Belgian position coordination meetings on the new Euro standards. The emissions of electric vehicles are part of the general zero emission problem, even if they are not the main emitters to be targeted as a matter of priority to date. As far as tyres and roads are concerned, road users' safety should be ensured by optimising the adhesion of tyres to new road coverings while minimising the sound emissions of tyres. An existing label, as set out in Regulation 2017/1369, is being revised and will soon be adopted. In a non-exhaustive way, I will support at European level the development of an ambitious framework for non-exhaust emissions and will encourage the development of solutions to reduce them. As for the political recommendations that you are referring to, I analyse them with my services to see how they can be implemented, before I say so here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your interest in this issue, which, over time, may become increasingly important. I thank you, of course, for the follow-up with your colleagues, mainly those of the Mobility of federated entities. I stress the ambitious framework that you want to set aside for the elements contained in the question. I look forward to seeing in the coming weeks the political answers you will have to this problem. With your permission, I will allow myself to ask you again later. Thank you again for your involvement in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u45	Minister, in the Global Statistics Partnership's report, it is noted that the evolution of the amount of electronic waste generated annually worldwide follows a rising trend: 44.4 million tonnes of waste were estimated in 2014 to reach 53.6 million in 2019 and 74.4 million tonnes announced for 2030. This phenomenon is accompanied by an increase in the quantity of waste released into nature. These are often composed of toxic or dangerous substances (mercury, brominated flame retardant, chlorofluorocarbons, hydrochlorofluorocarbons, etc.).Their release poses risks to the environment, climate and human health. According to this report, the mass of electronic waste produced in Belgium in 2019 is estimated at 234 tonnes. Minister, can we have your feedback on this issue? I was, along with other colleagues, on the initiative of a motion for a resolution on the circular economy. It is known that the planned obsolescence seems to be a factor in increasing the number of electronic waste in the world and in Belgium in particular. Have there been any exchanges within the government to counter this phenomenon? Are initiatives and commitments envisaged at national and European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u46	Mr Senesael, in fact, the model of linear production and consumption, i.e. extracting, producing, consuming, discarding, is responsible for major social and environmental impacts: the use of resources, greenhouse gas emissions, pollution and the production of more or less hazardous waste. In order to act at the very beginning of the production chain, my colleague from Health and I have, from the very beginning of our taking up office, transposed into Belgian law delegated Directives 2020/360-361 and 364-366 limiting the use of certain dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. The transposition had been delayed since the previous government was in day-to-day business. For us, the fight against electronic waste is part of a broader policy of waste reduction and resource efficiency. To do this, I will propose, in consultation with my federal colleagues, a plan on the circular economy. We are working on this with my colleague Dermagne. In addition to the action of the Regions, our objective will be to activate the federal levers to promote a transition to a circular economy that maintains the longest running materials in the economic circuit. The federal plan will focus on a consistent product policy, product standards and longer product lifespan. I am thinking in particular of the criteria of repairability for specific products in the fight against programmed obsolescence or the introduction of a longer legal guarantee period. The European Union has set ambitious targets for the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment in accordance with EU Directive 2012/19. At the international level, the Union has also played a key role in the development of guidance under the Basel Convention on the environmentally sound management of wastes and capacity-building, including on electronic waste. The Union also contributes to initiatives supporting sound e-waste management, including the SWITCH Africa Green programme, which supports business-led green economy initiatives, including e-waste management. Horizon 2020 – E-waste Implementation Toolkit with Africa in 2017 aimed to support recycling strategies in metropolitan areas of Europe and Africa. Initiatives such as Close the Gap and WorldLoop are aimed at responsible end-of-life treatment of computers provided by donation programs. The WEEE Directive also contains criteria guiding law enforcement authorities to distinguish between used EEAs and waste in order to combat illegal transfers. With my administration, I am obviously this European issue very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u47	Minister, thank you for this very precise and comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank you, together with your colleague, for taking the initiative to transpose the European directive into Belgian law. You have pointed out a fairly substantial delay explained in part by the current affairs of the previous legislature. I am also very pleased with your involvement and your willingness with your colleague Dermagne to implement this circular economy plan. I am also of the opinion that it is important to activate the levers that are at your disposal and that can be activated at the federal level to promote, on the one hand, the relevance and performance of the circular economy in this field, and, more particularly, the attention that can be devoted to the treatment of electronic waste. I therefore believe that your willingness to achieve tangible results reinforces us in the idea that you will continue an interesting work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u48	Mr. President, Madam Minister, a study published in the scientific journal Nature Ecology & Evolution on November 2, 2020 raises the negative impact of sources of artificial night light on wild organisms and ecosystems, in particular because of the central role played by luminous regimes in determining the moment of biological activity. This study, which builds on the results of 126 scientific publications, each focusing on a limited number of living species, points out that "artificial light emitted at night particularly alters the physiology and behaviour of organisms by affecting hormone levels, the onset of daily activity, diet and phototaxy, but generally with a less significant impact on responses of particular communities, such as abundance and species richness". Kevin J. Gaston, one of the authors, adds that the effects of this light pollution can be observed at different levels in the affected ecosystems: in the microbes, the plants whose seasonal cycles are disturbed, insects and animals. Minister, can we have your feedback on the results of the study? Can you inform us about the impact of light pollution on biodiversity in Belgium? Are there any initiatives to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u49	Mr President, Mr Senesael, I share your concern and your analysis. Light pollution has a major impact on biodiversity, species and ecosystems. However, the management of this problem is the responsibility of the Regions. I can therefore only refer you back to my fellow Ministers of the Environment at regional level. I would be curious to know what answers they will bring to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. With my colleagues, I will certainly address this question to your regional counterparts. We will keep abreast of the follow-up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u51	Minister, a study of children living in Strasbourg has shown that there are large amounts of nanoparticles in their bodies. The study links the presence of these particles in children's organisms to the proximity of a road axis. The toxicity of these particles is now recognized: they significantly increase the risk of cancers, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory problems and can be transmitted from mother to fetus. One of the main causes of nanoparticle emissions is air pollution from diesel engines. Minister, can you inform us about the impact of this environmental phenomenon on Belgian territory? Are there any initiatives to combat it? In your policy note, you announced that you wanted to study, together with your competent colleagues, "the presence on the market of affordable cars whose life cycle shows as small an ecological footprint as possible (...), so as to extend the 'zero emission' standard on site to 'total emission footprint clearly reduced' per vehicle". Can you inform us of the progress of this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u52	Mr Senesael, in Belgium, the European Environment Agency calculated that concentrations of fine particles had caused the premature death of 7,600 people, that nitrogen dioxide would be responsible for 1,600 premature deaths and ozone of 180 – a total of 9,380 people for these three pollutants in 2016. These estimates can be compared with Sciensano mortality figures. The federal authority contributes to the effort to reduce emissions in the three regions through different policies: product standards, particularly those for heating appliances; implementation of the Eco-Design Regulation, etc. At European level, my administration is also involved in the development of new standards for vehicles, which are more representative of actual operating conditions. With regard to the federal taxation of transport or fuels or the supply of rail transport, I refer you to my colleagues in Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem, and Mobility, Georges Gilkinet. Finally, I look forward to hearing the results of an ongoing study of the SPF Economy, before taking further action with my colleague in charge of economic analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you pointed out at the beginning of the meeting, some questions are coming late enough, so you do not always have the time and time to provide all the details. I'm well aware of that. Having said that, I will particularly consider two aspects of your answer. First, for 2016, you were talking about 9,380 people who died because of these three pollutants. This impressive figure is almost equivalent to that of the first wave of the covid-19 epidemic. In addition, you mention an ongoing study within the FPS Economy. I know we're not going to ask you questions now. However, it would be interesting, at a future meeting, to see what this study is all about and to know the expected results and the timeline to determine how it can then be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 8 January the European Commission published its second report on the prospects for clean air. Its main conclusion is that the full implementation of the targets set by the 2016 Directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants – known as the "NEC Directive" – could reduce premature deaths due to air pollution by around 55% in 2030 compared to 2005. While "since 2000, the European Union's GDP has increased by about 30%, emissions of the main air pollutants have decreased from 10% to 70%, according to the pollutant", says the Commission, which considers that the situation is still "particularly serious" in urban areas, where a majority of Europeans live. In particular, the Commission points out that 22 Member States, including Belgium, have not taken the appropriate measures to meet their commitment to reduce ammonia emissions under the NEC Directive. The report, which makes recommendations based on pollutants, explains that reducing ammonia emissions requires action on agriculture and, in particular, animal feed, management of livestock effluents and the use of fertilizers. The report also considers that it would be possible to take additional measures, compared to those already agreed and announced under existing EU legislation, in particular on methane emissions. Madam Minister, I therefore come to my questions. Have you or your services already been able to read this report? If so, what analysis do you make at this stage? Do you have figures specific to Belgium on premature deaths due to air pollution and on emissions of the main air pollutants in general? Moreover, why did our country not, according to the Commission, take the appropriate measures to meet its commitments to reduce ammonia emissions under the NEC directive? Do you intend to enter into a dialogue on this matter with your colleague in charge of agriculture and possibly with the Regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u55	Mrs Hanus, as you say, the report was released on 8 January. I hope you will understand that neither my firm nor my services nor myself have yet had time to get to know them accurately in order to respond appropriately. With regard to the specific figures of premature deaths due to air pollution in Belgium, I refer you to my previous answer to Mr Senesael on nanoparticle emissions. Compared to measures relating to the reduction of ammonia emissions mainly from livestock farming, this issue does not fall within the competence of the federal authority under the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms. Federal competence on product, tax or mobility standards allows us to contribute to efforts to reduce the four other pollutants in the NEC Directive: NOX, SO2 and SOV. I invite you to ask me again in a few weeks when we have taken the time to read the report. I thank you, in any case, for putting this important report to the fore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u56	Minister, thank you for the first answer you give and the doors you open and where I can ask for information. Of course, for my group and for myself, the preservation of air quality is a priority. Whether in town or in rural areas, we are always committed to ensuring that this common good is protected, especially since it is both an environmental and a health issue. I shall therefore not hesitate to return in a more appropriate time and always in a constructive perspective, especially on this subject which is essential for us Socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u57	Mr President, Minister, last month the European Council endorsed the new European climate target for 2030. In doing so, the European Council did not respond to the European Parliament's and the Belgian climate movement's demand for at least 60% emission reduction by 2030, nor to the demand not to use accounting tricks such as carbon sinks, including the CO2 extracted from the air by forests, lakes or other natural elements, in the climate effort. In other words, the European Council also agrees with the latest scientific findings that the EU should reduce its emissions by at least 65% by 2030 in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. With the current target of 55 per cent, we are still facing a life-threatening warming of more than 3°C by the end of this century. Madam Minister, is it true that you and this government have been actively advocating not to exceed 55% of emissions by 2030? What was Belgium's attitude towards the use of accounting tricks such as carbon sinks, which would only bring the actual emission reduction to 50.5%? I am not making up the latter, I mention figures from the European Commission itself. Finally, my most important question. How do you justify arguing for a lower target than what is necessary according to science, given the fact that this government is calling itself ambitious in terms of climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Daems, you know that we have welcomed the new European objective, because it represents a significant increase in ambition. The EU wants to reduce emissions within Europe by at least 55% compared to 1990. I emphasise the words "inside" and "at least." Compared to the previous objective, this is a significant increase in ambition of at least 37.5 %. Climate Action Tracker has already published a first pass-through of the objective. It welcomes the increase in ambition, indicates that we are approaching a fork that can meet the Paris climate objective, and that this depends largely on the policy choices we make in the spring on the concrete instruments and measures to achieve the minimum rate of return55 per cent. Climate Action Tracker estimates the impact of carbon sinks through better land use and reforestation at about 2 percentage points and not at the 5 percentage points you indicate. This independent screening also contradicts you that this target would lead to 3 degrees of warming. Within the Belgian context and in consultation with the other entities, we have gone for the maximum achievable. Then I come to the specific questions about our specific negotiating position. As you know, Belgium has focused on cost efficiency and additional flexibility to achieve the collective objectives. Our positions have in no way harmed or curtailed the level of European ambition. The Belgian negotiating position does not contain elements against higher objectives or more carbon sinks during these negotiations. This European increase in ambition is an important step in the right direction. I will, of course, make efforts to exceed the 2030 target at European level, as has now been done with the 2020 targets. In me, you have an ally for a climate policy, which is in line with the Paris climate agreement, Mrs Daems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u59	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that it is politically difficult in our country to advocate climate objectives in line with the climatic need, but we still believe that you have a duty to do so in the interests of humans and the planet. If we have to wait until a solution to the climate problem is politically timely, then we will be hopelessly too late. Let's tackle the problem at the root. That is for us the mad capitalist system that is not and will never be sustainable. The solutions are well known, Madam Secretary. There's been a bunch of scientific reports lined up for years. It is now a question of applying these solutions and not sticking to accounting tricks. We therefore find it incomprehensible that the system of carbon sinks has been incorporated into the European climate agreement and that the European climate ambition is being further undermined. This is a false communication trick, whereby you make people believe that the EU is going to reduce emissions by 55%, while only 50.5% is going to be reduced. Madam Secretary, we can do better, and I'm sure you know that. You say that you will make efforts to exceed the objectives. I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u60	Madam Minister, a number of questions have already been asked on this subject today, but this question has a different approach. In December, you reached an agreement with the Länder on the Belgian position for the negotiations on a new EU climate target for 2030. Apart from the fact that that Belgian position is far from sufficient to achieve the objective of the Paris Agreement, I know that you have had to negotiate with the Flemish Government firmly to reach even an agreement on that target of 55% reduction. What concessions did you have to make to Flanders in exchange for their agreement? We already know that the so-called cost-efficiency and flexibility, whether international or not, were important conditions. Has it also been agreed, for example, that Flanders will have to make less effort than the other regions in the distribution of the increased Belgian objective? Where are the negotiations on the intra-Belgian distribution of climate objectives at the moment? The deadline for this was 1 January 2021. When do you hope to reach an agreement on this? Is the requirement of cost-efficiency that Flanders had advocated for the Prime Minister at European level also included in that intra-Belgian distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u61	Mrs Daems, several of your questions have already been addressed in a slightly different form today. Let me repeat the answers just to be clear. The Belgian position for supporting the minimum reduction of 55% within Europe depended on two points of interest which Belgium wished to see reflected even more strongly in the Council conclusions. In particular, it concerned the distribution of the objective between Member States on the basis of equity, solidarity and cost-efficiency, on the one hand, and additional flexibility to achieve the objective within Europe, on the other. Contrary to what I read in the press and what the Flemish Region initially asked, it is not about flexibility outside Europe or the purchase of emission credits from outside the closed European emission area. The other entities, including the federal level, have always resisted this. We are talking about flexibility within Europe which makes it possible to achieve the sharp targets without undermining the level of ambition. Belgium's position vis-à-vis Europe is in no way reflected in the intra-Belgian distribution. That is a completely different discussion. Within Europe, we must ensure that our values, our ideas and our interests are taken into account as closely as possible, and the four entities must reach agreement on this. Otherwise, there is no Belgian position. Within Belgium, we must achieve a workable distribution of the benefits and efforts of climate policy, so that families, businesses and local authorities are clear as soon as possible. That is why the National Climate Commission of 3 December 2020 agreed that we would like to negotiate a new cooperation agreement for the Glasgow Climate Conference in early November 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This is useful information and we will undoubtedly continue to work on it politically. We will continue to monitor the intra-Belgian distribution of the increased climate objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u63	Madam Minister, last month you promised to deliver to Parliament the report of the National Climate Commission meeting of 3 December 2020. But I note that I have still not received the report. Also online I can't find it anywhere. Last time, I also questioned you about the discussions that took place at that time. That is why I am again asking you my questions today. By exactly when can we expect that report in our mailbox? What exactly was discussed at the meeting on 3 December 2020? What were the reactions of the Regions and your own administration to the European Commission's criticism of the NEKP submitted? You are providing for a review by means of an action plan and you have already replied that you do not yet have an agreement with the regions. Perhaps you can already tell us what the views and intentions of the different regions are? What is the state of play with regard to the distribution of revenues from allowances? You have just answered that question in response to a question by Mr Bombled. So this question lapses. How will you improve the transparency and functioning of the NKC?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u64	Excuse me. I see that part of my answer is in French. Decisions taken at the meetings of the National Climate Commission are available on the CNC portal. Unfortunately, the minutes are not made public because of an earlier decision by the Commission. Some members of the Commission remain opposed to the publication of these minutes and some of these internal communications, such as the synthesis report on climate governance. At present, the CNC's documents made public are essentially limited to official reporting: mandatory reports under European legislation or decisions of the UNFCC. For my part, I am in favour of maximum transparency. I therefore believe that all the work of the National Climate Commission should be made public. I do not lose hope of convincing my colleagues in the Commission to extend its existing advertisements to all of the Commission's work and reports. The main points raised at the meeting on 3 December relate to the follow-up to the Burden Sharing Agreement 2013-2020 (publication of the Annual Implementation Report), the Burden Sharing 2021 2030 (exchange of views on timing and modalities for reaching an agreement), the monitoring of the PNEC (taking into account the evaluation by the European Commission and follow-up actions), the National Adaptation Action Plan (its final evaluation) and governance (follow-up actions of the synthesis report). In connection with the European Commission's evaluation of the NEKP, the various energy and climate administrations of the Regions and the federal government, united in the NEKP Steering Group, have prepared and presented an analysis paper to the Energy Consultation and the NKC, together with a proposal for further steps. The Steering Committee pointed out that the European Commission's recommendations are not legally binding, should be interpreted as guidelines for the further implementation of the NEKP and an invitation to include them in the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. In addition to the lack of ambition you know about renewable energy and energy efficiency, the European Commission also points to the lack of clarity regarding the renewable energy pathway, including transport with a higher than required blending of biofuels, and the need to intensify measures in the building sectors, including energy poverty. In terms of governance, too, we believe that the European Commission had a series of pertinent recommendations. For example, she pointed out that she does not think the plan is coherent and that, although it is an improvement on the first plan, there is still no integrated and coherent plan based on a common vision. It also highlighted, inter alia, the need for greater coordination and integration of the entity plans and the lack of consolidated, qualitative socio-economic data, which could underpin the assessment of the impact of the planned policies, measures and investment needs. The Flemish Region sees no added value to allow the NKC or the steering committee to work on this subject at this stage. It does not wish to give any mandate in this direction. It is up to each entity to carry out its own implementation work. The NKC therefore only decided to send unidentified cases and some figures corrections to the European Commission in response to the report. There will therefore be no further follow-up actions in addition to these factual corrections and additions. For my part, I will focus on strengthening the federal contribution to the FNEP, and to do so, I intend to count on the contribution of all members of the government and federal departments involved in the implementation of the FNEP's federal policies and measures. As regards the distribution of revenues from the auctioning of ETS emission allowances, we have now reached the end of the previous agreement. It was the burden sharing agreement 2013 – 2020 that set the key for the distribution between the federal state and the three Regions for this period. As of January, there is no longer any legal basis for this distribution, as confirmed by the experts of the Burden working group to the members of the National Commission of 3 December. This issue will be addressed in the negotiations on burden sharing on which the members of the Climate Committee agreed on the goal of reaching a political agreement before the Glasgow COP 26 in November 2021. I intend to contribute constructively to this, in consultation with all the Commission's partners under the presidency of the Walloon Region this year, as I mentioned. I also pointed out, in a previous response, that I had obtained a mandate from the federal government to negotiate the allocation for the year 2021 to allow everyone to finance their climate policies by reaching agreement over the entire period. With regard to the transparency and functioning of the NEKP, during this NEKP there was an agreement to improve the cooperation between the NKC and the Energy Dialogue in a structural way for the follow-up of the NEKP. This can now be worked out in concrete terms within a legal framework. However, there was no agreement within the NKC to improve the transparency of the NEKP. With regard to the federal policies in the NEKP, I would like to take a step further in the area of transparency. It should be possible during the policy cycle to evaluate the measures based on a set of key indicators, the results of which can be reported to the general public and Parliament. In addition, this is accompanied by a response of the departments and trade ministers concerned to ensure the follow-up of the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u65	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the clarification. However, it is unbelievable that the reports of the National Climate Commission still cannot be made public because some members of the committee are obstructed. I therefore hope that you will be able to deliver on your commitment to make the National Climate Commission more transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u66	Minister, as you know, many very interesting and in-depth studies are concerned with the issue of non-system carbon recovery. I've always used the term "carbon valorization." It will be recalled that your ministry has launched a controversy on this issue. What have you undertaken since your installation, with your colleague in Finance, to draft an inclusive environmental policy to encourage virtuous consumption and production behaviour without burdening citizens and businesses with new taxes, as your colleague in Mobility states in principle? What is your goal so that your decisions can still have a quick impact on the decline in emissions? As is well known, in countries where such measures are being taken, the effect is potentialized as a framework for other greenhouse gas reduction processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u67	Mrs Marghem, as has already been pointed out, indeed, in the context of a controversy that you mentioned, the federal government intends to use this legislature to advance environmental taxation as part of a broader tax reform, the initiative of which rests with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem. The work done previously under your mandate on carbon pricing – but I will now use your more appropriate term – may be an important contribution to this exercise. We are in contact with the Minister of Finance on this matter. Furthermore, the European Commission is also expecting reforms from our country to give a clearer price signal in relation to environmental pollution. The Commission hopes that the list of these reforms will be drawn up within the framework of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I shall once again, together with the Minister of Finance, ensure that these reforms are in the Belgian plan. In terms of timing, I expect climate investment to have a positive impact on emissions in the early years. A positive element in this regard is that these investments by all governments will reduce greenhouse gas emissions in buildings, in public buildings as regards the federal government, but also in transport. On the other hand, a shift in environmental taxation will only have its effect once the overall tax reform has itself been carried out, since environmental taxation will be part of the work initiated by my colleague in Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Again, a situation I know well. We have to work with several people with sometimes different timings, short-term goals that are different. I have no doubt, and I would like you to be the checker of your Finance colleague, who obviously has before him a far-reaching reform, not just on the environment and the protection of the environment, but on other imperatives of simplification for example and fundamental reforms of our taxation. Your subject matter, once again transversal, actually allows you – especially through the letters you sent to your colleagues – to address this issue specifically, since it is a central point in the aid that could be added to all other investment measures taken elsewhere. Unfortunately, at the federal level – knowing that at the regional level, you depend on an agreement and work with your colleagues – it is important to be the postillon capable of leading the carriage quickly towards its objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u69	Madam Secretary, yesterday the One Planet Summit on Biodiversity started in France. In addition to the issue of global warming, I think it is right that international summits on biodiversity should also be organised. For a piece, both subjects are also linked together. I am now in good company, in the presence of the current and previous competent minister. It seemed useful to me to look at what we have said at previous summits. Former Minister Marghem announced two concrete things on behalf of our country at a previous biodiversity summit: firstly, support for the protection of the giraffe, which was currently under protection, and secondly, a ban on ivory trade at European level. With this question, I would like to look at the situation. I know that the giraffe is listed in Appendix 2 to CITES, but questions can be asked. In April 2019, an intertwining of ivory trade was approved here in Parliament by law. However, I could not find the publication of that law. Madam Secretary, where are we today? How do you think you can weigh in the debate? What do you intend to do about this in the coming time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u70	Mr Verduyckt, I wish you well. The One Planet Summit for Biodiversity took place yesterday, on 11 January 2021, under the chairmanship of French President Macron. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, my representatives attended this summit online. Yesterday, Belgium strengthened its membership in the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership in a joint statement with the other members of the partnership. This partnership is an important lever to build a dialogue with all stakeholders in the fight against imported deforestation and to better protect biodiversity and valuable ecosystems. I refer to my answers to Mrs de Laveleye's questions on the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. At the 18th International CITES Conference in August 2019, it was decided to better protect giraffes. That was a big and necessary step in the right direction. The population of the giraffes experienced an alarming decline in recent decades due to illegal hunting and habitat loss. It is important that we continue to move in the right direction together with the international community. There must be an end to the extinction of many species. We need to secure the future of species, especially the future of the most vulnerable species. On your question on ivory trade, I can tell you that I am following this important dossier very closely. It is a long-standing dossier in which Belgium was always in favour of a European approach, as national restrictions lead to the circumvention of the rules by shifting to other Member States. Control of regulation is also very important. Work is under way at European level on a proposal with stricter rules, which hopefully will be finalised quickly. These rules can then be implemented. I myself and my services will continue to work to strengthen the fight against poaching and illegal trafficking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u71	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. These two specific cases are as follows. The giraffes have indeed appeared in Appendix 2 to CITES. In other words, at least today there is regulation for the trade in parts of giraffes, but in order to really protect them, this should be included in Annex 1. The figures are really alarming, as you say. CITES legislation is mainly a trade treaty. When I look at the sites on legislation, I notice that it is mainly a trade agreement, which is good in itself. For me, however, the link to biological reality is sometimes far-fetched, which I partly understand. It is a global treaty and a very great compromise that we have made here in the world. However, they are only endangered species. The question is to what extent they can handle such a compromise. After all, it is a good thing to compromise with each other. However, when it has to be established at some point that a particular species is simply dying out, we are not much with that compromise. It is therefore a good thing that these agreements are there and that you want to fight the battle. Keep that in mind. We must take very clear positions on this issue. That's what our country's already done. I am thinking, for example, of combating the hunting of seals, in which we have really been at the forefront. We have gone along as one of the first countries in this struggle. Europe followed us in that direction. So we can do the same in the field of ivory trade. You will find an ally in us in that regard. We must not allow ourselves to be pushed away with a compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u72	Mr President, Minister, the textile industry is one of the largest global sectors and is a sector which has an enormous impact on the environment because of the amount of raw materials used and the chemical products used, and I am not talking about the economic conditions in which people work. In the textile sector, we are thinking mainly of clothing, but it is also about shoes, curtains, carpets and so on. It is therefore a very large sector. In the context of your policy paper, you spoke about the circular economy, and I think that this is a sector in which we need to look at how we can move forward. I occasionally see reports on small businesses and SMEs working on them, but those are just drops on a hot plate. I would specifically like to ask you this question in order to find out exactly how you look at this sector. Do you think that the federal government can achieve this, or should we rather do so at European level? Do you think that we can really take concrete measures on labelling and good information to ensure that we can move forward in one of the largest sectors in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u73	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, I am currently finalising a federal circular economy action plan in conjunction with my colleagues and with the Länder in order to significantly reduce the use of raw materials and the footprint of materials in production and consumption. Given the forthcoming European textile strategy and the circular potential of the textile industry, this will certainly be one of the spearheads of the federal action plan. With the plan we aim for less waste and more secondary raw materials. The transition to a circular economy requires much more than recycling raw materials. It is about new value creation and preservation, more emphasis on reuse and restoration and new business models, but also about designing differently, since 80% of the environmental impact of a product is determined at the design stage. For example, in order to develop a circular product, consideration should already be given at the design stage to the demountability of a product. This makes it easier to repair the product and makes it easier to reuse the materials. The federal government will focus on a coherent production policy, product standardisation and the extension of product life, for example through criteria on the repairability of specified products in the fight against planned aging or by introducing the longer legal warranty period. Focusing on green public procurement and promoting chain cooperation are important. Finally, efforts will be made to remove legislative and financial barriers, such as waste definitions, to encourage the use of secondary raw materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u74	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. My question was informative. I think this is an important issue, on which you will have a lot of questions. I will continue to follow this up because I find this particularly interesting and important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u75	Mr President, Minister, in addition to climate warming and energy poverty, carbon inequality is a priority for us. The study of the Stockholm Environment Institute on carbon inequality contained elements that I expected, but some of them are falling backwards. The richest 1% of the world's population appears to be responsible for 15% of emissions. It is also stated that the richest 10% of Belgians emit more than all the inhabitants of Hungary, Sweden, Finland or Denmark put together. Those are things that lead to reflection. This study shows how unfair emissions are distributed in the world today. Your colleague Gilkinet spoke in the newspaper this weekend about a global tax reform to combat pollution. Madam Secretary, how do you view that? What steps do you think we should take to address carbon inequality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u76	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, the carbon inequality to which you refer lies at the basis of the fact that carbon tarification is progressive when income is returned to the population in an equal amount per capita. Richer households pollute more on average and will thus pay a higher absolute amount, but get back the same amount per capita as all other households. The opposite is true for poorer families. On average, they will receive a higher amount in return than they pay. This aspect is one of the essence of a carbon dividend, climate bonus or whatever tax regime is designated. Unfortunately, some parties in the opposition do not appreciate this. It is not yet clear at this stage whether such a climate bonus will be part of the fiscal reform that the federal government will be preparing. I believe that the wording in the coalition agreement points in that direction. It says that we want to discourage the use of fossil fuels by means of a tax-driven instrument with price signals. According to the government agreement, this instrument must be budget-neutral, with revenues being returned to the population and businesses. I am already in contact with the Minister of Finance. In due course, he will take the necessary initiatives to prepare the tax reform and the environmental tax section. I will cooperate fully on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic326x.u77	Madam Secretary, you are right to say that some parties are terrifying people. However, they overlook one thing. There are two kinds of taxes in my view. There are taxes that serve to bring in income and there are taxes that serve to drive people into a certain behavior. That's a big difference. That's what this is about. It's about that dichotomy that people don't want to see. You feel that this is very close to my heart. CO2 emissions come at a price. If someone has an impact on their environment, they have to contribute to that. That's the truth, that's the truth. That may be an uncomfortable truth, because we all like to go on vacation by plane, we all like to do that, but we need to realise that this has an impact on our living environment. Take this study to heart and let it be an encouragement and encouragement for you to do indeed a much fairer tax system in that area, in which we take that ecological footprint.
