ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u1	Madam Minister, when the Federal Council of Ministers discussed the second reading of the draft Royal Decree on the parameters by which the volume of capacity to be purchased, the method of calculation and the other parameters for auctioning were determined, you apparently met with the European Commissioner for Competition. You communicated that everything related to CRM is on track, that there were still some open points, which would no longer be problematic, and that the support mechanism would still be finally approved. However, an in-depth investigation was launched on 21 September 2020 to check whether the CRM complies with EU state aid rules. The European Commission then had serious questions about the adequacy of resources in the Belgian electricity market, which were not sufficiently demonstrated or properly quantified. This concerned the actual need for state aid, the amount of aid and the necessary capacity. Furthermore, the Commission feared that certain technologies would be discriminated against and that the participation of cross-border capacity could be unfairly restricted and had raised questions regarding so-called congestion revenues. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What was the content of the meeting? According to the European Commissioner, have all the objections and questions contained in the European Commission's press release of 21 September 2020 been removed or satisfactorily answered by the Belgian Government? If not, what matters still need clarification or tranched? So I would like some more input on the content of the communication that there were still open points, which would not, however, be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u2	Madam Minister, in recent weeks we have shown that we need more flexibility in our energy market. Just think of Tihange 2, on which we will be asking a number of questions later, about the maintenance of Coo's power basin and the compulsory shutdown of windmills. However, in recent weeks we have also put energy into finding solutions. We approved the CRM Act. Our most recent committee meeting showed that you have also taken steps forward with the royal decisions to comply with that law. As Mr Ravyts said, we read in the media on Friday 23 April 2021 that Europe is also giving positive signals about the subsidy mechanism for new power plants. So once again a step is taken in greening and keeping our energy system available and affordable. Last Friday you had a conversation with the European Commissioner, who himself called it a constructive dialogue. How did you experience the conversation? You signed out the legal framework for the CRM at six months' time. Do you expect us to be able to keep the tight deadline by October 2021? What steps still need to be taken? You often show the timeline with not only security of supply but also affordability and greening. What is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u3	Madam Minister, it is clear that a number of steps still need to be taken in a dossier that has been pending for a long time. By the way, I have just heard that you have actually drawn up the entire legal mechanism in six months, which was new to me. I think that would have happened before, if I'm right. At least you had a conversation with the European Commissioner. I read in the newspaper articles, first of all, that there is suddenly an expected verdict in the summer of 2021. That is something quite different from what has been mentioned in the past. It used to be about the need for a ruling in March-April 2021, because it was intended to ensure that this was done before the pre-qualification procedure. In my view, it was due to run in full in May-June 2021 and would be closed in July 2021. I am therefore somewhat surprised that there is no statement until the summer of 2021. Can you confirm that news? Are you assuming that today? Secondly, the main outstanding points have already been referred to a number of times in committee. Could you brief us on what points it is dealing with and where it would still be stuck?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u4	Madam Secretary, optimism is a moral duty. When I read in the newspaper about that interview, I was also in a positive mood. I read in that report that 'Belgium has made good progress'..................................................................................................................................................................................................... My questions are similar to those of my colleagues, Madam Secretary. How did you judge that meeting yourself? Can you clarify what progress has been made by our country? What outstanding points remain to be cleared? Can this above all be met in good time? Other colleagues have already referred to the tight timing. Is there more insight into the timing of the final assessment by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u5	Madam Minister, my first question is also about the European Commission's investigation. You were talking about open issues. What points have already been resolved and are no longer objections to the European Commission? On what points does the Commission have any objections? Which points exactly are those? Secondly, how do you estimate the pending decision of the European Commission? Would the CRM be approved with or without conditions? For when would that be? I hear Mr Wollants talking about the summer. Thirdly, the 30-day deadline for the opinion of the Council of State on the Royal Decrees has now expired. I assume you've been given those advices in the meantime? Do you intend to make those adjustments? What does the Council of State say about the KBs? Can you give us an update on the various KBs? Were they discussed at the Council of Ministers on Friday? When will you sign and publish them? Finally, I can only try, when will you make the volume decision? Have you already made a decision on the volume to be auctioned? Will you follow Elia's advice of 9.2 Megawatt in the T-4 auction? If you can say that, how much existing derated capacity is there already? If you decide to follow Elijah's advice, how much new capacity will you aim at?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u6	Do your last questions relate to the meeting with Mrs Vestager?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u7	It is a clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u8	Yeah, it's a clarification that it's not. I had asked to focus in the first part on the meeting with Mrs Vestager. Mr Warmoes, you will have the floor later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u9	Mr President, it is all in one question with sub-questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u10	With 12 sub-questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u11	Since it's one question, I have to ask them anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, because of the many questions from my colleagues, I will be brief. After years of procrastination, you have decided to make this security of supply guarantee a real government goal. Moreover, as soon as you took up your duties, you took it very seriously, as your meeting with Commissioner Vestager in Berlaymont showed. This shows that, from the beginning, you took the bull by the horns. What did you withdraw from Friday's meeting? What is the response of the European Commission? What time frame has it set to move the case forward and close as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u13	Madam Minister, I heard in the media that you had a constructive discussion with the European Commissioner, who is in favour of further developments in the Belgian CRM dossier. I was happy about that. However, I still have a number of questions, as do my fellow Members. Can you explain which objections or bottlenecks in the CRM dossier still need to be clarified for the European Commission? Have agreements been made with the European Commissioner? By 30 April at the latest, you will have to make the necessary decisions regarding the CRM auction. Has the meeting with the EU Commissioner provided clarification on this timing? What are the next steps to be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u14	Mr Ben Accour has not been logged in to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u15	I did not have any additional questions regarding the meeting with Mrs Vestager, but I added a question about the Dils energy project that you certainly did not discuss with the Commissioner. I see that Mrs Marghem has put a question on this, so I will listen to that answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u16	That is a pragmatic attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u17	Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak in this topical debate. Madam Minister, you announced on Twitter that you had met with European Commissioner Vestager about CRM. In your communication, you described this meeting as constructive, as the European Commissioner confirmed that Belgium had made good progress. Would it be possible to give us more details on this meeting, in particular on the progress of our country? What are the next steps taken with the European Commission? When can we expect a final response from the European Commission? Indeed, by 30 April 2021 at the latest, you must finalize the parameters included in the royal decree "volume and parameters". Can you therefore give us details of the drafting of this royal decree? We must indeed organise a follow-up meeting in this committee to discuss these parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have rightly discussed the CRM many times in this committee. I think we'll talk about it later. After the first auction we must remain attentive to see what that has given and what that means for the design. We have already talked about the European part of the CRM. It is good to add another deep-dive here as far as state aid notification is concerned. As a reminder, the file was notified by the Belgian State to the European Commission in December 2019. In spring 2020, it appeared that the European Commission could not fully explain the file because no choice was made by the Belgian State as to the financing of the CRM. That was the reason for this committee to draw up the dossier. This gave rise to the adoption of the CRM resolution on 16 July, which gave direction to the Belgian State on the aspect of financing. It said how this could happen. That resolution was notified to the European Commission, which declared the dossier complete. On 21 September, the European Commission decided to open an indepth investigation. In the opening decision, the European Commission had already raised a number of points, which were discussed in detail here in October. On 12 October, I had a first meeting with Executive Vice-President Vestager. At that time the intention of the discussion was to indicate in particular what the Belgian Government's policy would be. We just had a government with full powers back then. We then made a number of working arrangements. At that time we also had to respond to the opening decision. Afterwards the market survey followed, to which the Belgian State also had to reply. So that period had to pass completely first. A work plan was then drawn up with the European Commission and the Belgian State to begin work. None of that is new information, which we have discussed before. We also agreed to meet again in the period March-April, because many of your questions and sub-questions will be about the volume decision during that period. Initially the date was 30 March, but we decided in the law and by executive royal decision to postpone that period for a month, until 30 April. Mr Wollants, in October the European Commission already gave a statement to the Commission, and I think I have already said this here earlier: a decision by the European Commission at the time of the volume determination would be too ambitious, given the time required for such a notification. That is why we already agreed at that time that the Belgian State and the European Commission would see each other at all in that period in order to draw up a state of affairs. This can then happen at the time when we make the volume determination, in a context where the market can anticipate, so that an approval can follow or not. That is why we made that decision at the time. That is why, in the run-up to that discussion here in Parliament, at your request, we had an exchange of views on the system operator's report and the proposal and advice of the regulator on the parameters of volume, because we are in the process of planning that volume. Mr Bombled, you asked me about the follow-up to this committee. We had a meeting one or two weeks before Easter. We did the consultation, and we discussed the derating factor a lot. In that context, the meeting took place. Over the last few months, the dossier has been hard worked on, not only in Parliament, with the adoption of the law and the consultation on the volume parameters, but also by the government, with the further development of the KBs. That is the state of affairs we took in the meeting. During the sitting we discussed three main points in particular. The first major point concerns the application of European methodologies in the context of CRM design. We have also discussed this in detail in Parliament. It is about the ERAA, the NRAA and the Adequacy and flexibility study of Elia, which is expected by June. The new European methodologies are, of course, also immediately in force. In view of the ongoing state aid investigation, I explained the interaction between the European methodologies and the CRM design, which is being further developed. As I said earlier in Parliament, I explained that we take climate years into account, for example, in the Adequacy and flexibility study, that the economic viability test, the method of expected income, is also included in the study and that the flow-based approach has been included in the Elia study for some time now. We have also considered the implementation plan of the European methodologies for the ERAA and the NRAA. The European Network Managers ENTSO-E follow a specific implementation plan that runs until 2023. The Belgian State will already translate a number of aspects of European methodologies, so that we take them into account in the CRM design. A second aspect of the methodologies of course concerns the VOLL, CONE and LOLE, the reliability standard created by two input variables, the Value of Lost Load and, on the other hand, the Cost of New Entry. We have also given the European Commission a state of play on this matter. So that was the first major point about European methodologies: what is expected and how is progressing? The second big point was, of course, the volume because we are making a volume decision. For those who have asked, this Friday, that point will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, after last week's second reading approved the QB on volume. That is why the European Commission has re-stated what it had written in its opening decision, namely that no over-procurement should be involved. In the conversation we mainly talked about the specificity of our Belgian system, with a split between the volume T-4 and T-1, in which we talk in our law about the very specific article, Mr Wollants, about the capacity of less than 200 hours in one year, a volume that is reserved for the T-1 auction. That was an important point for the Commission because it guarantees that technology neutrality will be introduced into the system, a proof that people really want to go for it. It is also a guarantee to avoid overprocurement in T-4. In fact, we are doing new assessments of the volume in the interim, so that we get a balanced system. Thirdly, you will not be surprised either, we have discussed in detail the sustainability of the CRM and how the CRM fits in with the Green Deal ambitions, in particular climate neutrality by 2050 and the ambition that we fully support with this government. In this respect, we have explained the following. The CRM is of course no exception to the rule. On the contrary, the CRM is not only about security of supply, but it will also create jobs for renewable energy as a leverage for the energy transition, to which Mrs Buyst referred in her question. Regarding specificity, when it comes to emissions, the easy answer is, of course, that this is regulated at European level by the ETS. However, that does not relieve us of the responsibility of holding it with both hands. There are three routes for that. Firstly, looking carefully at the CO2 intensity of the production park and in particular the split of the volume between T-4 and T-1 helps. This means that we have a large volume there, estimated volume demand side management, storage, battery technology that goes to T-4, which means that we already have a brake on fossil capacity in the framework of CRM. Secondly, the switch to renewable energy. The most important thing we need to do is to increase the share of renewable electricity in our energy mix. Then we will also need less turning hours of fossil capacity. Hence the government's initiatives to at least double the target for offshore in the North Sea, and also to look for other connections, including in Denmark. In the switch to renewable energy, it is also chosen to green the fuel, for example by adding hydrogen and its longer-term potential. Finally, if needed, the development of a regulatory framework for remaining CO2 emissions. Questions have also been asked here about exactly what is going on with the CCS. With regard to these points, we have discussed in detail Belgium's projects in the context of the relay plan, which are also a response, such as the North Sea energy island for offshore infrastructure, but also the project decarbonisation of the molecule, a very specific project under the RRF, where the Commissioner stressed that innovation is very important for her, and the initiatives towards hydrogen backbone. The Belgian State and the European Commission share the concern to avoid a lock-in. That is why we have long considered the interaction with the RRF and the ways to look at it, to have a holistic view with security of supply on the one hand and energy transition on the other. Furthermore, we have explained that we are working within a very tight time frame, with this year's T-4 auction, in which we will take as much account as possible of the European framework, but that we are not yet fully clear on the implementation of the European Resource Adequacy Assessment, which is heading towards 2023. We have great understanding of the Commission's position to make progress and we are working constructively on this. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important result of the meeting, as far as I am concerned, that Mrs Vestager confirmed that the consultations were constructive. It also indicated that it realized the importance of the timing of the Commission's decision. The outcome of the meeting was, at this stage, the best possible outcome. In other words, so far, so far, so far so good. As far as the timing of the Commission's decision is concerned, we have, for our part, reiterated the importance of a timely decision, which, for me, ideally means around the summer, since immediately after the summer, at the end of October, the T-4 auction takes place. The Commissioner has confirmed that she is well aware of the importance of this timing. The CRM Act entered into force in March, which means that the pre-qualification procedure can in any case start. I can also say that the Commissioner did not commit himself to a timing or a specific moment, but merely announced a decision before the auction. I have no choice but to respect the Commission's position. For example, the Commission has indicated that it wants to look at our volume decision, and there is simply a timing for the adequacy and flexibility decision. The open points are being asked. This concerns the completion of the points I have just listed. The decision on the adequation and flex is coming up. We are also working on, among other things, the volume decision. All these things become more and more a whole. Then we can work towards a decision. Mr Warmoes, you have asked whether the Commission will take a decision with conditions. I certainly cannot anticipate that, nor have we discussed it. However, I can say that in this matter, but also in other matters relating to State aid research, I have rarely seen decisions of DG Competition without conditions. Most decisions taken by the European Commission in the context of State aid notifications, including in the case of the CRM, are conditional decisions. My intention is therefore that we should anticipate these conditions, in the discussions that continue at technical level. Indeed, after our meeting, working meetings with the European Commission will continue. Mr Warmoes, the Council of State has, of course, delivered its opinions on the various royal decisions. The Council of State always respects the timing anyway. We dealt first with the royal decision on the volume methodology and the parameters. This was approved by the Council of Ministers at second reading last Friday. Other royal decrees will be dealt with further in order to be adopted as soon as possible. This will be important this Friday, because then I will present the volume decision to the government. The discussion on this issue in the government is still ongoing. Mr Warmoes, on the substantive aspects and the figures you are asking me, I refer to my explanations at the previous meetings of the Committee on Energy. The figures you ask about available capacity, existing capacity and derated capacity are all publicly known. That information can be consulted on Elia's website. These are input variables for the determination and flexibility. That's all well documented. Mrs Buyst, you had a question about timing. With regard to security of supply, we are currently on track, so far so good, with the European Commission's indication of the speed with which we are moving. That's what's going on. Work on the energy standard in the light of affordability is also continuing so that timing can be respected. By September, there will be the first proposals in the Interkabinets Working Group. Follow legislative proposals after the auction in November. I've always said the two are Siamese twins. One can't do without the other. Mr Wollants, you want to put that timing forward a little bit, but the two are Siamese twins and are treated together. I have talked extensively with Mrs Vestager about greening. So that's about, among other things, the re-launch plan. In that respect, too, we are on schedule. This Friday, the final version of the plan will be sent to the European Commission. This does not, of course, prevent us from working effectively on the projects that are important in the context of energy, and therefore in the context of the CRM. So we are good for the other two subjects as well so far. So far so good .
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for the full answer. It is an ungodly process and you will not blame me for setting out in my question the outdated situation of 29 September. The Belgian Government had to respond by 23 October. However, we have never heard from you how the European Commission reacted to this. That's why I've listed everything again. At that time, however, the calibration report of Elia and all the opinions that you yourself have outlined were not yet available. So that design has gradually developed and it is only natural that you now had a meeting with the European Commissioner. You said that the debate on the volume decision is still ongoing within the government. If I look at the agenda for today, the questions of the French-speaking colleagues show that there may still be discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. You have outlined how things have been over the past few months. It is striking that the speed, effectiveness and clarity with which you have been involved in the CRM framework over the past few months make a difference to the previous legislature. That's what I'd like to bring up. It is important to look to the future and in this context the proactive role you play in the conversation is striking. For our group, this is also the best way to tackle the European debate on the greening of our energy and electricity markets. We must adopt a proactive, constructive and credible attitude in our dialogue with Europe. I believe that you have succeeded in achieving this with regard to the consultation with Mrs Vestager. The coming months are crucial, but I have every confidence that you will do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. Many things will, of course, depend on the course of events. Neither I nor you can predict today what the European Commissioner will decide. Suppose there is an adjustment at the end of the ride, following those conversations of almost 18 months since the introduction of the file. I can imagine that there will be a change of direction from Europe here and there. If that is yet to happen next summer, it may be a challenge to ensure that these auctions can take place. If everyone is prequalified and then it turns out that there is a group that still has to pre-qualify, that can be a challenge, not a small one. I am still a little concerned about this, although I understand that you cannot say too much at the moment. On the other hand, I note that the 200-hour argument is being used more and more. That was not entirely my assessment when I tabled an amendment here in 2019, which was also not supported by the Minister. However, I believe that we must ensure that the objective is achieved. You said that the T-1 auction will make sure that people have less fossil to work. That may be so, but of course there are still technologies that can be rolled out in a relatively short period of time and still be fossil. It is also possible that certain installations will not be offered in the T-4, but will still emerge in the T-1 auction. These are all matters for which we must be awake today. We need to see what it gives us. The fact that something is auctioned in T-1 is not enough to indicate that it is fossil or less fossil than the other side of the story. Finally, I am very curious to hear what you will say at the end of this week and what the conclusions will be. However, there is still work to be done there too, but I will give you a light shot in relation to my next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u22	Madam Secretary, you will continue to work in a competent hurry, and we will hold you to that. It is good that you regularly report to the committee on this. I hope that the Commission's decision will be asap, as soon as possible. That's how I stay in English jargon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u23	Madam Minister, your answers were quite complete, not quite, because I did not receive an answer to all my questions. Of course, there's still a problem. You've outlined it again. The parameters or assumptions you are going to bring with you for the flexibility and adequacy study are not new. These must be determined in June, i.e. after the determination of the volume. That remains a problem for us. I am pleased to hear that you are putting the emphasis on the aspect of energy transition as important as security of supply. However, there is a problem with that. If the flexibility and adequacy study or later studies showed that the T-4 was overrated, there wouldn't be much left for the T-1. Mr Wollants also pointed out that the T-1 was not necessarily renewable. In addition, you emphasised that you are studying the CCS methodology in the framework of the gas plants. As far as we are concerned, there are considerable inherent risks involved, including leaks. That is not a safe technology at the moment. I'd be very careful about that. I would also like more details about your planning regarding the various royal decisions. Last Friday, apparently, you only dealt with the QB on the volume methodology. I would also have liked to have planned for funding, foreign capacity, eligibility and so on. Finally, you reported that the parameters, such as the de-rated capacity, are in the Adequacy and Flexibility Study, but that is and remains a study. Eventually it's about your decision, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u24	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. We will continue to support you in advancing this urgent issue because we are aware of the interest in ensuring the country's security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. So far so good, I'd say. We hope, of course, that this dossier will come to a successful conclusion and will continue to follow the next steps. If you return regularly to Parliament, we are completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u26	Mr President, I listened carefully to the Minister's answers. I thank him for that. It is well known that the continuation of a sustained and proactive dialogue with the Commission is a key element in the successful development of the case. I congratulate her on her proactivity. The dossier it inherited was complicated, in a state of uncertainty and, week after week, managed to clarify things and restore positive prospects for this important energy transition issue. I renew to her, but she knows, all our support for continuing in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed explanation. For the time being, I've heard enough about the CRM train. We left a bit later, but now we're on that train together and we're all hoping you can get him to the terminal. In the last few months, you've had to increase speed. After all, there was still a long way to go. You know our concerns about the file. So I won't repeat it. We support you in achieving a good result and will discuss it further when the dossier comes back on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. For the green transition to be successful, it is essential that sufficient investment be directed towards the activities that support it. I was able to read that on 21 April last the European Commission published the delegated act for the application of the taxonomy relating to green activities, defining the areas or investments considered to be sustainable as well as the financing needed to achieve a 55% reduction in CO2 emissions in 2030 and carbon neutrality in Europe in 2050. In other words, this taxonomy should allow all investors to allocate their money to these activities, companies actively engaged in the green transition to have access to capital, and investors to be protected from greenwashing. However, gas is not included in the list. Let us hope that this will not put the implementation of the CRM in jeopardy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u29	Mr President, Minister, the government is committed to a sustainable transformation of our transport system. It aims to achieve this ambition through various policies, such as fiscal incentives, a coherent infrastructure policy and the roll-out of charging pole infrastructure. That is what Mr Khattabi said at the committee on Tuesday 9 March. I would therefore like to address this question to you. Can you indicate separately for each of the three regions in this country whether and when the consultations were started? How do you estimate the plans and ambitions of each Region? Do you think the plans and ambitions of each Region are adequate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u30	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the deployment of the necessary loading infrastructure is important for realising the federal government's ambition to phase out the sale of non-zero vehicles. My fellow Minister Van Peteghem is working on a new policy to provide the necessary financial incentive to contribute to this objective, which is part of this government's re-launch plan. That is supported by my team and we work very well together. It is very important for us to encourage this charging infrastructure so that it is ready for the future energy market. It is about emissions-free relocation - my colleague Mr Khattabi referred to emissions related to the transport sector in committee on 9 March - but also about the challenge for our energy sector of power to grid, how we can make car charging infrastructure - wheels batteries, as some colleagues call them - work in our future flexible energy market. It goes without saying that this is not something of the federal government alone. On the contrary, as you say in your question, the policy of the Regions is very important. That policy has been written down in the National Energy and Climate Plan and I assume that it will be implemented in accordance with what was agreed in it. It is my ambition to continue working with the regional authorities to further support this. It is, of course, the case that the regions are pursuing their own policies, Mr Raskin. Above all, it is my ambition to work together here in addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u31	Madam Minister, we fully agree when you say that a transition to an electric vehicle fleet requires a globally supported policy approach. This will certainly require an accelerated development of the charging pole infrastructure. You have actually given a very careful and sensible answer here. It's hard for me to disagree with you. We all have the ambition to realize that transition. The question is how, but we share that ambition. It is really about responsibilities that lie with the regions. The reason for my questions was the statements made by Mrs Khattabi, who spoke about the consultation with the Regions that was planned. However, you have not answered any of my three questions, Madam Secretary. I wonder why not. You're a wise minister. There's got to be a reason. I can't settle for the introduction you're giving. I have asked you three specific questions, Madam Minister, and you have not answered any of them. Mr President, am I now obliged to put the same questions identically in order to get an answer to my questions? Madam Secretary, may I ask you to prepare yourself for the follow-up questions, which will be about the same. As a Member of Parliament, I think I can get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u32	Mr Raskin, you yourself answered the question you asked me. What you must do is open to you as a Member of Parliament. It is not for a committee chairman to advise you on this. You are applying the possibilities given to you by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u33	Mr President, Minister, this is a delayed question, but no less important. To achieve climate neutrality, we need to get rid of fossil energy. It is known that many roads lead to this. That's what makes the subject so interesting. One of those roads is heat. That is where we still have to fix the social rate for heat. There is today a social tariff for energy and natural gas. Legally, that should actually be there for heat and you have already communicated about it. How's the work going? Among other things, an opinion from the CREG was needed. I'd like an update. How are you looking at the financing of that social heat rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u34	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, Mr Dermagne and myself are jointly responsible for the social tariff, including the social rate for heat. We have also started this work from January. One of the first things we have done is indeed a letter to the CREG requesting our opinion by the end of March. In the meantime, we have received this effectively. There was consultation between the CREG, my cabinet, the administration and, of course, Mr Dermagne's cabinet on the further work on the social tariff heat. It is then very specific about its application rules. No consultation with the Regions has yet taken place. We would first like to discuss the advice of the CREG within the bosom of the government and then start consultations with the Regions. I assume that we will get the legal framework around the social tariff heat around in the autumn. We are working hard on it so that we can give an incentive to the development of the market. This is very important, especially for social housing where heat projects are under way. On the one hand, it is about the realisation of the projects, but on the other hand, the greening of heat is very important in our climate objective, and, of course, for the residents themselves, in making that social tariff accessible. Vulnerable people who happen to heat their homes with warmth should also be able to enjoy that social rate. Financing will have to be based on a number of assumptions of market development. This is also addressed in the CREG opinion. It is clear that in the first phase it will be impossible to socialise the cost of the social tariff over the users of the heat grid, as we do today with the social tariff for electricity and gas, given the limited number of people connected to it. The measure would then miss its objective. The method of financing will be part of the talks within the government's bosom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your work on this file. You do not have to convince me that this is important for the development of the market today. Some colleagues will wonder whether it is so important, as there are only a small number of people connected today. However, several projects by social housing companies are currently waiting for this scheme to go further, which means that these projects are now on hold. That is, especially in an urban context, where there are still some projects possible, very unfortunate. That's why it's fine that you're working on it. I look forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u36	Madam Secretary, we find together that the gas power plantrush is fully deployed. Recently we have seen several applications for construction, including in Manage, Dilsen-Stokkem, Seraing, Wondelgem, Flémalle, Vilvoorde, Roux and Tessenderlo. In short, within a few years there can be a gas power station in almost every Belgian province. While most projects have already obtained a production permit, the procedure for obtaining a building and environmental permit is still far from being so. In many cases, major questions are asked about the impact of gas plants on nitrogen emissions. In Wallonia this seems to be compensated by introducing a condition into the permit of a new Eneco gas plant. It states that the plant must capture 30% of CO2 and that 150,000 trees must be planted. This is a potential stumbling block for the construction of the power stations that should allow the nuclear exit, given the increase in construction costs and the limited capture technology available today. However, this dossier is not only of great importance for Eneco, it can also place a heavy mortgage on all current plans for the construction of other gas plants. I have a few questions about this. Madam Minister, will the permits for the gas plants be issued in good time so that the planned date for the nuclear exit will not be compromised? Secondly, will Wallonia's proposal to capture 30% CO2 and plant 150,000 trees apply throughout the Belgian territory? Will this question also be asked for other gas plants? What is the government's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u37	I give the floor to Mrs Marghem, whose question concerns both Wallonia and Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u38	No jealous, I'll talk about the north and south of the country!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u39	Community balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u40	Exactly, the waffle effect, which you know well, Mr. President! Madam Minister, first of all, a question about Wallonia. This is the question I asked because the current situation put the problem of the Walloon gas plant ahead of that of the Flemish gas plant. There is no desire to take precedence over each other! Gas power plants are considered, in particular by you, to be indispensable to ensure the supply of electricity to our country after the nuclear release in 2025. However, the construction of these plants does not seem so simple. Indeed, anyone wishing to build a gas plant in Wallonia will have to combine it with a CO2 capture facility. Thus, the construction and environmental permit for the gas plant at Manage states that Eneco will have to capture 30% of its CO2 emissions through a technical facility capable of doing so. This company tried to negotiate with the competent Walloon ministers – Willy Borsus and Céline Tellier – to try to avoid having to install this additional technique, arguing that it was technologically unrealizable and economically unprofitable. Since the two competent ministers failed to adopt a unified position, the original permit continues to apply to Eneco, with that imposition. An expression by Bram Claeys, an energy expert at RAP – an international energy policy NGO – shows that Eneco is obliged by the Walloon government to capture part of CO2, although this technology does not really exist for large gas power plants. It is therefore an external person who comes to offer his technical guarantee to what the operator of the plant in question says. Minister, how do you assess this situation? Is the construction of gas plants in Wallonia a problem? If so, what solution do you propose? Do you think that under such conditions, the construction of gas-fired power plants is realistic in order to cope with the 2025 nuclear exit? That is my question about the francophone side. Now I'm going to the Dutch-speaking side. The planned gas plant in Dilsen-Stokkem will not be licensed by the Limburg provincial administration. The Limburg deputation refused to apply for an environmental permit for this gas plant. This refusal follows the negative opinion of the Provincial Environmental Permits Committee. The public environmental impact survey also recorded 1,225 objections from residents and interested persons. Following what it agreed to call the nitrogen stop, the Flemish Minister Zuhal Demir had already warned that permits for gas-fired power stations would be a problem. The projected power plant is – or rather, was – 920 Mw. This setback does not augur well for the other gas plants planned on Flemish territory and the exit of nuclear power. Minister, have you ever consulted the Ministers of the Regions on this matter? If so, what was the result of this consultation? How do you assess the consequences of this event on the exit of nuclear power? How do you assess the price impact for consumers, now that one of the planned gas plants cannot be realized and others could follow in the same direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u41	Mr Briers, with regard to the federal production licences, Article 4 of the Electricity Act provides that participants in the CRM auctions must already have a production licence for their projects or have applied for it no later than 15 days after the launch of the auction and must then eventually obtain it 20 days before the registration date. There is sufficient time to process and approve the application. A number of committee meetings have been held in this connection in response to other questions. At that time I indicated that I do not expect any problems in this respect. As regards the regional permit, your second question, I would like to refer to my answer to a similar question from Mr Ravyts. Same for Mrs. Marghem. That is Mr Ravyts' question of 25 March 2021, to which I replied at the committee meeting of 30 March. In any case, the work of the federal government has largely been completed, in the sense that we have adopted the QB volume at first reading. A final decision on the volume now falls on Friday. After that we also have to finish the further KBs. As far as design is concerned, what we have to do on the federal side is largely abyss. That doesn't mean there are no more challenges. It is therefore up to the other governments to take up their share of the responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, this is the time to work together. It is about the security of our supply and the growth of renewable energy. This is a shared responsibility of all governments, in the interests of our citizens and businesses. Our country is complex, but citizens and businesses must not suffer. Before dealing with the consequences of the exit from nuclear power, I would like first of all to point out that we have had this debate on many occasions. In any case, five of the seven units will close. There is no doubt about this and it is not questioned by anyone, either on the part of an operator or on the part of a political party. No one wants to extend these abilities. This means that we will need CRM. That is why I say that this is a shared responsibility of all governments, in the interests of our citizens. I come to the price impact for consumers if one of the plants could not be built or if others could follow. The question of price impact is, of course, more general. The first step in regulating the cost of CRM has been decided in this Parliament in particular. The CRM resolution framed the cost of CRM by setting price limits on one side and pay as bid on the other. Of course, the more competition, the more positive the price effect will be. The effect may be different to T-4 and T-1, a problem that you have already raised in your other questions, and also in view of the Haulogy study that has been conducted in this regard. Currently, several projects are still on the table. From a price point of view, I am not very concerned because this is not just about the amount of projects. Now it is no longer only at the federal level to assume responsibility, but the other authorities must also take their share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u42	Mr President, Minister, you are right to say that my second question concerns regional matter, but I deliberately put it. After all, you are always talking about the shared responsibility of all governments. With your knowledge, I think you should have the courage to take on a coordinating role. We expect you to do the same. That was the reason for my second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. My reply will be a little long, even if I will try to respect the time given to me. Some fundamental principles must still be recalled. The flexibility of gas power plants is absolutely necessary when developing renewables. This was demonstrated in the previous government by the installation of just over 1,500 MW of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea. From the moment the steering wheel is increased in terms of intermittent energy in the electrical mix, flexibility is required. So everyone agrees that gas-fired power plants are needed as part of our electricity mix. On the one hand, you say, which we obviously do not have the proof and as if this was the responsibility of the operator, that the operator has decided to stop operating at least five nuclear power plants. On the other hand, the government has reached an agreement which it is implementing that Belgium will comply with the law of exit from nuclear power in 2025, which implies the exit of all nuclear power plants from the electricity mix, and that a plan B would be put in place in the event of unforeseen events – and only in the event of unforeseen events. First of all, this unforeseen event will have to be assessed on the basis of a monitoring of security of supply and price, which has still not been seen in colour and which has yet been asked of you several times. Secondly, it will be necessary to see whether there are any practical difficulties in the installation of gas-fired power plants. That is precisely the subject of the questions that are being asked to you today. Indeed, there are practical difficulties. And you address this fundamental issue through tangent by saying that you think, in other words, you hope, that there will be enough competition. But what do we notice? That the difficulty created by the Regions will result in a sharp reduction in competition, which will therefore have an impact on the price, but also on the evaluation of CRM at European level, but not just because support is state aid. The crucial question is whether this state aid is in line with European guidelines or not. For the time being, we have not yet received an answer to these questions. We're in the most complete blur. I do not have any advice to give you, minister, I think you are large and reasonable enough to form your own point of view. However, I believe that consultation with the Regions is fundamental, in the sense that, even if each takes its share of responsibilities, they cannot be left to decide alone what they are doing on their territory without encouraging them to grant the permit under the best conditions, given the general plan that you are pursuing. If this is not the case, competition will be very limited, since large operators will obviously overtake others and receive the price they are asking for – that is, the highest. Besides, that's what you're doing. Indeed, you explain to us that, for new gas plants, you will go to the maximum of what the interparliamentary resolution provides, namely 75 euros/kW, unlike the 68.4 euros that the energy administration provides for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u44	Mrs Marghem, you have doubled your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u45	That's because I had two questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u46	No, even in this case, you've overtaken it. You were entitled to a minute, but your line lasted four minutes. It's good for once!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u47	Minister, I asked that question some time ago. It will therefore deserve an adjustment that I will communicate in my reply. CREG warns that federal energy bill charges can double for an average family. Federal taxes on electricity do not constitute the bulk of the costs that drive the energy bill up - it is the costs charged by the Regions, which is good news - but they are likely to rise sharply in the years to come. Although I have managed to significantly reduce the amount of subsidies granted to operators of the last three offshore parks by EUR 4 billion, the costs of green energy certificates will increase as a result of the completion of these parks and the installation of new ones in the North Sea. The support mechanism for gas power plants and other technologies will also increase costs on the invoice. You have asked CREG to carry out a study to develop a unique tool that allows not only to develop policies, but also to monitor them. It must also prepare concrete simulations in a study that takes into account the federal coalition agreement that federal energy taxes should be reduced. You also said that an affordable energy bill is essential for citizens and businesses. I fully agree with this statement, but beyond words, many things remain completely unclear and uncertain to date. Have there been any consultations with the sector on this matter? And what does he think? What measures are you planning and what is the concrete timetable for this? Do you intend to make an additional effort and which one to keep the energy bill affordable? What, moreover, does it mean to you in practice "an affordable level of cost to be borne by households" in view of the CREG declarations referred to above?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u48	Mrs Marghem, I refer to my previous answer given at the previous committee meeting on the energy standard at which I explained the steps to be taken to your colleague Len Dierick. The action plan is that of the energy standard. I have already mentioned that this standard is a work in progress. In February and March, the first discussions with stakeholders took place - representatives of the Belgian industry and companies in general - as well as with representatives of residential consumers and trade unions. The approach has always been welcomed and it has been stressed that it is indeed important to operate the energy standard for all the different federal elements of the cost of the energy bill. I received last week's advice from the CREG Advisory Board. Members representing various stakeholders drafted an opinion on their idea of the energy standard. In its response, the Advisory Board emphasized the following elements. The results of the annual study commissioned by FORBEG, the association of all regulators in the country, should serve as the basis for the benchmarks that we will use to establish the energy standard. A more detailed understanding of the issues seems necessary. In addition, attention should be paid to differences in household profiles, particularly for vulnerable clients. The energy standard will be for everyone. As to the form that the energy standard should take, the Advisory Board indicated that the full invoice should be used as a benchmark. In this context, a distinction should be made between the different components in order to have a transparent view of the causes and effects. However, I am pleased to read that the Advisory Board is understanding the need to invest in the energy transition. The Government is committed to monitoring the cost-benefit ratio of this transition. I thank all those who have devoted time to this work that I will use as a guide during the work. With regard to timing, there will be an IKW in September and proposals will be made to the Council of Ministers in November. I also wanted to react to the article published in La Libre today. Following last year's CRM resolution, a study was requested from CREG to find out how to offset the cost of CRM on consumer invoices. In response, CREG proposed to levy the entire offshore surtax from the state budget, which would cost €842 million in 2026. However, this is not the question I asked the CREG. The $842 million is not the cost of the CRM. I therefore asked the CREG for a new study with a new proposal and asked it to use another working method. We must actively seek mechanisms that respect the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am curious to see the results of the new study, with another method, which you asked for from CREG. I will come back to you about this method so that we can discuss its compatibility with the government agreement or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u50	Madam Minister, I am not a conspiracy thinker, but it is strange that the Federal Council of Ministers of 25 March adopted a preliminary draft law to harmonise electricity and gas laws with European energy policy. It follows, inter alia, a judgment of the European Court of Justice of 3 December 2020, which considers that Belgium should correct certain shortcomings in the transposition of previous directives. In accordance with those directives, the federal energy regulator is given more powers, not only with regard to the technical regulation, but also with regard to the powers of the regulator when it identifies problems of competition and unfair commercial practices or anticompetitive behaviour. Madam Minister, a few days later, you apparently instructed the regulator to investigate whether suppliers might have abused their right to ask for a guarantee in the light of a case in which a supplier apparently asked for a guarantee from an undertaking active in a severely affected sector not only after credit analysis but also on the basis of the NACE code. Is it true that this would be a standard procedure on the part of the supplier, whereby a guarantee based on that analysis could also be requested on the basis of a credit analysis? Can you explain your question and order the CREG regarding the possible abuse by suppliers of their ability to ask for a guarantee? Have you received more information from the regulator about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u51	Madam Secretary, the subject is very close to my heart. The story of cabaretière Els The Creator must certainly be looked at. The fact that energy companies are targeting particularly vulnerable sectors from the corona crisis with higher guarantees seems to me to be very rude. Energy companies can indeed ask for a guarantee in the event of a suspicion of debt or for other reasons on the basis of which a refund cannot be paid. I hope, however, that energy companies will not systematically use these reasons in relation to certain occupational categories. What do you think of this practice, in this case of the energy company Total? Is this a broader issue? Has the CREG already taken a position on this matter? What criteria do a supplier have to apply for a guarantee? Will you take an initiative to avoid such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u52	I find such an attitude unacceptable. The cultural sector is one of the most affected sectors in the covid crisis, as is the catering sector. No one has asked to be affected by the covid crisis. The demand for a guarantee simply because the person concerned is employed in a sector which is necessarily closed can not. The question is whether it is a single case or not. That is why I immediately asked the CREG to investigate that. We have not yet received the report from the CREG, which also considered it a striking case, but the first signals we have already received show that it is not a question of a structural approach for suppliers. The ombudsperson has also confirmed to us that there is no significant increase in the number of complaints about this so far. The case cited concerns a group purchase. The CREG is in the process of mapping the general terms and conditions of the group purchases. The question of safeguards is an element of that. At federal level, the Consumer Agreement contains a number of provisions on safeguards. If the consumer is asked to deposit a security guarantee of amounts due, it must be accurately and objectively defined. The same applies to the basis and modalities for the calculation of the guarantee. The conditions for requesting the guarantees shall be determined at regional level. The consumer can ask for the refund of the guarantee once he has paid all his invoices promptly for one year, without payment reminder. This applies only to consumer guarantees. I would like to stress once again that, because of the covid crisis, asking for guarantees to customers in certain sectors is not a sign of solidarity. I'm committed to a leading supplier market. For me, this means, on the one hand, that we must be able to count on strong suppliers who are committed to consumer protection and, on the other hand, that customers can also count on transparent prices, transparent conditions and fair treatment. A crisis like corona makes that just more pertinent. A level playing field is important here. If I get the indication that this would not be the case, we will not fail to take initiatives, but we are still waiting for feedback from the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for sharing our indignation at the story of Els De Creator. I sincerely hope that it is a single fact, but it is good that it is being examined. I would also like to thank you for your decisiveness, because you immediately requested an investigation from the CREG. It is important that we wait for the full results of that study. The first signals seem positive: there would be no structural approach. If problems are identified and structural measures are needed, at least you will find an ally in us, because we, too, were truly outraged by the story that owners of things that were very badly affected by the corona crisis and were obliged to close are being caught again by energy suppliers. It is really a step too far to discriminate against them. We look forward to the CREG's investigation and will certainly not fail to take action if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u54	Madam Secretary, you did the right thing by asking the CREG to investigate. I am, of course, pleased that this might not be about a structural approach by suppliers. It is also a good thing that you have outlined the passages in the consumer agreement, in particular on consumer contract guarantees. We look forward to the lessons from the CREG's research, with a view to policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u55	Madam Minister, I have already said that the problem is very close to my heart, and it seems to me that this is also the case for my colleagues. I am therefore very pleased with your clear condemnation of these practices, because energy is a basic requirement and everyone must have access to affordable energy. The fact that the first signals show that it is probably not about a structural approach for energy producers and suppliers of gas, reassures me in part. The greatest reassurance comes mainly from the last passage of your reply, in which you make it very clear that you are committed to strong suppliers, but with sufficient transparency to consumers. You will always find the necessary support for this with our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u56	Madam Minister, I am still learning about the powers of the CREG. Apparently, the European Commission has now opened an investigation into EPEX SPOT. The power exchange may have abused its dominant market position in at least 6 European Member States, including Belgium. EPEX SPOT Belgium is an electricity exchange that facilitates the short-term exchange of energy blocks for the injection and purchase of electricity in the Belgian bidding zone. EPEX SPOT Belgium offers a platform that daily releases energy blocks for delivery via an auction, the day ahead segment. After this auction, it offers a continuous release of energy blocks during the day, up to 1 hour before delivery, the intraday segment. In this way, buyers and suppliers can best respond to the expected production. Especially for renewable energy from, for example, sun and wind, output can best be predicted just before production. The European Commission considers it possible that the power exchange has restricted competition in this so-called intraday market. In concrete terms, the power exchange would have prevented competitors' customers from accessing the entire market in at least 6 European Member States, including Belgium. These practices could raise electricity prices for consumers and ultimately also slow down the greening of the sector. The rules on the establishment, access and functioning of markets for the exchange of energy blocks are governed by the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market. The CREG has an important advisory role in the market regulations of the stock exchange approved by ministerial decision. Madam Secretary, to what extent are you aware of the content of this ongoing investigation into EPEX SPOT and what are your findings on this matter? There is an obligation to report on the stock exchanges in the context of monitoring in the context of the REMIT Regulation. What exactly is the role of the CREG in relation to this monitoring? Is the CREG involved in any way in this investigation by the European Commission, as an information provider, of course?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u57	Mr Ravyts, this is a DG Competition investigation into the possible abuse of a dominant position. It is therefore a question of competition law under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which involves only the competent competition authorities directly or indirectly. For Belgium, this is the Belgian Competition Authority. It is therefore not an investigation into infringements of the regulation applicable to the electricity sector. Several countries are involved in this. Since the investigation is initiated by DG Competition, national competition authorities do not need to initiate a separate investigation. This is provided for in the Regulation on the implementation of the competition rules. The instructions of the European Commission shall be confidential and shall be subject to professional secrecy. Therefore, no further information has been strengthened on this issue. I was informed about the research because it concerns the main electricity exchange in Belgium and is one of the frontrunners in Europe around market coupling. Then, of course, I have also informed myself of what might be the problem. This is covered by professional secrecy, but my estimate is that probably a discussion about sharing liquidity in the last hours of electricity supply was the result of some complaints from other exchanges. This would be due to differences of interpretation over the so-called gate closure time. It is recorded through the Guideline on Capacity Allocation and Congestion Management. This Directive provides for intraday order books to be shared and applied to the capacities still available on the interconnectors. I certainly do not want to anticipate the investigation, which will undoubtedly clarify some issues in the operation and, above all, the cooperation of the grants. Indeed, the REMIT Regulation gives the CREG the power to monitor compliance with a number of rules on market integrity, transparency and the prevention of, for example, insider trading. This regulation applies to exchanges and network operators, but also to market participants in particular. Monitoring is carried out on basic data and transaction data collected through market platforms, the so-called Registered Reporting Mechanism at ACER. ACER analyses these data and can detect suspicious behavior itself, but on the basis of complaints from ACER, CREG or other regulators in other Member States, investigations can also be initiated. As far as I know, the investigation by DG Competition was not motivated by a possible infringement of the REMIT Regulation, but rather against general infringements of competition law. According to my information, neither the CREG nor ACER are therefore involved in DG Competition's investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your very interesting answer. The issue of grants has not been so much addressed here. I am therefore grateful that you have given the possible problems and your assessment in a nutshell. I'll try to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u59	Question No 55016227C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, the last barometer of energy and water insecurity, a publication produced on the initiative of the King Baudouin Foundation, has just been published. The situation remains dramatic. Unfortunately, it has become a constant over the years. More than a fifth of Belgian households, exactly 20.7 per cent, are in energy poverty. Of course, these figures vary by region. They climb to 27.6% in Brussels and 28.3% in Wallonia. Lack of income from work increases the risk of being confronted with this scourge, but it is false to think that the rest of the population is protected. Thus, 15.7 per cent of households with income and even 3 per cent of those with two or more incomes also face these difficulties. This phenomenon has a greater impact on women, as they lead 80 per cent of single-parent families and are largely over-represented among single-parent families aged 65 and over, while, as we know, earning less money than men in the same age group. The picture portrayed is, you will agree, very dark; the most frightening in all this is probably that the data I have just listed relate to 2019, before the health crisis and its socio-economic consequences. Containment on the one hand, job and/or income losses on the other, are two factors that cannot be expected to improve in the near future. Minister, have you been aware of this study? Have your services been able to objectiveize the evolution of this issue over the past year? How do you respond to the fears of the social actors involved in this struggle?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u61	Mr Ben Achour, yes, I have read this study and I am very close to it. This is a very important tool which is, moreover, the basis of our parliamentary work, such as the cancellation of the freeze on the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund. This year, the study focuses more on housing and the importance of investing more in housing isolation. However, this matter is a matter of regional competence. The federal government, for its part, has expanded the target group of the social tariff in order to support people in precarious situations during this health and socio-economic crisis. As Federal Minister for Energy, I am partly responsible for measures to combat energy insecurity. My competence therefore mainly concerns price policy, such as the social tariff for electricity and natural gas, a competence shared with my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, but also the Social Heating Fund which intervenes in the energy bill of oil customers and the Gas and Electricity Fund on the basis of which the CPAS can establish curative and preventive measures. The barometer of energy insecurity of the King Baudouin Foundation is an excellent tool, which shows that energy insecurity is not an isolated fact and that this phenomenon must be tackled from several areas of expertise for which the Regions are primarily competent. I am referring to the isolation of homes, efficient energy appliances and the installation of renewable energy. At the end of the week, in close cooperation with Mrs Lalieux, I will submit to the Council of Ministers a preliminary draft law which will establish criteria for assessing the number of households in energy poverty. It will be a powerful tool for us to pursue a targeted policy that addresses the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Indeed, this barometer is a really interesting statistical tool, which provides a particularly rich basis for work, both for Parliament and for the government. I am therefore pleased that we share these common references. We are clearly in the presence of shared competences with the Regions. Madam Minister, I know that you are sensitive to the problem because we worked together when you were on the other side of these benches, but I really invite you to engage in a proactive dialogue with the Regions in order to address this problem in common and, when it comes to your exclusive competence, to show the greatest possible ambition. Indeed, when one looks closely at who is affected by the problem, one becomes aware of the very strong social dimension which particularly affects the already extremely fragile audiences and which cannot be left at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u63	Mr President, Minister, there is, of course, a great deal of attention for COP26 in Glasgow from the powers of your fellow Minister Khattabi. However, there is also the International Energy Agency, which announced as early as January 2021 that it would prepare the world's first comprehensive energy roadmap to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. That new special report, The World's Roadmap to Net Zero, will set out in detail what is needed of governments, companies, investors and citizens to completely decarbonise the energy sector and bring emissions to a path corresponding to a 1.5-degree rise in temperature. The new roadmap will be published in three weeks' time and will be an important element in the run-up to COP26. Apparently, on March 31, 2021, you participated in the live streaming of the COP26 Net Zero Summit, organised around five ministerial panel discussions. It examined, inter alia, how countries can work more effectively together to ensure that long-term net zero emission targets are translated into concrete measures in the run-up to COP26. At the same time, in January 2021, the IEA announced the new global commission Our Inclusive Energy Future, which will be led by the Danish Prime Minister. In that committee, Heads of Government and Ministers will examine the social and economic impact on individuals and communities, on aspects such as affordability and honesty, with the aim of putting people at the heart of the transition. Could you explain your participation in the summit organised by the International Energy Agency? What was the Belgian approach? The next question may also be put to Mrs Khattabi, but I will also put it to you. Is Belgium involved in the Committee Our Inclusive Energy Future? If so, what are the Belgian approaches in view of the COP26 recommendations? Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that there is much to be done recently about the social dimension of the carbon price problem. There are a lot of articles about it. A transition that increases inequality must be avoided at all costs. That is a very important concern for our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u64	Minister, published on April 20, the Global Energy Review of the International Energy Agency (IEA) proposes an analysis of the evolution of energy demand and carbon emissions during the year 2021. It also provides an overview of how the rebound in economic activity and energy consumption in each country impact global CO2 emissions. In this regard, the analysis refers to an increase in global energy demand of 4.6 per cent over 2020, an increase of 0.5 per cent over 2019. In addition, global energy-related CO2 emissions are moving towards their second largest annual increase ever. Madam Minister, we do not fail to believe that you have read this report. What is your return to him? What lessons can be drawn from this with regard to the recovery policy in particular? Finally, on March 31, 2021, the COP26 Allied Summit on Clean Energy Transitions took place. What is your return to him? What are the points relating to the elements included today in the Global Energy Review 2021 and the contributions of this summit to Belgium's energy policy and its Recovery and Resilience Plan (PRR)?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u65	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, I did indeed take part in the meeting to which you refer. It is an event organized by the IEA as a think tank to see what role the IEA could play within COP26. It was a one-off meeting with various personalities with special legal knowledge of the energy market and with people from the international energy world with close contacts with industry. I participated in the Ensuring People-Centred Transitions panel. During my intervention, but also during my participation in the meeting of the Global Commission on People-Centred Clean Energy Transitions, I focused on the importance of changing behaviour, ensuring that people understand and support the energy transition. In particular, I have focused on the fact that we are always passionate about very technical issues, but that the energy transition is still primarily about people and that linking these two issues is a particular challenge for all governments in this country. There is also a separate committee, the Global Commission on People-Centred Clean Energy Transitions. This is also a think tank chaired by the Danish Minister for Energy. The IEA has distilled seven key principles from those meetings with a view to COP26. The mandate for the IEA for COP26 itself remains to be discussed by the Governing Board in June. I will certainly make a plea to put the democratic process of participation at the heart of this. Mr Senesael, as you know, I am very committed to the energy transition and it is therefore crucial that citizens understand and have confidence in this transition. In light of the controversy over the smart meter and solar panels in Flanders, we have seen how important this confidence is. As far as I am concerned and as reflected in the majority agreement, it is also important that the energy transition be inclusive, so that everyone in this country feels involved in the energy transition. The International Energy Agency's Global Energy Review 2021 does not bring good news in the fight against climate change. Rather, it is a message that we are heading towards the second largest annual increase in CO2 emissions ever recorded, which can be somewhat nuanced by comparing with 2019 instead of 2020 of the covid. The conclusion that we risk continuing the trend of CO2 increases in the long term, also after Covid-19 worries me. This shows, once again, that a green recovery is needed if we are to avoid a climate catastrophe. This projected increase in CO2 increases is due to the sharp increase in coal demand, particularly in Asia. This demonstrates the importance of constructive international cooperation for the rapid implementation of the goals recently communicated by many world leaders. The European Union is setting an example with its climate law. The global review of the energy situation 2021 brings not only negative messages but also some elements of hope. For example, the share of electricity generation from renewable resources will reach 30 per cent by 2021, with the largest growth in Asia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u66	Madam Secretary, there's a lot to replicate for me, of course. However, you yourself referred to the figures released by the International Energy Agency on emissions. You also mentioned Asia and China. Madam Secretary, that is the problem. We really need to ensure that the energy transition here in Europe is very social. You mentioned the solar panels, but I would even mention the greening of the company car park, which is also the subject of a lot of discussion within the government. It will really be a question of balance. After all, people are also reading on the Internet and also seeing emissions in other continents, on which very solemn statements are made by new US presidents, but again we are faced with figures by agencies such as the IEA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u67	Minister, thank you for your response. I will make three observations and one reflection. First, as you rightly pointed out, it is necessary to make an inclusive energy transition so that everyone can be involved in the objectives that can be envisaged. Secondly, there is this fight against climate change that is causing concern. It is a matter of avoiding climate catastrophe and it is therefore necessary to have constructive international cooperation. You give elements of hope with renewable energies. On the basis of these three findings, reflection must be based on the recovery and resilience plan that we will have to launch after the covid-19. I think there is a need to develop a strategy in this area. Of course, we are counting on you, your services and your administration to be a leader in the redeployment strategy during this recovery. We will soon have the opportunity to come back to proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u68	Madam Minister, we had already had an exchange of views on door-to-door sales and distance selling. The latter is certainly still present today, door-to-door sales might be a little more difficult. Someone pointed out to me that he got a proposal through a commitment link. That already sounded very suspicious. I think it's some kind of telemarketing trick. I would particularly like to talk here about prior consent to telemarketing. It is perhaps important that suppliers or intermediaries obtain an express written consent from the final customers concerned. I know that you are working on the revision of the consumer agreement. I therefore thought it would be an ideal time to draw attention, on behalf of my group, to this problem. It's important to us. Maybe that prior consent to telemarketing is a solution. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u69	Mr Verduyckt, when it comes to consumer protection, it is crucial for me in all cases that we create sufficient transparency for consumers in the energy market. The market must be able to play. Consumers must be able to make their choice, but consumers must also have all the necessary information in a transparent manner so that they can make an informed choice. If the consumer is approached by telephone, it must be made very clear to the consumer that it is about a sales interview. If this does not happen, there will be deception and unfair commercial practices. At the same time, the information obligation must be sufficiently high to ensure that a customer can only conclude a contract by express consent. In particular, with regard to telephone sales, consumers should always be able to register on the bell-me-not list. If people have registered on that list, then it is no longer allowed to call those people who do direct marketing, including energy suppliers who sell contracts by telephone. If they do, they risk a fine. Since the increased information obligation of suppliers and intermediaries is also the subject of the EMD Directive, it was decided jointly with the relevant Cabinets to align the work on the Consumer Agreement. I will present the texts for the transposition of the EMD Directive to the Council of Ministers at first reading this week for approval. Afterwards, an opinion of the Council of State and a consultation with the Regions on this matter will follow. Following the opinion of the Council of State, a second reading will take place or the text will be amended if there are no significant substantive changes. We will organise the stakeholder survey to evaluate the consumer agreement shortly afterwards, after the first reading following the transposition of the EMD Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u70	Madam Secretary, I can only welcome your starting points. Transparency is indeed essential, especially in a market that is in danger of becoming increasingly complex, so that citizens have the information to make a good decision. I wanted to put the matter on the table, because you are implementing the EMD Directive and the consumer agreement. That is an important point of attention for us. Finally, I would like to thank you for the tip on the bell-me-no-more list. I'm gonna see what I can use it for, 'cause I have some ideas about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u71	This question is in line with the previous one. Parliament and the government pay a great deal of attention to the simplification of the energy bill. We will soon be discussing a motion for a resolution on this subject. My question concerns the obligation for consumers to cancel additional services separately on contracts. Some consumers forget to do so and still have to pay for it, while they have already switched suppliers. That doesn't have to be a problem, but that can sometimes lead to complex situations. You are working on the simplified invoice. Would you like to place the additional services on the simplified invoice or is it better to communicate separately? Would you like to impose an obligation to inform suppliers about the contract change in the case of additional services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u72	Mr Verduyckt, unfortunately my answer is also somewhat in line. The energy market is on the move and transparency must be sufficiently high. We must ensure that the consumer knows where he is going, even when it comes to the termination of his contract. Of course, this also applies to service contracts. The fact that the contracts are linked does not in itself have to be a problem, but the consumer must have transparent information. There are indeed several projects in progress. You have already referred to the simplified energy bill and, of course, I would like to link the evaluation of the consumer agreement to that. In the context of the review of the consumer agreement, we must take account of changes in the market, which include energy transition. This also means that we need to clarify whether or not transparency is guaranteed in certain areas, which is, of course, also linked to confidence in the market. Mr Verduyckt, my answer is a little vague, because I am really counting on the questioning of stakeholders in the context of the consumer agreement. It should also address the issues you raise in full. I am waiting for the advice to decide whether this will be done via the simplified invoice or whether there will be an additional obligation to provide information. So we can choose the most workable solution. It cannot, of course, be the intention that transparency should lead to an overload of mandatory notifications on the invoice, so that we create an annex to the invoice. The matter is being continued, but I know that I can count on you and other groups, as witnessed by the many questions put by various committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u73	Madam Minister, today, and this statement is unusual for Parliament, I can live with your vague answer, in the sense that we see it as a continuation of a solution to a complex issue, in which we see nodes with the simplified invoice. When developing the latter, you must indeed take into account a great many things. I note that you want to make your work on future proof. That certainly makes sense and perhaps it is interesting to come back every year with a review of the consumer agreement, but that is not the intention. It is also good that you take a look at how you can integrate this into the ongoing work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u74	Madam Minister, following the exchange of views on CRM, you explained why technology with limited energy content has been given very low derating factors. However, some research and comparison with the way they were used in the past lead to different conclusions. It seems that a theoretical model is being applied in the context of the depreciation, which certainly does not seem to be the way in which those capacities have been used in the past. Thanks to Elijah's records, we were able to take a look at that. For the Coo and Plate Taille pumping stations, this can be verified until 2012. A limited exercise teaches that those abilities are actually driven by peak demand, not so much by the merit order. This seems to be a very important element because it makes it possible that the employability of this kind of technology could be much greater in the event of near scarcity than is currently assumed on the basis of the merit order. Elijah also assumes that. The variables used also do not correspond to the core figures of the different pump units. For example, in January, during the meeting of the tax force, Elia indicated that they count on 4 hours full power and 5,700 MWh per day for a single charge. That doesn't seem to be consistent with the data I have. Madam Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, based on the key figures, the maximum duration is between 5 and 6 hours. How do you justify that this is only taken into account for four hours? Secondly, the maximum production seems to go up to 7,000 MWh, which is true on the basis of the power and the duration of deployment. However, Elijah assumes that it is only 5,700 MWh. Finally, the use of the merit order to calculate the bet in near-scarce does not seem to match the practice I can see here. How do you handle that determination? Does this lead to a review for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u75	Mr Wollants, your question builds on the discussion we had before Easter about the volume parameters and what we need to do about the rating factor of storage capacity. The pumping plants are fully modelled by Elia according to the known technical characteristics, the energy content relative to the maximum power or the number of hours a pumping plant can deliver to full power. That is also included in the calculations as such. For example, in the model there is no limit to 4 hours. As far as we can see, these four hours, as mentioned in the documents, are generalisation or even a mediation of the two pumping stations known in Belgium. As regards the merit order, both the CREG and a number of market players made the same comment. Elia confirms that their model optimizes the dispatch of power plants to minimize the total cost. Strictly speaking, this is not based on the merit order, because it optimizes over a total period, rather than at the time itself. Perfect foresight, actually. Following consultation with Elia and the operators of the pumping plants, it was agreed to make abstraction of the efficiency of the charging cycle of the pumping plants and to consider their dispatching equivalent to those for the demand study. The category for pumping plants could therefore be merged with those for large-scale storage, i.e. batteries. The derating factors could thus be expanded according to the number of hours that energy can be delivered. For example, we get a similar table for all types of storage with the same derating factors as for the demand study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u76	Madam Secretary, there is no doubt that those four hours do not apply anywhere. That's not a mediation either. Actually, it's three units: Coo-1, Coo-2 and Platte Taille. They're all over five hours. That 4 hours actually has no place in the table, but this was explained to Elia's user group by Elia. I find that very bizarre. Secondly, if there is an opportunity to bring about a tie-up that will bring about more relevant deployment of the pumping plants, which is ultimately the purpose of the whole story, namely to ensure that these pumping plants are included as they are effectively used and as they will be deployed at the time of severe scarcity, this must be possible. If we're gonna tie it to the table of the Demand Side Response, we're gonna have to be careful. After all, the table that Elijah uses makes a split in the number of hours: 1, 2, 4 and 6 hours. That's why the pumping stations don't get to 6 hours, but they're a long way above 4. Maybe we'll be back in the discussion just now. I'd like to ask you to take a closer look at that. I realize it's short notice, but I'd like to give you that information anyway. Otherwise, we risk contracting too much other capacity that could be involved in a flexible way, but is now forced into a gas plant. We don't want that scenario either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55016659C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u78	Since Mr Cogolati is not present, he cannot ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u79	Madam Minister, although some still call it a certain and firm energy source, on 21 April it became clear once again what effect it would have on a nuclear power plant suddenly to stop. On Wednesday 22 April there was a record price on Elijah's imbalance market. Only a few weeks ago the windmills had to be switched off at sea because negative prices were recorded, while at that time there was just a lot of wind. We also know that Coo's savings will be maintained throughout the summer. In other words, these are all factors that indicate that we need flexibility in the energy market, a system based on innovative energy sources and not sticking to recipes from the past. This leads to some questions about this situation. How long will Tihange 2 be unavailable? What caused the nuclear reactor to shut down? How come the imbalance price was so high? Will this have an impact on prices for end-users? What needs to be done to prevent such problems in the future? What do you do for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u80	Madam Minister, since my colleague has already outlined the situation perfectly, I shall confine myself to my questions. Do you have any information on how long the reactor will not be available? Will that have an impact on security of supply? What effects or elements have led to a record level of imbalance prices? How will you ensure in the future that the prices of imbalances are kept as low as possible? What impact does the planned maintenance of Coo's savings centre have on the energy landscape? What impact does the changes in the energy landscape have on the energy bill of families and companies? What initiatives will you take to keep the impact on the energy bill as low as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u81	Colleagues, I have prepared my answer in two languages and it starts with a piece in French. At its restart on Thursday, 23 April 2021, the Tihange power plant decoupled itself from the grid at approximately 11:40 p.m. following a turbine activation. The latter is due to a lack of depression in the condenser located in the non-nuclear part of the plant. The decrease in power of the reactor was carried out in accordance with the procedures. After the necessary interventions, the reactor power can be increased and the unit put back on the grid. The return was scheduled for Saturday, April 24, 2021. This did not go as planned with reboot problems, but it was resolved quickly. Tihange 2 is again fully available. The availability of Engie's thermal units and of each producer in our country can be consulted on the operator's transparency platform in full transparency, in accordance with REMIT. The availability of our nuclear power stations has often been debated in Parliament for many years since the many problems and maintenance work since 2012. From 2019 onwards, things seem to be getting a bit normal. This year we can even count on all seven power stations. Of course, sudden technical problems can never be excluded, but it must be said that they are fairly limited. However, the impact of a failure is directly significant, especially if a temporary flexible source such as the Coo plant is not available and other flexible capacity in the market is needed. That brings me to the impact on the price. Elijah is watching over the balance in the control zone. Each balancer must ensure the balance between reduction and injection, each for its own customer portfolio, and that for every quarter of an hour. Where the balance-holders are unable to do so, Elijah may take the necessary measures to remedy the remaining imbalance. For this purpose, Elia organises a balancing market and establishes the reserves of flexible capacity offered by balancing service providers, the so-called BSPs. Those BSPs also bring in an activation price of that capacity. If Elijah has to activate those reserves, then those costs will be reflected in the imbalance rates. The activation price of the reserve is a free price determined by the operators themselves and set in Belgium at a maximum of 13,500 euros per megawatt hour. After the fall of Tihange 2, Elia had to intervene and activate a lot of reserves, especially in the first two quarters after the incident. The reserves are then activated according to the bids from the lowest price to the highest price. In this case, a bid has also been activated at 3,200 euros per megawatt hour. It was about an offer based on demand management. The need to go so deep in reserves was therefore also a consequence of the fact that an important source of flexibility, especially Coo's power station, accounts for the 1,000 megawatts, is in maintenance from 15 April to 15 July. Remarkable and special is that since the construction of the power station in the 1970s it has been since it was completely unavailable. Coo's power station has only one base basin, which has now been wiped out for work. Coo has two upper basins, so far in Coo was always up to about fifty percent available. The impact of what is happening on the market on the electricity bill itself is difficult to estimate. This impact depends on a number of factors, such as the contract concluded between the end user and its supplier. Is this closed, for example, on the basis of a fixed price or on the basis of the day-ahead market? Is this on balance being passed on? Does the price formula provide for a transfer of certain risks? This means that in most cases an exceptional price peak does not have a significant impact on the final invoice. Indeed, the price peak is linked to the day-ahead market and forward wholesale prices. Certainly the contracts of residential end-users will not be affected by this. For the contracts on the market that are really directly linked to what is happening directly on the market, there will obviously be an impact. In any case, the severe shocks we see in the price imbalance show that the modernisation of our energy system is absolutely necessary. Mrs Buyst referred to the closure of the windmills, while the wind was blowing because of the negative prices. We are in the last straight line towards the investment mechanism, in particular the CRM, which also shows that it will not be a day too late and which also means that we must immediately reflect on flexibility, its impact, the way in which it can be framed, and other mechanisms. We must therefore also take this change into account in our design. Our market is changing physically. There's physically a lot more flexibility. We must therefore also pay attention in our design and the framework of the market to the encouragement of flexibility. At the same time, we must ensure that there is some provision so that there are no excessive risks which are then passed on to the invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u82	Mr Cogolati, the minister specifically provided for a paragraph in French for you. So you're entitled to a reply. No? No reply. Mrs Buyst has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Fortunately, the defect causing Tihange 2 to shut down occurred in the non-nuclear part. I understood that correctly from the French paragraph. Although things didn't go quite as they should, Tihange 2 was restarted on April 24th. You noted that since 2017, the plants have not so often stopped, but we must also dare to see that our Belgian nuclear park is aging and that means more risk of wear and tear and defects, and thus of reactor failure. That is how we come to the core: we need flexible sources. We need to focus on flexible sources that allow us to organise our energy market with much more flexibility, in such a way that we can make more use of the sources of renewable energy, which we all want and need to make more use of. In this way, we can ensure that our energy market is green and that the invoice remains affordable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u84	Madam Minister, fortunately, this time a safety problem was not present and there were no risks associated with the failure of the nuclear reactor. We have indeed had a lot of discussions on the subject. In fact, the availability of nuclear power plants has improved in the recent period. We can count on it more now. It's been different once. Now the nuclear reactor failure unexpectedly coincided with the lower capacity production of Coo's power plant, which is under maintenance. I am pleased to note that there is no impact on the energy bill of residential customers. Of course, I certainly support the call for a more flexible energy system. The CRM will be an important step in this, but it does not end there. We need to take further steps. Our design also needs to be adapted. We can only underline that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u85	Madam Minister, you are clearly continuing the fight against unfair commercial practices, as you promised. We do that in Parliament too, I would say hand in hand, but we cannot do that now. We read in the press about the government's intervention with regard to the company Mega. In the meantime, the Economic Inspectorate has reported and I would like to hear directly from you what the results of the investigation were.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u86	Mr President, my question is a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u87	I take this opportunity to insert a short sanitary stop. But don't worry, I'll make sure your and my timing correspond. Mr Wollants will be watching the right course of events.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u88	Mr President, I hope that Mr Wollants will take into account that I may speak for 20 seconds longer. Madam Secretary, you have delivered your letters and the answers from the Economic Inspectorate to our committee. In the press it appeared that Mega, which is actually a brand name, since the supplier is Power Online, cheats on the consumer with dormant contracts. As a result, after the expiry of his energy contract, the consumer automatically receives a contract with the same name and conditions, but with a higher energy price. The Economic Inspectorate spoke of unfair commercial practices and established a pv. Power Online is now likely to be fined. In the press and in the letter from the Economic Inspectorate, we read that Power Online would take steps to rectify the situation. This has now been partly done and it has been promised that further steps will be taken. Earlier, EDF Luminus and Eneco also announced to stop the practice of dormant contracts. Madam Minister, we have always said here that this should be regulated by law. This afternoon, Mr Verduyckt's bill on the subject is again on the agenda of our committee. During the discussion evening of Thinktank Minerva about the future of the energy system in Belgium, you explicitly referred to the pending bill. You indicated that you want to work on a structural solution, where it no longer depends on the minister whether sleeping contracts are being abused. As a reminder, Mega's case dates back to 2014, if I read it correctly. The legislative framework must now provide that this practice is no longer possible. Then I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. What are the follow-up steps regarding the dormant contracts of Eneco, EDF and Mega? By what time do they undertake to stop doing so permanently? The Economic Inspectorate referred to unfair commercial practices. This is probably also the case with Eneco and EDF. Will the Economic Inspectorate also investigate their practices? Hun brief eindigt immers states: "We cannot draw general conclusions from the results of this investigation. It is necessary to analyse on a case-by-case basis." What is your position on the legislative solution for dormant contracts? Do you support Mr Verduyckt's bill that we are about to deal with? In the meantime, I have seen amendments tabled by the majority. I assume this will be approved in any case. You said that this bill dealt with only one type of dormant contract. I still have to look at the amendments, but would you like to extend them further? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u89	Colleagues, the Economic Inspectorate was indeed able to identify misleading market practices among the suppliers concerned. It concerned a lack of transparency, in which dormant renewal products of the same name as active products had a different price. The Economic Inspectorate has confirmed that this could lead to significant confusion among consumers. This report was shared with you. Thanks to our initiative, which I took together with my colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker, these practices have now been adapted. The tariff cards will now be published online. Customers are no longer transferred to a more expensive contract. This was also confirmed by the Economic Inspectorate. As you rightly said, the other suppliers involved also took steps to remove their sleeping contracts from the market. By the end of this year, according to their action plans, more than two thirds of these contracts would have been phased out. In practice, therefore, there is an immediate positive change. Of course, that is not the end of it. Following the CREG report and the immediate action taken by Mrs De Bleeker, Mr Dermagne and myself, we were able to respond ad hocly to this practice. I am very pleased to find a partner in this House to see how this can be dealt with in a structural manner through proposals that are on the table in this committee and are being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u90	Madam Minister, sharing the information had partly made the question superfluous, but I would like to take the opportunity to say that we certainly welcome this intervention. That is good and it has been a clear signal to the market. As you say, we will continue to work on a structural solution to the problem, but it is good that we have already taken a firm stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. So far, you've always had a blow to the arm to treat it in a friendly way. I note that you support the legal prohibition. You will find a partner in this Parliament and in the PVDA to approve it. That practice at Mega dates back to the beginning of their activities in 2014, so it is good that you responded ad hocly. It is a pity that it has taken so long, but that is, of course, your responsibility. We shall be resolving this in the Chamber this afternoon in a structural manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u92	Madam Minister, my question is, of course, the result of the situation in Flanders, which we are not responsible for. Today, customers with digital meters and solar panels have to sign a return contract. I myself am in that situation and have received a warning from the distribution system operator that I would do the best I could. In the meantime, that has happened, but I fear that not every customer will immediately have the intention to do so. I am therefore asking whether you can encourage suppliers to inform their customers about this. Will you be actively involved in this, or are you saying that this is the responsibility of the Flemish Minister, who has partly caused the problem? Of course, there's not much the customers can do about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u93	Mr Verduyckt, the suppliers on the distribution network are, of course, subject, as you yourself say, to regional legislation and regulations. The power really lies at that level. People who actively choose a supplier and consciously invest in solar panels are, of course, a cornerstone of the inclusive energy transition. We must appreciate that, too. I am therefore making a warm call for this. The federal level can, of course, provide maximum support by ensuring that invoicing by suppliers is clear, understandable and transparent, so that prosumers can clearly determine whether and how much they are reimbursed for their returned electricity. The VREG's V-test has already been modified today and also allows to compare those contracts. One can even combine contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, which is, of course, also an important tool for transparency. I therefore see my mission as complementary, but I also take to heart what other colleagues have already said, namely that I may have to be more daring to coordinate and bring together. Where the policy is complementary, we really need to look for the common benefits. Here, complementarity lies mainly in the revision of the consumer agreement, which we have just discussed, and the complexity that will be brought into the market by the energy transition. Your other question was about services, but that can also be seen as an additional complexity related to the energy transition. We need to focus this on everything that has to do with the energy transition, especially when it comes to consumer protection. In this way we can get ahead of ourselves and we can steer the market to some extent by explaining exactly how we see this transparency and the informed choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u94	I understand the Minister's answer and will suggest to my Flemish colleagues that we also push the Flemish minister to encourage suppliers to give some more information. For example, I have not received any information from my supplier, but from the distribution system operator. This indicates that there are probably still customers who still do not receive any proper remuneration for the power they deliver back to the grid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u95	Minister, in order to ensure security of supply and affordability, an appointment clause was set by the end of 2021. The government agreement tells us that it is a permanent monitoring of production capacity, drawn up in close consultation with DG Energy, CREG and Elia, and a continuous price control, which will feed into this report. Indeed, the agreement makes it clear that "an affordable energy bill is essential for citizens and businesses". Monitoring is essential to determine if there is an unexpected security of supply problem. It is therefore a cornerstone of a possible adjustment of the legal timetable for a capacity of up to 2 GW (i.e. two reactors). Today we are six months away from the preparation and submission of this report and there is no monitoring. Can you give us any information on this follow-up? What steps have you taken on the subject? How does this monitoring work? As you know, transparency is essential in this case. Could we already have information on the key elements that appear in your work? Finally, what is your strategy and what is the timing to remedy delays that would impact the supply, if you may identify them in your monitoring work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u96	Madam Minister, it has been mentioned before that in November 2021 it will be decided whether or not the life of the two youngest nuclear power plants will be extended for the sake of security of supply and affordability of energy. That decision will be based on two points, namely, on the one hand, the results of the CRM auction, which we mentioned earlier, but, on the other hand, the monitoring report, which should map the production of energy in Belgium. Madam Minister, is there a monitoring mechanism already in place today? What is the state of play? When do you expect a final report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my cabinet, the General Energy Directorate, the CREG and Elia, which are therefore many stakeholders, are currently discussing in the CRM follow-up committee the preparation of the capacity and price monitoring report announced in the government agreement. The report will largely be a compilation of existing monitoring tools, in which we have already stood still in previous questions. The CREG already evaluates the functioning of the market and the transmission system operator continuously checks the balance between supply and demand. A chapter of that report will, of course, address the outlook of available capabilities based on the statements of unavailability under the transparency obligation in accordance with REMIT and the outcome of CRM auctions. We are still busy preparing for the auction. I can assure you that these are constantly monitored and that we are always on the right track and in time. Similarly, each post-auction stage will be evaluated to identify problems as soon as possible. However, we must ensure that this auction is conducted under the best possible conditions, as competitive as possible. We must therefore be careful with the information on the preliminary analyses and assumptions we make for each evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u98	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In October 2020, three weeks after you took office, you stated in the press that you would conduct a continuous monitoring of the situation. In my view, this report must be more than just a periodic report. Indeed, it must make energy policy truly transparent. This monitoring must be a dashboard made from applications capable, in real time, of bringing back in the hour the electric piloting powers of all Western Europe, the market prices and the carbon pollution rate of the energy mix at any time. This monitoring should also be able to answer questions about the impact of policy developments on the energy bill. I am thinking in particular of the investments linked to the offshore or the Loop du Hainaut. In short, the development of a scoreboard to exploit past and present data, whether in terms of price, supply, foreign capacity, renewable development, employment or climate impact, should be possible, with the aim of establishing serious foresights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u99	I understand, of course, that the discussion on this subject is conducted in accordance with the coalition agreement, but you are mainly using the future wisdom, so it is still too much of an intention today. I also hear between the lines that there is not so much available yet and that we are not so far away. We must also be aware that this report will not be there immediately. So there's a lot of work on the shelf. I can only hope that steps will be taken forward. I will also come back to the committee regularly to ask for an update on the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u100	Mr President, Madam Minister, the recovery plan recently sent to Europe focuses in particular on hydrogen and CO2 capture in order to limit CO2 emissions, particularly in the industrial sector. This recovery plan therefore provides for the development of transport networks for both hydrogen and CO2 as well as the development of a value chain around hydrogen. This would include, for example, the development of high-capacity electrolyzers, research on hydrogen engines, or the integration of green hydrogen into transport and industry. Minister, with regard to hydrogen, what are the new projects outlined in the recovery plan? In response to a previous question on the subject, you indicated to me that you were working with the Regions on a clear division of competences in relation to hydrogen. Could you please let me know if this distribution has been clarified between the Regions and the federal government? If so, is there a document that notifies it? You also stated that your administration was developing, with an external consultant, a study on the future of gas. The role of hydrogen was part of this study. Is this final? If so, what does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u101	Mr President, Mr Bombled, with regard to the recovery plan and hydrogen projects, my vision is identical to that already presented in this Committee on Energy in 2021. In particular, I want to support the development of hydrogen and CO2 backbones, the production of hydrogen coupled with offshore wind and the use of hydrogen as a tool to reduce CO2 emissions, particularly for electricity generation and network services. With regard to the production and use of hydrogen, a call for projects will be launched. This will be assessed by DG Energy as is the case for the Energy Transition Fund today. With regard to skills, as you know, this is a complex issue. The special law on institutional reforms did not specifically address hydrogen. I am finalizing an interpretative note from the federal side, which will also be presented to regional colleagues as a basis for discussion to lead to an agreement in the interest of industry and transport. The study to which you refer is now almost complete. Only a few adjustments still need to be made on the basis of comments obtained after consultation with the sector. The study will also be presented to the general public at an event to be held on May 18. This study makes a number of recommendations regarding the future role of hydrogen and molecules in the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answers. Hydrogen has become a strategic element of the energy transition. Therefore, the integration of green hydrogen into transport and industry requires investment both in the creation of a hydrogen backbone and in the development of a chemical process. It is appropriate that a clear division of jurisdiction between the federal and the Regions be established. It is indeed important to know who does what. While hydrogen is part of the federal recovery plan, the Regions are also investing in the development of this energy. A recent example is the Airport project, which should allow the development of an infrastructure for the production of hydrogen from electricity at the Liège airport site. With regard to the study on the future of gas, I thank you for announcing its forthcoming presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u103	Mrs Marghem is on her way, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u104	Mr President, Minister, last Friday the Council of Ministers approved your proposal to set the nuclear tax at EUR 72 million for the period 2021-2023. That is the lowest contribution ever made and a huge drop compared to the EUR 550 million that the nuclear tax was nine years ago. Two reasons are given for this sharp decrease. On the one hand, there are the many technical problems and the maintenance interruptions which have reduced the availability of nuclear power stations. We spoke earlier about the closure of Tihange 2. This shows once again that obsolete nuclear power plants are not reliable and are more a risk to our security of supply than a guarantee. As a result, the revenues of the plants are effectively decreasing. On the other hand, the previous government has stopped paying a nuclear tax for Objectives 1 and 2 and Tihange 1. You reacted somewhat euphemistically in the press with the announcement that this decision "has brought some of the nuclear gains back to society. I'm a little surprised. You are talking about part of the nuclear surplus, while the intention of the nuclear tax has always been to take full advantage of the excess profits. Does this statement imply that you think the nuclear tax is too low? If so, why is it so low? If not, do you think that is a correct and fair contribution from producers? Do you think this is fair in relation to the historical gains that ENGIE-Electrabel has made? Do you intend to intervene? Or will you leave everything like that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u105	Mr President, Minister, the situation has already been outlined. Never before was the nuclear charge so low. The levy was introduced in 2008 to ensure that the owners of nuclear power plants would contribute fairly to the huge profits made on the deprecated nuclear power plants. Those contributions are now very low. I therefore have two questions, Madam Secretary. How do you explain the fall in the rate of the levy compared to recent years? Do you think that nuclear energy producers are contributing enough in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u106	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, you asked me the same question on 18 December 2020. I also refer to my answer to that question. What's it about, anyway? It concerns the determination of the repartition contribution, the contributions paid by the nuclear power stations in the context of the excess profits they achieve. It concerns power stations which are not subject to the extension of their lifespan. That amount will be committed to KB. This was done on 6 December 2020. It is about a tax authority that can only have effect if the legislator subsequently confirms it. We've talked about this a lot. The KB is traditionally approved at the end of the year, so that the person who has to pay can pay. After that, the legislator must ratify so that the person who has to pay does not have to return it. I said in December that we would choose a holiday other than Christmas for that endorsement. I kept that promise. That is why ratification was submitted to the Council of Ministers last Friday. We will seek advice from the Council of State. Then we can discuss this further in Parliament. The amount is indeed a lot lower. As a reminder, the amount is calculated by the CREG for a period of three years. It is now EUR 72 million. On a three-yearly basis, in 2020, in 2023 and in 2026, the CREG is responsible for monitoring the fixed and variable costs further defined and elaborated in the Annex to the Nuclear Fees Act. The CREG shall also set the minimum amount for each three-year period. For the period from 2020, 2021 and 2022, that minimum amount shall be EUR 72 million, following the application of the degressivity mechanism, while for the previous three years it was legally committed at EUR 150 million. Why is the amount a lot lower? This actually follows from the method of calculation, the methodology, as agreed and laid down in the law, and from that a certain amount follows. In addition, there is also an impact of the many technical problems of obsolete nuclear power plants and their unavailability. As a result, revenue has fallen and, as a result, levies have also fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, this preliminary draft was passed at first reading at the Council of Ministers. As soon as the opinion of the Council of State has been delivered and any adjustments have been made, this will come to Parliament. I expect this before the summer. Then we can continue the discussion on the substance of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u107	Madam Minister, I have heard your answer and I know a part of it. My question was a little different. I don't know if it was answered. It's very simple. I saw in the press, in the Belga dispatches, both in French and in Dutch, a title which asked me: "Determination of the distribution contribution for the dismantling of nuclear power plants to the management of fissile material." I am very surprised because that is not the case. In this title there are two things which are certainly in the same law but which do not have the same object. That's what my first question was about. The second is the time - perhaps you have already responded, Madam Minister - when you are going to present the implementing orders for the MRC legislative framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u108	Marghem, the minister cannot answer twice. It doesn't make sense. I therefore propose that your question be postponed until the next sitting because you were late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u109	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. You were right to point out that it will be discussed again in this committee and, of course, in the plenary. For the rest, you have not really answered my questions on whether you are satisfied with some of the nuclear gains, or whether they should be full gains. Whether you think that is correct, fair and just, you have not replied to that either, as far as we are concerned. We shall therefore come back to this when the draft law is discussed here. Of course, we consider EUR 72 million to be shamefully little. ENGIE Electrabel has made huge profits in the past by accelerating the write-off of nuclear power plants. In 2008, for example, the CREG estimated this to be EUR 11 billion. The fact that ENGIE Electrabel is now making less profit does not alter the fact that it has done so in the past on the consumer's hood, and therefore still has a debt to it. Of course, you are not responsible for the decisions of the previous governments. We will come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u110	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u111	Madam Minister, a levy on the profits of power stations is only normal for our group. Mr Warmoes said that of course you are not responsible for the decisions taken by the previous government, which was very upset by the sudden exemption of Objectives 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 from any levy, although there was a broad support for many years to exploit nuclear interest rates. For example, from EUR 550 million nine years ago to EUR 72 million at the moment, we come up with a question mark. I have heard that we will discuss this in future, and we will certainly make our voice heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic447x.u112	We will try to organise a new meeting next week with Minister Van der Straeten to answer the rest of the questions.
