ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u1	Welcome, everyone. I'll give you a word of explanation first. There's been a misunderstanding. It was originally intended to hold a topical debate on the covid crisis, but we had failed to pass it on to the cabinet, which, together with the administration of course, had prepared the non-covid questions. I only saw it last week and then contacted the cabinet and the minister. They felt, like most of us here, that it was useful, given the current situation, to deal with questions about the covid crisis. As a result, we changed the agenda on Friday. The result is that for the cabinet, and especially for the administration, the time was too short to find out the answers to a number of more technical questions in detail. It is therefore possible that, for some rather technical questions, the Minister does not have all the elements of answer, but I am counting on your understanding. The holiday period has not been ideal, but I think it is important that we talk today about the covid crisis, especially since next week there will be a special meeting of the covid committee which will prevent us from meeting with Minister Vandenbroucke, and our next session with questions to him is scheduled on 4 May, the date on which the non-covid questions will be discussed. We didn't want to wait four weeks with the 55 questions about the covid pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u2	Mr President, I would like to refer to my questions. 55016316C, 55016338C, 55016509C, 55016472C and 55016471C. In addition, I have a few short extra questions. A first question is about the Easter break, which we have just behind us. I heard today that Easter break had only a limited effect. Has that been analyzed? How can it be explained that the effect is so small? After all, a high toll has been paid for. The schools were closed, which led to additional learning disadvantage. Due to the closure of the schools, the epidemic is also more under the radar. With the school re-opening, another large test machine is starting. Schools are among the most controlled environments, I heard. Do you think it was a wrong decision? Would you make that decision again if you looked back on that today? My second additional question concerns the figures of the RSZ on the incidence of the various occupational categories. During the previous topical debate, you promised that we would get those figures. Can you let me know exactly where I can find it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u3	Minister, I may not have to repeat to you that my stickhorse is the care staff. I would like to come back to the question that ended last time, namely the compensation premium for home-care equipment. You explained last time that this premium was not granted to them in March, as was proposed, by a miscommunication between you and the Secretary of State for the Budget. Has that problem been solved in the meantime? Are you taking lessons from the incident? How did that happen? When will that premium come into the account? Is there any provision for additional compensation for the delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u4	Mr President, I would like to refer to my questions. 55016502C, 55016452C, 55016451C, 55016450C, 55016449C, 55016448C, 55016447C, 55016446C, 55016445C and 55015934C. My first question follows on from Mr Van Camp's question. I, too, was asked how the expenses for the care providers were not yet paid out. It was intended to be paid before 31 March, but it has apparently not yet happened. My next question concerns your request for advice to a number of advisory bodies on the role of the official drugstore in vaccination against covid and against flu. You sent that question to a rather broad group of experts, but not among the pharmacists themselves. How come you have not contacted the pharmacists themselves about, for example, the possible impact of vaccination on daily practice in the offina? It seems clear to me that this question is also being asked to the pharmacists. It was announced that additional Pfizer vaccines would be provided. Is it an extra quantity or a faster delivery of already ordered vaccines? Of 2.5 million Pfizer vaccines, it was not yet confirmed whether they would come to our country. Are the 1.34 million recently announced vaccines among the 2.5 million vaccines to which we could still be entitled? In other words, are we a total of 12.5 million Pfizer vaccines, or 15 million Pfizer vaccines? In January, you indicated that an audit or at least an internal evaluation of the FAGG would take place to the forgotten signature about the 2.5 million Pfizer vaccines. Is that evaluation ready yet? What are the findings? What are the consequences of this? Is the administrator-general still the spokesperson of the advisory board today or has there been a shift among the staff? In relation to shifts, I have been told that someone who was working on mouth masks would now be carrying out self-tests. Can you explain that? As far as the self-tests are concerned, I find it very special that two firms were very quickly approved to sell their own tests. Today, a third company has also received the validation. A lot of firms are waiting. Moreover, the two first firms, which nevertheless sell rather expensive self-tests, knew on the first day that they could be allowed on the Belgian market. Did they have insider knowledge? Did they know better than the other suppliers what was in the file? After all, a fairly large file must be submitted to the FAGG. I hear from several suppliers that that is impossible in such a short time. We are now 20 days away and there are many suppliers who have already submitted their file before Easter recess, but still do not know whether they can sell on the Belgian market or not. That's a competitive handicap, isn't it? Then I have questions about Medista. I asked you about this in January. The contract expired on 31 March 2021. It would have been extended by 6 months, i.e. until 31 October. At the same time, I see that an open tender has been launched. Has the contract been renewed or is there an open invitation to tender and will Medista continue to supply? The communication's unclear. Finally, I have a question about the syringes. On 30 March 2021 we had a discussion about the syringes of S-Group and VPEX. I'm sure you remember that. You told me the syringes of S-Group weren't in conformity. I asked you for a report, but I didn't get it. What I find special, Minister, is that last week I received syringes from S-Group in the vaccination centre. It's the syringes you said didn't conform. What's in the hand here? The syringes were bought for 0.39 euros from a distributor and were offered to the federal government for 0.33 euros. You claimed that a report would show that they were not in conformity. I pulled up vaccines with those syringes, and I didn't get any bubbles. That material comes directly from Evergem's vaccination center. I would have liked a word of explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u5	Mr President, my question 55016460C does not belong in the topical debate, since it deals with the mental well-being of children and young people, which of course was also affected by the corona crisis. The theme is, of course, much wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u6	Your question will be discussed, with the agreement of the Minister, at the meeting on 4 May, which is devoted to non-covid questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u7	Mr Minister, first of all, I apologize because I was wrong in relying on the old agenda. Therefore, I did not raise a question. Nevertheless, I wanted to convey my concerns to you during this topical debate. During the last Codeco, Alexander De Croo referred only to risk management, but remained vague in his explanations, as he did not indicate how this strategy would be taken into account in the management of the pandemic. It is now more than time for this approach to influence debate and decision-making, because it is not decreed, but rather has to be developed with the sectors. Similarly, it is not limited to a simple label of the covid safe type or to the installation of a ventilation system. It is a question of providing a systemic response to a crisis that is equally so. Perhaps it is also a way of regaining the support of the population and, above all, of maintaining it in the medium and long term. On the other hand, risk management also does not involve relaxation. On the contrary, the aim is to raise awareness of one's own risk. Such a method is, moreover, much more responsible than a list of authorized or unauthorized activities, which gives the impression that each sector is discriminated against according to the Codeco meeting. But the goal is to be able to continue living, while continuing to limit contamination and thus the number of people in intensive care - but not only. It is also important to take into account psychiatric emergencies, which are saturated. This aspect seems less crucial, but it would be healthy for us to talk about it in committee. This change in strategy is necessary, because we swim in full uncertainty and do not control the arrival and impact of new variants, nor the delivery of vaccines. We can no longer afford to announce a deconfination, if and only if the situation permits, when we do not have predictive models in the medium and long term - as Sciensano once again reminded us an hour ago - since they are only 14 days away. It is therefore difficult to develop strategies without such models. Of course, we must be humble in the face of the virus, but we must also show determination in order to move forward. Minister, how do you intend to achieve this risk management? What projects are under way to this end? Are you considering relying on protocols developed and applied abroad? Then, do you have an evaluation of the "Bolsonaro" variant? Is there a coordinated approach across the European Union to limit its spread? Finally, in terms of mental health risks, where are we in strengthening mental health networks? This aspect is becoming more and more worrying for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u8	Mr President, Minister, for the report I refer to my questions Nos 55016425C, 55016426C, 55016427C and 55016555C. My first question was about the vaccination of the prison staff and has now been answered in the topical and urgent debate. Yesterday the message appeared that prison staff will be vaccinated as a matter of priority, just like the 65-plussers and the at-risk patients in prisons. A question that my colleague Van Hecke also asked the Minister of Justice a few weeks ago is whether the prison staff will be vaccinated together with the prisoners in prison. That seems logical, but it turned out that there was a great deal of uncertainty about this recently in the special committee. I couldn't submit that question yesterday, because that news came later, but I wonder if you can see that. As far as vaccinations are concerned, we hear from Pfizer, for example, that a third dose may be needed. Has the roll-out been discussed in practice? Will it be discussed at the European level, so that we will certainly be in the front row if that happens? My second question concerns the ICT problems that existed during the Easter holiday with regard to the launch of QVAX.be, but also with myhealthviewer.be, where people could check whether they are on the list of risk groups or not. Both times it was in the news that it was a very long wait and that it didn't go so smoothly. You will probably say that this is a good sign, because this means that vaccination is very willing, but I am still angry that we seem to be unable to make such a system work properly. If someone has to wait eight hours to get the report that his or her vaccination centre is not participating in the QVAX reserve list, then I wonder if it would not be more logical for this to be reported at the beginning. If I enter my zip code, can't I know right away that my vaccination centre isn't in, so I don't have to wait eight hours? Moreover, when I hear in the evening in the news that a hacker could easily bypass the system, I wonder whether this could not be better in 2021, since we have been working with these ICT systems for some time. As far as the vaccination rate is concerned, we hear that it is very low in Brussels. This has the advantage that the 50-plussers are already being vaccinated there. As far as the national strategy is concerned, I wonder how it will be coordinated between the Länder, so that we can all reach that 70%. How can we contribute to this from the federal level? I also had a detailed question about the financial intervention for the protective equipment for the care staff, but Mr Van Camp has already made extensive reference to this. So I'm not gonna spend any more time on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u9	Minister, to date, a quarter of Belgians have received at least one dose of the vaccine. This can be further accelerated as Pfizer will deliver 400,000 doses of its vaccine next week and, as of May 31, more than 730,000 doses will be delivered every week. Between April 19 and the week of June 28, more than 5 million doses will be delivered by Pfizer. But at the same time, while doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine have already been delivered to us, they will not be administered in Belgium until they have obtained the long-awaited positive decision of the European Medicines Agency. So, do you confirm the numbers announced by Pfizer regarding the number of doses that will be delivered in the coming weeks? Do you have any new information about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and its potential side effects? What about the AstraZeneca vaccine, now banned in Denmark due to the risk of thrombosis? How do you intend to strengthen adherence to vaccination, especially in view of the debates on the latter two vaccines? On the other hand, I also have a question about self-testing, which has been on the open market since April 6. In fact, he did not cause the rush in pharmacies, contrary to what we might have thought. Several reasons may explain this. First of all, the price of the self-test, between 7 and 8 euros. Secondly, the warning of several experts on the lack of guarantees regarding the reliability of these tests. These can produce false negatives and thus lead to a relaxation of health measures in people who have tested themselves. Minister, are there any figures on the number of self-tests available in pharmacies and the number of tests purchased since April 6th? Some experts recommend that individuals do this test directly in pharmacy, in order to be sure that this test is being performed properly. What is your opinion on the matter? Finally, is a broader communication on this subject envisaged? I give the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u10	Minister, a few days ago, a few experts, Nathan Clumeck, Marius Gilbert and Leïla Belkhir, published a white card in which they pleaded for a controlled reopening of all sectors by favouring a covid safe label strategy. Mr Minister, I am one of the pragmatic optimists: I think that all measures that can be positive must be considered. What do you think of this creative approach advocated by the three experts? If different experiments prove to be successful, particularly in the 18 locations equipped with state-of-the-art technologies under a pilot project in Brussels centre, would it be possible to provide for the reopening of places which would present a kind of anti-virus safety label? Do you think realistic the reopening of interior spaces, with a safety analysis of places for example, as some experts imagine? What do you think about the reopening of restaurants that would invest in adequate equipment to secure the customer's environment? Mr Minister, you know as well as I do that citizens' membership is lost over the days, and yet it is necessary. We need it more than ever, while the situation remains so worrying in intensive care units - something that some forget. The situation in intensive care units remains a concern. With the members of my group, I am one of those who are aware of the exhaustion of our population, of a real need for answers and solutions. I saw, a few moments ago, a colleague brandishing a syringe. But the worst syringes are the unthought out words of some who anaesthetize collective consciousness and lead to total loss of adhesion. I am not one of the riders alone, the "yaqua" or the frantic twitters who unfortunately will still put pressure on Friday's Codeco, with populist comments. Nor am I among those who say that the Horeca must be reopened on 8 May, that it is a commitment; and I do not do it on radio. With my party, I am one of those who will not sell dreams, utopia to win a voice, but who, on the other hand, demand that we consider all the measures that can support realistic perspectives; Cartesian measures, realistic and thoughtful because we need real social, economic, cultural, sporting hope. We believe that we need to change our approach to avoid a recurrence of the epidemic. Changing approaches does not mean closing everything down. This means that perhaps we can offer well thought out and calculated perspectives. We must offer tenable prospects, showing pragmatism. With this in mind, I must say that I am convinced, for my part, of the covid safe label proposed by the experts, which would certainly allow real prospects. What do you think? Thank you very much for your answers. I know they'll be without a wood tongue. That is what we expect of you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u11	Mr President, I will respond to your call to be brief and refer to the written record of my question No. 55016172C. Minister, I have to apologize, because I have another appointment, but I will not fail to listen to your answer online.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my questions. 55016171C, 55016190C, 55016191C, 55016192C, 55016193C, 55016318C and would like to add a few oral comments and questions. With regard to the Dutch field experiments, if we know the results, is it still necessary to do such experiments again? I've submitted a question about the mobile vaccination teams. I think it is the second time I have asked that question. Unfortunately, I have not yet received an answer. I've submitted a question about the very low probability of transmission outside. What consequences will you have for that? Then I come to a question about the vaccination of 16- and 17-year-olds with underlying diseases. I think I have already asked that question, but I have not yet received an answer. At the committee meeting on 30 March, you said that vaccination of young people with underlying diseases will start in April. It's April 20th now. How far is the vaccination of young people with underlying diseases? What vaccine are they given? Are the 16- and 17-year-olds with underlying diseases vaccinated with the EMA authorised Pfizer vaccine? If not, why not? Are the 16-year-olds with underlying conditions in one movement vaccinated with the 18-plussers in this group? If not, why not? When will the 16- and 17-year-olds be vaccinated with underlying diseases? Then I come to the question about foreign corona patients who end up in Belgian hospitals. On March 11th came the first message of a French corona patient who was admitted to Veurne. How many patients are we talking about in the meantime? Are they also included in our statistics and figures on hospitalisations? Are patients also supplied with intensive care from abroad? How does that affect our hospital capacity? Then I have an additional question, which I have not yet submitted and which is now in my mailbox. It concerns the research of the Radboudumc in the Netherlands on 10 April, with new insights related to the treatment of COVID-19 and the medicine Icatibant. This would control the bradykinin. Bradykinin is the cause of lung flooding, causing shortness of breath. Are you aware of that research and of what our experts think? Will the medicine be used with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my questions Nos. 55016511C, 55016512C, 55016513C and 55016514C. My first question concerns the Brazilian variant. To what extent does the government make strong decisions to protect itself against this variant? Even if we know that it is already present in our territory, what measures are envisaged in relation to the control of persons from the countries concerned? There is no direct airline between Brazil and Belgium, but you know like me that many Belgians transit through countries like Germany or the Netherlands. It therefore seems to me important to tighten the control of people from these countries with very strong quarantine effectiveness. In addition, is viral genome sequencing more widely used than this variant today? My second question concerns the covid safe spaces that we talked about a lot. What is the status of the protocols for setting up covid safe spaces today? Do you undertake a number of initiatives in relation to this possibility of sterilising or, in any case, further controlling the ambient air in enclosed spaces? In Britain, for example, the National Health Service makes extensive use of sterile air-type systems such as ozone. In Belgium, there is relatively little talk of this today. Would aid and subsidies for this type of equipment not be desirable in order to gradually improve our spaces? My third question is a bit of an annex. When I saw the television footage, I was stopped by the way the injection of the vaccines is carried out. I rarely see that an aspiration is removed after placing the needle to test whether or not you are in a deltoid muscle vein in this case. I find this a little curious because I was taught that before you inject, you always had to withdraw to make sure you're not in a venule. I found that the vaccination protocols do not specify that. However, it seems to me that it would be desirable to mention this in the vaccination methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u14	Mr Bacquelaine, the time allocated is for your group as a whole. Your colleagues don't have much time left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u15	So I come to my last question. What's your status in vaccination in general medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u16	Mr. Chair, I have tabled several questions, but I will focus on testing and intensive care services. Obtaining accurate and transparent information on the reception capacities in our hospitals and specifically regarding intensive care beds is essential. Minister, on November 3, 2020, you announced 2,300 beds and wanted 2,800 beds, of which 2,000 were for covid patients. However, in fact, there were 1,600 beds. Very recently, Sciensano reported that 96% of the country's intensive care beds were occupied. Ten days ago, Sciensano indicated that we were flirting with the saturation of the 2,000 covid and non-covid beds in intensive care. I would therefore like clarifications especially since an evaluation was carried out by the KCE and published in mid-December. Minister, the information provided seems contradictory. It seems to me that it is up to Parliament to follow up on this situation. How many ICU and resuscitation beds did we have on November 15, 2020? How many do we have today? How many intensive care and resuscitation beds have been created in these services since May 2020? For the transparency and understanding of all, can you quickly submit a detailed report to Parliament on the situation of the last 12 months (beds, staff, staff reinforcements, training given, operational systems of this management as indicated by the KCE)? On the test, you received my questions. You know the importance of this strategy, which has an impact on the spread and health of people affected to avoid the hospital. This remains a challenge because we are still testing far too little in our country. What about pharmacy self-tests and pharmacist tests? What measures are being taken to encourage and promote these tests in the workplace, especially when it is said that only 300,000 tests have been requested? What is the planning for the next few weeks for the delivery of these tests in companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u17	Mr President, the minister had answered the question of antigenic tests, but I wanted to go back more specifically to the experiments that were carried out in Barcelona for the cultural and event sectors. Participants were tested before and after the event. The results were very positive in that there was virtually no contamination. The president of the Task Force Testing – Professor Herman Goossens – told us in Special Committee Covid-19 that he had worked on setting up quick tests for events. The cultural and event sectors are really waiting for protocols and measures to reopen and reorganize activities. Minister, do you have a timetable for the implementation of this system of protocols and rapid tests for the organisation of events? Rather than experimenting with this in Belgium, do you have contacts with your counterparts in other countries that would already be more advanced on the subject? The idea is of course not to reinvent the wheel, whereas it has already turned elsewhere and proved its worth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u18	Mr President, I would like to refer to my question. 55016539C on workplace infections and the strategy of rapid tests and source research, Question No 55016387C on the concerns about the self-tests expressed by Test Purchase, question No. 55016540C on the price increases of the Pfizer vaccine and the marketing of patents and Question No 55016541C on the income guarantee in case of quarantine. I was not present at the previous committee meeting, but you apparently had a comprehensive answer to my question about the infections in the workplace. I'm here today to hear your answers. Especially now that schools have been closed, it is clear that 50% of clusters are found on the workplace. What progress has been made with the distribution of rapid tests among companies? How many quick tests have been distributed? Have they really been used in the companies where it is needed? Has it been possible to manage clusters better? What's the deal with that, anyway? What about the lack of staff in occupational health services? How do you deal with the clusters in the companies? What is the preventive testing strategy in the companies? I would also like to return to some interesting scientific studies by the British Committee of Experts Independent SAGE and the British Medical Journal. They show that the loss of wages caused by quarantine has a significant negative impact on respect for the quarantine. I can testify to that, too. There are many infections and so many people need to be quarantined. If these people cannot work telework, they receive only 70% of their income. I have heard a story from a nurse about this: if one is tested negative and is not infected by one's family member, one should actually stay in quarantine for almost three weeks, because it is only seven days after the infected person no longer tested positive that one should be quarantined. This person has suffered a loss of income of 1,000 euros. That's a big problem for people. Is the government working on a solution to this? The last question concerns the recent decision of the Pfizertopman at a meeting for shareholders that the prices for vaccines could rise to $150 per vaccine in the near future, thus promising more profit for shareholders. Meanwhile, more and more personalities stand up for the waiver of patents. In recent weeks, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Yves Leterme, as well as many Nobel Prize winners and former statesmen such as François Hollande, have called for this. They are all in favour of the lifting. What is your opinion on this, given the growing consensus on it? Do you still believe that such a lifting is not a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u19	I shall be brief, Minister, because a number of groups have gone over the speaking time allocated. I'll try to win back that time. I have tabled two questions. The first has the number 55016390C and concerns the large differences in vaccination readiness between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. The Chairman of the Task Force on Vaccination, Professor Ramaekers, is concerned that the objectives will not be met in Brussels; they would be achieved in Wallonia. Mr Minister, how do you look at that yourself? Would you like to support certain actions in Brussels? My second question has the number 55016505C and concerns the temporary cessation of vaccinations with the AstraZeneca vaccine in people under 55 years of age. It is sometimes suggested that the second dose should be given with another vaccine. In the meantime, Germany is doing so in the case of residents under 60. I would have liked to have heard from you, Minister, how you look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u20	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I would like to address with you the issue of the vaccination strategy. We know that the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will today give its opinion on the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. However, TheNew England Journal of Medicine has already published an article on a case of atypical thrombosis associated with the same self-immunity marker observed for AstraZeneca vaccine. This is clearly the same physiopathological mechanism for very specific thromboembolic events. Therefore, the question arises as to how the vaccination strategy should evolve. How to optimize the use of Pfizer and Moderna vaccine doses by injecting a single dose to those who have had covid and are cured? New articles have been published in the Journal of the American Medical Association and in The New England Journal of Medicine. In addition, the question arises as to the time between the two doses. On these two aspects, the health authorities of other countries have made progress, particularly on the basis of the opinions of very important scientific authorities, including that of the French High Health Authority. I would therefore like to know exactly what is happening. With regard to the vaccine strategy, I would like to return to the issue of the priority vaccination of teachers, in any case teachers in kindergarten and in the first years of primary school, but also those who welcome children aged 0 to 3 who work in a nursery or at home for whom the risk, even if it is hidden, is very high, given the difficulty of respecting the barrier gestures since they continue, and fortunately, to take the children entrusted to them in their arms. Promises have been made by several ministers in this regard. What about it? Let me also come back to you about the few hundred immunocompromised children in Belgium, whether they are primitive immune deficiencies or secondary immune deficiencies following cancer, chemotherapy, etc. As you know – I have been arguing for several weeks – the vaccination of their parents is a priority in order to prevent these children from becoming infected or, in any case, to minimize the risk of spreading the virus. What about this? When are we going to allow these parents to be vaccinated? This brings me to other strategies, including testing to better control contamination. I would like us to return, first of all, to the testing in schools, which has been abandoned. Why not test teachers and students regularly once or even twice a week to really lock the risk of contamination? What is the situation at the enterprise level as well? On the other hand, what control measures are being taken for the much more at-risk variants? Brazil, other countries in South America – where the P1 variant is present – were mentioned, as well as the multiple changes objectified in relation to the covid-19, particularly in India. I note that with respect to travel returns, only 25% of those who complete the Passenger Locator Form (PLF) do not take the first test and 76% of those do not take the second test. There is, therefore, clearly a laissez-faire during travel returns, and this is a terribly worrying finding given the presence of much more dangerous and contagious variants. When are we finally going to Belgium to take stock of the problem and lock the entries at risk? I would also like to ask you about the European vaccination passport, which several countries anticipate. In this regard, I refer to my question No 55016524C on the covid-19 premium for employed and self-employed home nurses, and to my question No 55016523C on the non-ordering to date of monoclonal antibodies against covid-19, which have shown very strong efficacy and which we will need for the treatment of fragile patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u21	Mr. Chairman, I refer to my questions as filed (Nos. 55016557C, 55016559C, 55016560C, 55016561C, 55016565C and 55016566C. Minister, first of all, I wanted to question you about the situation of children and adolescents. The last Colloquium confirmed the return of young people on Monday, knowing that for the others it will still be necessary to wait for a return to 100 per cent in the face-to-face school. Unfortunately, as a carte blanche published by pediatricians on Monday rightly pointed out, this presential return is urgent in view of the sometimes dramatic consequences of distance learning, school drop-out, suicidal thoughts, anorexia, depression or anxiety. At the same time, child-child psychiatry services – which are already structurally underfunded – are running under demands, which they are no longer even able to provide. My question, Minister, is therefore twofold: what steps are being taken upstream to avoid a worsening of the mental health of these young people? When will Codeco consult with the youth sector? Should we not have a Codeco specifically dedicated to youth, such as the one announced in January but never happened? Should not the vaccination of teachers also be advanced? This is a request that my party has been repeating regularly since December. This would guarantee the ten weeks of courses that remain, in complete safety and serenity. What do you think of the idea put forward by Trace Your Circle Association to measure the immunity of young people? Downstream, what measures are being taken to relieve psychiatry services? What about the mental health budget you announced? Like my colleagues, I also wanted to go back to the variants. Will Europe prohibit travel to and from countries where these Brazilian, South African and Indian variants are particularly present? It is known that there is no direct air link between Belgium and Brazil, but is this a guarantee to protect against the spread of these variants, especially since the lifting of the ban on non-essential travel? Apart from this, at European level, travellers can travel and could, for example, travel to Brazil from another European country. Some countries have taken the lead either by suspending their flights or by tightening conditions upon their return. What about our country? Are you really calling on the European Commission to adopt a strong response at European Union level? With regard to the recovery of the sectors at a standstill, some of them remain completely forgotten or feel the recovery announced as a poisoned gift. The Horeca expects much of what will be announced this Friday at the end of the Consultation Committee. Can you tell us what is on the table for this Committee? Will protocols be developed in consultation with the sectors concerned? That'd be the least I can do. Has a task force been assigned to list the devices that would be certified for air and surface decontamination? Will the idea of this famous "covid safe" label finally be discussed? What about the pilot experiments launched abroad, for example for concerts? I asked you the question before and I have not yet received an answer. Finally, some voices are raised to challenge the reliability of PCR tests since the trace of segments of the virus that is detected should be increased. Have you read this information? Will this have an impact on our testing strategy? Can you already issue a report on self-tests, since they were sold in pharmacies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u22	Minister, you have probably already heard that we unanimously adopted the resolution on long covid here this morning. It is, of course, still to be discussed in plenary, but I would like to draw your attention to it. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the whole committee, to pay due attention to it and to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u23	Mr President, there were a lot of questions about all kinds of data. I will therefore have to give a rather long and sometimes technical answer. I will first answer the questions about the situation in hospitals and the number of patients from abroad, and then the questions about the measures taken. Firstly, as far as hospitals are concerned, we have always confirmed in our contacts with foreign colleagues that we were prepared to show European solidarity. It is on the basis of this willingness for European solidarity that we ourselves managed to have 32 Belgians hospitalized in Germany at the time of the second wave in Belgium. Conversely, the hospitals in the province of Liège, which were hit very hard in the second wave, in January on the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity committee asked if Belgium could make beds available itself if the occupancy rate of our beds allowed. We thought that was a very good signal from these Liège hospitals, and we then offered available capacity through the European EWRS system. So far it has only been used by France, at the beginning of March. We were able to help France by receiving 17 French covid patients in Belgian hospitals: 5 patients in West Flanders, 3 patients each in Hainaut, Liège and Flemish Brabant, 2 in East Flanders and 1 in Namur. Of course, we have always included the number of patients who live with us on intensive care but have French nationality in our hospital records. On 18 April there were 5 patients of this group in covid-ICU departments. 12 have left the hospital. 9 of those 12 have been repatriated to France. Unfortunately, three patients died. There were also questions about the reporting of hospital admissions. At the moment, we have about 66,000 hospitalisations on a population of 11 million people. It is difficult to compare countries because the way in which reports are reported differs. After all, one can refer to PCR positive, CT scan positive or to a suspicion of infection. The bed occupation on intensive care has been maintained since the beginning of the epidemic, but we have only recently started collecting the recordings on intensive care in a separate statistics. You will find all this in our epidemiological reports on the hospitals. Steps are being taken to share and compare data internationally within the project unCoVer. That's still in a preliminary phase. We are studying the epidemic here and elsewhere, of course. We try to make international comparisons, but differences in surveillance systems do not always make that easy. Depending on the possibilities, different parameters can be compared within the project unCoVer. A question was also asked about the length of stay in Limburg. This seems short because fewer Limburg hospitals have reported, which gives a distortion when comparing the provinces. Moreover, there is no obligation to report. The above also applies to comparisons between hospitals. There will undoubtedly be differences between hospitals but they also depend on how and how many patients they register. Some hospitals have recorded the time spent in the covid unit instead of the time spent in the hospital, which, of course, results in a shorter stay. Rough international data such as duration of stay and patient profiles are not publicly available. Hospitals do receive a document with their figures, such as the duration of stay, in comparison with the national average. There is currently no interim report on the link between ethnicity and COVID-19. Those data will be used as a risk factor for worse clinical outcomes. A study is planned on the impact of ethnicity as a risk factor for worse outcomes, taking socio-economic and socio-odemographic differences into account. I have been asked to pay attention to ensuring sufficient care capacity for the reception of all non-adjustable pathologies. That is exactly what moves this government in its actions. All the measures we are taking to control the epidemic and to reduce the number of infections are to a very large extent motivated by the concern to continue to cope with pathologies that cannot be delayed. As far as non-covid pathology is concerned, attention is paid both to urgent care and to the question of care that is difficult to delay without possible disadvantages. Along with the professional associations of doctors, supporting tables by medical discipline were developed in 2020, but with the clear message that the clinic eventually makes the decision. After all, only he knows the patient's complete file. Article 14 (1) of the Law of 4 November 2020 on various social measures under the COVID-19 pandemic also provides for a mission to the Chief Medical Officer for the urgent care of non-covid patients when planning capacity in the hospital for covid patients. The principle of subsidiarity also applies to the organizational aspects. The government facilitates, develops general guidelines and registers for follow-up and feedback, but micromanagement takes place for example for hospitals by the management, the chief physician and the medical and nurse service heads. They also know best the type of demand, flexibility and type of supply of each hospital and the complementarity within and outside hospitals' networks for possible referrals. More generally, I would like to add the following to these questions. The public sometimes underestimates under which high voltage our hospitals have to work today. Unfortunately, the fire in Anderlecht showed that again. We entered Sunday night with one bed for intensive care that was still free throughout the Brussels Region. At night, that fire broke out. A certain happiness in a dramatic accident was that only three serious injuries had to be removed. Two of them could be taken care of in the Military Hospital and one seriously injured person found that one free bed on intensive care in Brussels. This was possible because the day before, patients were transported from Brussels to intensive care departments in Bruges and Bonheiden. That is the reality, and I think the public may be underestimating this. If 900 people are staying in beds for intensive care in our Belgian hospitals, this means that, as it were, 40% of the capacity for critical hospital admissions has been closed. People don't quite know what that means. This means, among other things, that if someone signs up today and the need is identified for surgery for cancer or any other problem requiring surgical intervention and perhaps a stay on intensive care, one must say that one cannot set a date. That's what this means. That brings enormous suffering, enormous worries, everywhere in Belgium. That is very much underestimated. I can't put enough emphasis on it. The fact that hospitals are still able to save it thanks to their emergency planning may mean that in the meantime the public has learned to live with it, but this requires a tremendous effort from hospitals. It's a very risky situation. We have to think about what it means to have a bed on intensive care available in half the hospitals. We have to ask ourselves how long we want to keep doing this to health care and how long we want to live with that risk. The question of capacity planning has been raised by Mrs Rohonyi and also by Mrs Taquin. As is well known, and I think Ms. Taquin recalled, we have about 2,000 approved ICU beds. This number has not changed in the past year. As part of the hospital capacity-building covid-19 plan, depending on the epidemiological situation and the phase of the plan, hospitals are invited to reserve a percentage of the beds accredited for covid care ranging from 15% (in the wake-up phase) to 60% (in the phase 2). Starting in Phase 2, hospitals are also invited to open an additional capacity of intensive care beds. In Phase 2A (current phase), 300 additional beds; in Phase 2B, another 500 additional beds. This corresponds to the figure of 2,800 in Mrs Taquin's question. Hospitals are currently in phase 2A and are expected to open 300 additional beds. The current situation in hospitals tells us that infrastructure or logistics are not so much an obstacle. It is a labour shortage that makes it impossible for hospitals today to complete Phase 2A. The repeated waves and the long stage of the plateau, with the full impact of exhaustion and also the absenteeism of the staff - which is, I believe, inevitable in this situation - make this increase in capacity in intensive care units extremely difficult. We have beds. We don't have our hands to provide care. The threshold for high quality intensive care, on these beds, is the staff framework. In the event of an escalation of the intensive care unit's occupation, efforts must be made to mobilize quickly and assign non-ICU personnel to the intensive care unit. In order to assign staff with a competency profile similar to the ICU competency profile, we need to exempt these staff from their regular assignments. For example, these skills are found in the operating room or waking room staff. That's what's happening today. Adding non-intensive care staff to the ICU team is a burden for both. Non-intensive care personnel are uncomfortable in the difficult environment for them and sometimes hesitate or refuse to be assigned to them. This is also not obvious to the O.R. and alarm room staff. For example, they have little or no knowledge of resuscitation drugs, respiratory equipment, etc. Intensive care staff are under additional stress and pressure due to the support of non-intensive care staff, which also raises many questions. Knowing colleagues, their abilities and skills is the strength of the ICU team and, if you make any changes to this, you will reduce the capacity of the ICU team, even if it is to a limited extent. What is needed is therefore to reduce the number of hospitalizations. It's the only way. FPS Public Health statistics available to the sector show significant variability in intensive care occupancy from region to region, for example, from 83% to 126% occupancy. Under certain conditions, staff mobility is possible, but a nurse who arrives in another intensive care unit will first have to adapt to local procedures, which will require some time and minimal support. The same difficulties arise when you want to transfer collaborators from other services. Prior training is required. This is why hospitals prefer to redirect patients to other hospital centres within the same or another network. This approach worked well in previous waves and stimulated inter-hospital cooperation and consultation. The hospital sector confirms that great solidarity is maintained. He sometimes disappoints people who have a profile that does not seem adapted to concrete needs. Local officials will determine which people will request as little support as possible for local needs that may vary over time. The international mobility of caregivers can of course create problems in the country of origin. This is why European mobility, which is already very open and flexible in normal times, has not been strengthened. With regard to applications for the mobility of caregivers from third countries, the existing procedures for assessing the equivalence of the diploma and issuing visas must be followed. Belgian procedures are not cumbersome and represent the minimum to ensure that the applicant is well qualified and qualified in his country of origin. The authorities of the Communities and of the Federal Republic of Germany, of course, ensure that the time limit for the examination of such applications is limited. Strictly administrative or logistical tasks are not normally part of the work of intensive care nurses. Their administrative work mainly concerns the follow-up of the patient, for which professional health care expertise is required. The Public Health FPS has postponed the registration of hospital data used for hospital service management, or for public health policy, several times in 2020. This measure aims to give priority to the direct care of these nurses, and registration is resumed as soon as the workload decreases, because measures of nursing activity show that it is obviously still very important. With respect to the 14-day Sciensano forecasts, they contain several scripts. Variables can strongly influence these forecasts, but an optimistic scenario cannot be ruled out. I would like to reiterate that the Consultative Committee decided to lift the package of measures taken before the Easter break on 26 April. We assume that on May 8, we can activate an outdoor plan. This presupposes that 70% of those over 65 have been vaccinated and that the situation in hospitals in the IC departments has improved sustainably. That outdoor plan is about organized activities with up to 25 people, opening the terraces under certain conditions that are still under discussion, events and cultural performances outside, worship services with up to 50 people, opening the amusement parks with respect for certain protocols, opening professional flea and brocante markets and replacing the curfew with a collective ban, whereby from midnight to five o'clock in the morning a maximum of three people may be met. As you know, further broadening of these measures depends on the situation in the IC departments. I would like to answer a few specific questions. There was a demand for the number of self-tests sold. For the weekend, about 200,000 self-tests were sold through the pharmacies. In addition, the federal government makes quick tests with deep nose wipers available to business and also public companies. Orders have now been placed for 330,000 such rapid tests. That is a bit disappointing, I think, because we have an offer that is much higher but that action is still running until 1 May. I really hope that private sector employers will respond to this offer and test the staff who cannot work telework repetitively with these rapid antigen tests. Questions have been asked about education. I would like to confirm that keeping education open was an absolute priority for this government from the first day that it took office. I think that we are different from other countries in which we have been given less importance. We have systematically tried to keep schools open because we thought that was important. We have not always succeeded in this: it was absolutely necessary to add a week's break for schools before the Easter holiday, where there would be no contact education. I think this was absolutely necessary, but of course we are glad that we were able to reopen education yesterday. We believe that this is necessary. I will not anticipate what will happen in education. The situation shall be evaluated. Questions have been asked about wearing the mask. That actually depends on the scientific advice we receive. Before the Easter holiday it was said that in the fifth and sixth years too, we should actually ask for a mouth mask, but we also closed contact education in primary education before the Easter holidays, so that was no longer applicable. I shall now turn to Mrs Fonck's question on how the re-opening of schools goes together with testing strategies in education. I heard what you said, Mrs. Fonck. The federal government has made a wide range of offers to education. They can use quick tests and they can work with saliva samples and with self-tests. Education ministers must make their own choices. I'm sure you've heard what those choices are. Those differences between the lands. I will not comment on that. I trust that the Ministers of Education will do their utmost to respond to the available testing opportunities. You will understand that I do not organise education and therefore the application of the testing strategy in education myself. We are making an offer to the education ministers and we hope that they will respond to it as much as possible. Questions have been asked about the idea of covid-safe places. First of all, I would like to stress that we are currently looking at all the protocols for all sectors, such as catering, the cultural sector and the services of honour. We are looking into how these protocols are applicable today. To a large extent, of course, this is done within the competence of the ministers responsible for these sectors and in consultation with the Coronac Commissioner. We are also having discussions with the Coronac Commissioner and, for example, the event sector about a roadmap to enable events back to take place, and I am not going to comment on that. All these discussions are ongoing. These are, of course, sectoral approaches. The idea in Professor Clumeck's and his colleagues' opinion paper is that instead of a sectoral approach an individual approach with a label can be applied. At the Consultation Committee it was agreed that the Task Force for Ventilation would look at this with regard to the problem of ventilation. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposed approach amounts to a licensing system, which is not so obvious. I also think that Mr Clumeck and his colleagues have made it clear that it cannot be introduced overnight. If I understand correctly, I must be contradicted, if necessary, by a system of individual licences based on regulations for individual cafes, restaurants, institutions, companies etc. That cannot be installed overnight, even if I hear a lot of enthusiasm for it. I would, however, like the colleagues and representatives in the various governments concerned to be equally enthusiastic about an individually regulated licensing system, because that is what this is about. It's not that simple. I have long been convinced that ventilation is a very important subject. It's not a boltade. Over the past few weeks, I have said several times to my colleagues in the nuclear cabinet that we should first talk about ventilation and only then begin our traditional debate on entanglement and relaxation. I am convinced that ventilation is a structural answer in the long term. I have therefore insisted very strongly on this. It is not for nothing that the Task Force for Ventilation of the Consultative Committee was instructed to update the opinions on ventilation by the end of April. The task force has already issued a number of opinions for the competent regional ministers, but I have instructed the task force to propose further updated opinions, including whether it is possible to achieve covid-safe places. I hope, however, that people realise that this will lead us to move towards an individual licensing system. That is in fact the logic, and I am not sure that everyone is already aware of that logic. So it's not that simple. I'll come back to the vaccinations later. Mr Bacquelaine, we monitor and follow the variants including the Brazilian variant. The National Reference Centre which organizes the sequencing sends a weekly report to the authorities, which is available online. In the last report of the National Reference Centre, when one observes the last fortnight and the sequencings that have been carried out, one finds that the Brazilian variant was present at 4.2%. It's not thin. It's not huge either, but it's present. It also shows that it is necessary to follow this and to be extremely vigilant. This is why the Concertation Committee instructed the Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, to contact his counterparts, particularly neighbouring countries, with a view to standardising the European approach. Actually, I'm not sure what I can say about this right now. Mr. Gilkinet made these contacts. The question is under consideration because if we don't have direct flights from Brazil, people enter our territory from other countries. In my view, a European approach is absolutely necessary. I will keep you informed as long as Mr. Gilkinet's survey and his contacts with his counterparts yield concrete results. As far as contamination at the workplace is concerned, Mrs Merckx, I have already said something about this when I spoke about the rapid tests. I think there should actually be more enthusiasm for that. I can see the difficulties too. It is not so easy to test the staff who cannot work by tele twice a week. But to be honest, I think that should go further. We have ordered 330,000 tests; so more should be tested. But, of course, there's not just that. The ministerial decision states that employers must allow their staff to work as much as possible and, if this is not possible, they must take the necessary technical, organisational and material measures to ensure compliance with social discrimination rules as far as possible. To help with this, a generic guide has been developed together with the social partners of the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. This generic guide has been supplemented by sectoral guides, which the general guide can fill in sector-specific. With the FOD WASO we also try to make the stakeholders aware of the measures through posters and campaigns on social media. For example, a webinar has recently been organised on telework and the prevention of musculoskeletal problems and psychosocial risks in telework. Since 1 April, employers have also been obliged to communicate monthly to the RSZ the number of employees in enterprises unable to work telework and the number of employees working telework. We also put sanctions in place to enforce those obligations. The electronic registration system made available by the RSZ since 27 March 2021 via the Social Security Portal should facilitate the work of the Social Inspection. A question was asked about the RSZ data on the contamination of personnel in various sectors and sub-sectors. Indeed, thanks to the Crossroads Bank, we can make a combination of data on employment in the sectors and data on positive covid contamination. That data is also used by the GEMS. I am a little ahead of schedule, but I can tell you that soon I will not be able to put a date on it. A true validated scientific publication will be published on our findings in different sectors. In summary with a very broad brush, it cannot be established that there are more structural infections in certain sectors than in other sectors throughout the pandemic. That depends on when we are in the pandemic. We notice substantial increases in certain sectors in certain months. I can tell you that the conclusion from this work is that the measures taken in relation to specific sectors such as hotels or contact professions were justified and the obligation to maximum teleworking. The scientific research on the prevalence of infections in economic life sub-sectors, which is detailed and robust, will be published shortly. As far as the testing strategy is concerned, I may not need to repeat how the task force testing, led by Professor Goossens, works. For example, we want to make it possible to experiment with specific settings to see what else we can do to return to normal life, particularly in the cultural sector, in the event sector, in the sport sector. We want to lay down the criteria for these experiments and the procedure to be followed. In fact, it is intended to be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Health Ministers tomorrow morning. This will undoubtedly also be discussed at the meeting of the Consultative Committee, which will take place shortly. I believe that we will be able to organise experiments more easily to the extent that the epidemic is regaining control. These experiments must have a real scientific added value. We look at them in stages. In a first phase, scientific added value is really essential. As has already been said, we do not need to repeat what has already happened abroad. We must try to build on what has happened abroad. In a second phase, I believe, the word "experiments" can also refer to simply learning to implement certain practices, of certain settings, in order to ensure that when those practices become normal, they are effectively properly applied. The question about Brazil has also been put by us on the agenda of the General Affairs Council. This has been put on the agenda of the General Affairs Council by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I have not had any feedback to date. Mrs Depoorter had questions about the self-tests and what the FAGG has done in this area. There has been a slight misunderstanding because there has been no collective closure of the FAGG during the Easter recess. I dare even say that many employees of the FAGG have hardly had holidays or free weekends since the start of the pandemic. So there was no collective closure. When it comes to self-testing, 3 independent evaluations are required to demonstrate that the sensitivity of the antigen test is at least 95 % with samples with a CT value of less than or equal to 25. In addition, 1 study is requested, i.e. not a 3-year study demonstrating that the test is suitable as a self-test. These terms and conditions have been communicated from the outset via the website of the FAGG. They have also remained unchanged. The reason for asking for these studies is that there is no intervention by a notified body in this exceptional procedure. Normally, such studies would simply be requested from a notified body and checked. That is not possible in this particular procedure, however, and we are therefore asking the companies to produce these studies themselves. The two- to three-week consultation with the sector federation BeMedTech indicated the direction of the derogation procedure. As soon as the procedure was completed, it was posted by the FAGG on the website and was accessible to everyone. BeMedTech was also asked to distribute this news in the sector. In the context of the examination of applications, there has also been contact with suppliers. Files containing all the requested information correctly can be quickly analysed and approved. This was also the case for the two tests already on the list. In the Netherlands too, where a very similar procedure applies, these were the first two tests allowed. Although the procedure has been going on for a long time in the Netherlands, only four tests have been approved on this too. Unfortunately, the other files submitted so far are either incomplete or unclear or contain information that appears to be wrong. There are a lot of small players in the Belgian market, who have no experience with medical devices, but who have quickly submitted a file without actually knowing the legislation or procedure. As a result, there is a problem with information provided. The handling and answering of these files takes a great deal of time. That also slows down the whole process. Since everything is treated chronologically, and I think this is the essence of fair play in this one, this means that the waiting time for other players is indeed increasing. Since the publication of the procedure on 18 March, more than 600 e-mails have been sent to the antigen mailbox in a short time. This concerns questions from companies, distributors, pharmacies and the final application files. The validation conditions have been published on the website of the FAGG and are accessible to everyone. We have tried to strengthen the FAGG. We have asked the Chairman of the Task Force on Vaccination, Professor Dirk Ramaekers, to represent our country on the European Steering Board, where the purchase of vaccines and, above all, the distribution of vaccines are discussed. That allowed Xavier Decuyper, the administrator-general of the FAGG, to be relieved, because he was very heavily taxed. I believe that the coordination between Professor Ramaekers and the administrator-general is going well and is also contributing a great deal to the better management and organisation of the FAGG's work relating to covid, in addition to the many work that the FAGG constantly has with activities that are not directly related to covid. How do we get advice from the FAGG's advisory board on vaccines? You can request them from the secretariat of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Mrs Creemers, you have quite rightly understood. The guards can be vaccinated immediately. The vaccination will take place in prison, at the same time as the prisoners who are over 65 years of age or who have certain underlying conditions. This is done at once in prison for the sake of efficiency. In practice, therefore, there is not much difference between the vaccination of prisoners over 65 years of age or with comorbidity, and the vaccination of the general population over 65 years of age or with comorbidity. The timing may be slightly different, because the prisoners are vaccinated in prison, which makes sense. Prisoners under 65 years of age without comorbidity are eligible at the beginning of phase 2. This will also be done in prisons for the sake of efficiency and security. For the time being, we only vaccinate people from 18 years of age, except for 16- or 17-year-olds working in health care, for example as an intern. There is such a very sympathetic and well-known case in the press of a young man who has been vaccinated as an intern. That's a good story. I refer to the Community ministers, who are the most important players in this area, for how the mobile teams are deployed. Vaccination at home is already possible in very specific cases - in particular of gravitational patients. But it must remain exceptional. The vaccine is then administered by a professional in the first line, e.g. a general practitioner. As far as the involvement of doctors is concerned, I share the view that this is important, especially since they have an important bond of trust with their patients. We have discussed this: trust does not necessarily imply the administration of a dose of a vaccine. It also involves advising its patients to be vaccinated, or even more simply by being vaccinated. We have read that in a few regions there are low vaccination rates among health care professionals in nursing homes. I think that's a priority. I believe that, too, the doctor must encourage everyone, and also the staff, to be vaccinated. I do not anticipate the decisions and recommendations of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), on which several questions were asked. At present, we are expecting a statement from the EEA on the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. On Thursday we expect more precision on the recommendations of the EEA for the AstraZeneca vaccine. We have insisted, and we have been promised, that the EEA would go beyond the mere observation that there are side effects in the younger group of vaccinees and earlier in the women, which are sometimes, in very rare cases, serious, such as the combination of thromboses and thrombocytopenia. It is necessary to examine this further and we would like to receive a recommendation from the EEA, which makes a more detailed distinction between different age cohorts. For example, we can measure by age cohort the balance between the risks of side effects and the benefits of vaccination. I hope that, on Thursday, for the AstraZeneca vaccine, we will get a better view of this because of the EEA. I also hope that at some point we will get more data and more insight into what we do best with the second dose for the different vaccines, in particular for the AstraZeneca vaccine. I do not know if we will get an answer soon, but the question has certainly been asked. I therefore do not want to anticipate our possible response to an opinion that we still have to get on the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and on more specific, detailed and precise recommendations that we hope to get on the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. We will adapt our policies to this, if necessary. We always do this on the basis of the scientific advice we receive. In doing so, we are always balancing the need for rapid progress in the vaccination campaign, on the one hand, and, of course, the absolute priority for the safety of vaccines, on the other. So you will understand that I am not getting ahead of the issue now, because we are waiting for further opinions. It is essential that people are convinced that all the data come on the table in all transparency. I would remind you of Mr Bacquelaine's fine expression in plenary: 'Vaccins sur table, cartes sur table'. Everything must be clear; everything must be documented and people must have the information. We must act together as far as possible at European level. In my opinion, that is really essential. Questions have been asked by Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Zanchetta about Pfizer's deliveries. Mrs Depoorter, the announcement by Pfizer of extra vaccines is good news. I now assume that it is actually about 1.25 million vaccines that have been completed. These are vaccines that are delivered earlier than planned. However, delivering that earlier is very good news. The planning for the next few weeks is as follows. In the week of 26 April 2021, 396.630 Pfizer doses will be available; in the week of 3 May 2021, 361.530 Pfizer doses will be available and in the week of 10 May there will be 361.530 Pfizer doses. In the week of 17 May 2021, 363,870 Pfizer doses will be available. The week of 24 May 2021 will be 363,870. The week of 31 May 2021 we talk about 733.590 Pfizer doses in one week. So you notice, that's good news, that's promising, but it also means a real stress test for the proper organisation of the vaccination campaign. I hear there is a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of good will and a positive atmosphere in many vaccination centers, thanks to the commitment of the professionals; as well as of the volunteers. In any case, the organisation will be put to the test. That is going to be very important and it is really essential. Questions have been asked about contacts and consultations between FAGG and Henogen. The follow-up contacts consisted of weekly and then biweekly meetings, with the intention to quickly track down any type of production problem. At the moment, these meetings are limited to ad hoc meetings, as is the case with each pharmaceutical producer. The shipment of vaccines from Anagni to Belgium goes to the site of Yusen Logistics. As regards the quantities going through Belgium to other Member States or abroad, only the quantities intended for export are controlled by the Belgian authorities. The competent authority is the FPS Economy. As far as variant vaccines and booster vaccines are concerned, as we know, such a virus unfortunately tries to circumvent the accumulated immune mechanisms with clever mutations. This includes the South African, British and Brazilian versions. The more people have been vaccinated, the greater the immune pressure on the virus. Only mutants who manage to make the vaccines less workable can survive. We can adapt the vaccines to the variants, but it is always a question of whether they will be resistant to variants that are still emerging. The Task Force Vaccination closely follows the studies on the variants. It is, of course, intended to always have vaccines available for all existing variants as far as possible. This means that they need to be developed, they need to be clinically validated and so on. There is a whole programme for this at European level, and I am not going into that now. At the moment, I cannot tell you more about the updates of the different vaccines, when they will be available, when we will have a ruling on them and so on. These are very important issues, but I cannot anticipate them. As far as the question by Mr De Caluwe, for example, is concerned, yes, vaccination readiness is indeed an important one. As chairman of the task force, Professor Ramaekers expressed his concern about this and I do not think that this is innocent. It is well known that vaccination is more difficult in some regions, but we also know that great efforts are being made there. A great effort is needed in Brussels to help overcome the hesitation about vaccination. Our task force supports the Länder with material, sometimes in more than 25 languages, including displays in the pharmacies, information boards in primary care and radio programmes. In addition, the Brussels Region also engages in direct contact with citizens and sends mobile teams in consultation with organisations that can reach socially vulnerable groups. There are also a lot of studies on this. I will not repeat all that information; they have been quoted in the press. In any case, it is important that these efforts are made. Mrs Depoorter, as far as the syringes of the S-Group are concerned, it has not been said that otherwise I must improve myself; I am always prepared to do so because those syringes did not have enough quality in absolute terms to be used as syringes. That wasn't said. It has been said that the quality is not comparable to the quality of the syringes for which we already had an ongoing contract. The hospital pharmacists and the vaccination centres that tested the syringes made the following comments: the edge prevents a good grip, the syringe works hard, with a plunger sticking to the wall when the doses are withdrawn and there is a systematic underdosing of 0.29 milliliters instead of 0.3 milliliters, there are more air bubbles in the vaccine that are impossible to remove without tapping the syringe, which is annoying, because RNA vaccines are shock-sensitive. I'm just reading what comes out in the report. I hope the producer does not blame me, but you are asking for it. The conclusion was that these syringes could be an alternative when delivery problems arise, but that they are not the first choice, because VPEX's syringes proved to be qualitatively superior on the ground based on the tests. However, as a result of some production difficulties in expanding production facilities, the company VPEX was delayed in its deliveries. To cope with possible shortages, the S-Group offered a buffer stock to our country so that the deliveries of zero-dead volume syringes to our vaccination centres would not be interrupted. The supply of the 0.33 euro per syringe of S-Group was only received by the federal government after the order of 10 million pieces had been approved by the Council of Ministers and the order was placed with the supplier. However, there are conversations with VPEX to revise the price agreed with the company. Follow-up of the FAGG files shall be carried out in accordance with specified procedures and agreed agreements. There is no arbitrariness. Mr Bacquelaine, as far as the method of injection is concerned, for each vaccine, the entire vaccination process has been the subject of a specific standard operating procedure. This document, which is accessible to all on the Internet, sets out the different steps to follow from the control of the vaccine to its administration at the upper arm of the patient. The issue of vaccine injection is also addressed. It states, inter alia, that according to the WHO recommendations and the documentation provided by the pharmaceutical companies for each vaccine, there is no need for an aspiration test and that the vaccine dose should be injected immediately after the needle has been inserted into the deltoid muscle. Mr Bacquelaine, as I am not a doctor, I can only read the answer given to me, but I should like to know that the work is being done on this basis. Mrs Merckx, you have come back to the debate on patents. I would like to repeat what I said earlier. I agree in principle with many of the arguments to which you refer, but the immediate production problems of the last few months would not, I believe, have been solved. Mrs Creemers, you mentioned the software problems at QVAX. Honestly, you're critical. You must be. Isn't QVAX a phenomenal realization of officials working for it day and night, more than you and I? Day and night! I can call these people at midnight, on Sunday, on Saturday, in the morning at 6:00. Shouldn't we say, "Thank you" in the first place? Of course, when people start something like that, they certainly have problems. There has indeed been a problem, and you can say that it was predictable, with a queue at the startup. That queue was annoying, indeed, but no bugs have been established. The system has not proved unavailable at any time. By midnight of the first day the queue was resolved, and after that there was no new queue. There was no need for everyone to register on the reserve list at the same time. That was an important fact, which we tried to explain. That system, QVAX, doesn't work according to the principle of first in, first out. People are invited on the basis of their priority. Maybe that wasn't clear enough. You know that, of course, but we had to explain this very clearly so that people did not feel that they should have registered as soon as possible. More than 610,000 people have already been entered on the reserve list. Of them, 15,000 have been vaccinated. You know that citizens can consult all their health information held in different places via the platform www.mijngezondheid.be, including the one on possible contamination and vaccination. From the central gateway one can click on all personal health data that is kept online by other platforms. Mrs Merckx, you had a question about the income guarantee in case of quarantine. At the outbreak of the crisis in March 2020, the previous government took measures to maximise the impact of the quarantine for both employees and self-employed persons who could not carry out their normal professional activities. This was in line with the instruments already known, namely temporary unemployment for workers and the right of bridging for reasons of force majeure for the self-employed. The amounts have now been increased and access conditions have been relaxed. These measures against the economic impact have also been made accessible to those who have been placed in quarantine or isolation, and for whom temporary occupational activity as an employed or self-employed person cannot be carried out because of the reception of a child whose school or nursery has taken all or part of quarantine or isolation measures. This has even recently been extended to the de facto extended Easter leave of the schools because of the more limited possibilities of the holiday camps. At the end of last week, the April 2021 edition of the COVIVAT analysis was published, which shows that these measures have been able to protect the income of workers to an important extent, but of course never fully. With what I say about this, there is always the problem of whether the glass is half full or half empty, Mrs Merckx. Against the positive is also the negative. On the positive side, two thirds of workers did not lose their income by 2020. This is not a small number of people who have lost their income, but, unfortunately, lower incomes are more important than what they normally mean in the working population. Especially for those affected by the inability to work for a long period of time, those who are temporarily unemployed for a long period of time, there is clearly a significant impact on disposable income, despite reinforced protection measures. The conclusion is that the measures taken were more than welcome, albeit not sufficient to fully protect the people. We have precisely ensured that people who are long-term victims of temporary unemployment and have low wages are, as it were, extra protected by a protection premium. I think it is important that these measures are adopted and, if necessary, renewed. Mrs Merckx, you suggest that the employer should ensure full income retention in case of quarantine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u24	We have indeed tabled a legislative proposal for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u25	That is something we must think about. If you place a full social risk with an employer, you will have a great deal of pressure on those workers and on companies that have been disproportionately affected. This may run counter to the idea that we have a socially inclusive, publicly organised social security system, which takes away some risks from employers. There are interesting debates about what happens, for example, in a country such as the Netherlands, where a large proportion of the risks of long-term illness come from employers. The effects of this are shown. I do not know whether what you are proposing in this proposal is such a good and supportive idea, but we can certainly discuss it later. Mrs Rohonyi, there is a serological study to determine the immunity of young people. The first results of this study were published in a press release and a report on 30 March 2021. This study was conducted through schools and includes a representative sample of Belgian children aged 6 to 15. The initial results of the study are convincing enough to allow some flexibility in the organization of education and other activities for children up to the age of 15. Ms. Fonck, several monoclonal antibodies are developed or are being developed for passive immunization of the patient. Many trials are under way, some of which are in phase 3. Because of the long half-life, only one infusion is generally used and as such, treatment has the theoretical potential to prevent or prevent disease progression. Monotherapies are being developed but there are also combinations of two monoclonal antibodies. Variants resistant to monoclonal antibody therapy are of concern, and this is the case for monotherapy. There may be differences in resistance between different therapeutic combinations. EMA gave a positive opinion on the use of the monoclonal antibodies of Regeneron-Roche, Eli Lilly and Celltiron. This is an opinion enabling decision-making at national level. A new assessment should be initiated to obtain advice on GSK monoclonal antibodies. Treatment of covid-19 patients should be initiated as soon as possible after diagnosis. There is no significant effect on clinical criteria in patients already hospitalized. This makes administration complex. Intravenous treatment is required in potentially contagious patients, which requires hospital administration for patients who are, at this stage, not hospitalized. This question is therefore complicated. Current data support a reduction in hospitalizations. However, the number of patients to be treated to avoid hospitalization is high, which is problematic given the need for hospitalization for administration. This number is necessary to treat to avoid hospitalization and could probably be reduced by defining more precisely the patient population. However, data to define this patient population are very limited and further research is needed. Severely immunocompromised patients are the first group of patients to be considered for administration. We may also consider administering this treatment to high-risk, unvaccinated patients: patients of advanced age, obese, cardiovascular disease, chronic lung disease, type I or II diabetes, chronic kidney disease and chronic liver disease. However, there is a high likelihood that these patients will gain an adequate benefit from vaccination. These patients are also the first to be vaccinated. In view of the lack of sufficient evidence in these specific patient groups, monoclonal antibody treatment could be considered on a case-by-case basis, after balancing the individual risks and benefits, provided that this treatment is administered early after the onset of infection, before any need for oxygen, in patients at high risk of clinical deterioration. This recommendation is based on its demonstrated antiviral effect, but with a lack of sufficient evidence on the type of patients who would benefit most from this treatment. This is also described in the therapeutic guidelines for Sciensano. The GAR follows the situation and the evolution of knowledge day after day and is currently discussing the joint purchase of monoclonal antibodies, the usefulness of these therapies and the possibilities of distribution and administration to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u26	Mrs Van Camp, I come to your question about the compensation premiums for home nursing protective equipment. In accordance with the procedure in force for the publication of a Royal Decree, the RIZIV, having been approved by the Insurance Committee, sought the opinion of the Treasury Inspection. The Treasury inspection issued a negative opinion, stating in particular that the amount of the flat rate of EUR 2.5 per patient contact would have been overestimated and that the flat rate per patient contact for dentists, doctors-specialists in otorinolaryngology and doctors-specialists in stomatology was particularly high, EUR 20, compared to the other flat rate of EUR 2.5 per contact for the other healthcare providers mentioned in Article 2 of the Royal Decree. The RIZIV has motivated and responded in detail to this opinion and has provided this argument to the Secretary of State for Budget. On 16 April, the RIZIV also replied to the additional questions put by the Secretary of State for the Budget. Since then, the Secretary of State has had all the elements she needs to make a decision. We await her decision. As soon as it is known, the RIZIV will make every effort to implement the provisions of the decision quickly. I told you before, we work here in periods. The third Royal Decree is foreseen for the third period, which runs from 1 December 2020 to 30 June 2021. Mrs Fonck, as regards employees in the home nursing sector under the Joint Committee 330.01.30, a Memorandum of Understanding was concluded in the Joint Chamber concerned on 18 November 2020. Under this protocol, employers committed to pay this premium by December 31, 2020. If the paid home nurses have not yet received the premium, they can see with their employer whether they are covered by this joint committee 330.01.30, and whether there are specific reasons for non-payment. The Royal Decree concerning the incentive premium for home nurses will be published shortly; this will trigger the payment procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u27	Minister, it is almost symbolic that you almost forgot the care staff until you saw us sitting here. I am pleased that you will be able to do so if colleagues ask questions about it. Finally, you answered our important question. It's the same answer you gave last time, and I'm still a little disgusted about it. You say you passed on an estimate that the cabinet thought was too high. I also said at the time that you are in the same government. Isn't that pre-spoken? I really don't understand. Now you're also saying you're waiting for the decision. The exact impact that this has on home care benefits and other sectors is not clear. You didn't answer that question. You also did not mention what you will do to make up for the missed period. I will put these questions again until they have been answered. I will also ask your colleague how it is that the motivation was apparently too low. Do I have to say that the Secretary of State for the Budget did not judge you and our question sufficiently high about that? I really can't believe that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I had indeed asked a question about the length of stay in hospitals because of covid in the different provinces and the differences there. You indicate that in Limburg, where the stays were shorter, not all hospitals have reported. They have to pass on that information, don't they? Isn't it true that the forfaits are determined on the basis of the nursing days for the sake of covid? Are those records real? Where can I get that? As far as Easter breaks are concerned, is there no analysis of the decision to close the schools a week earlier? Well, there's a trade-off there, isn't there? On the one hand, the number of contacts may be limited, but on the other hand, they are controlled contacts. The testing is also very much driven up there. What's that trade-off and analysis over there? Did we take enough advantage of the Easter break to justify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u29	There is no other country, Belgium, that we can regard as a laboratory in which we would not have imposed the closure. You naturally agree that we cannot do laboratory experiments with the policy against the epidemic. We'll make a decision. We are assuming, and I am absolutely convinced that if we had not taken that decision, we would face quite a lot more problems than the problems we face today. This is apparent from the very rapid increase in the number of infections observed in children and young people prior to that week. We can see that. We notice this impact after a holiday period, for example after the two weeks we took with the autumn holiday, the Christmas holiday or the crocus holiday, which was also extended. You just have to look at the curve of the infections in children. You can see that this curve is falling during holiday or closure periods. She's coming at a lower point. That's very good to see. When the schools open again and there is a retest as before, we see that there are fewer infections. They have been somewhat eliminated. Unfortunately, and despite the best will in the world, we see that these infections are beginning to increase again from that moment on. There is even a kind of exponential development in determining the number of clusters. That's nobody's fault. The schools are doing the best they can. The idea that we could have allowed the schools to work quietly at the point where we were standing is really a mistake. I have to admit that sometimes I have some difficulty understanding the spirit of the debate, as if there were people suggesting that the schools should just close down. From the very first day the government was formed, I stated that my top priority was to keep the schools open. I have also been Minister of Education, with heart and soul. My top priority was to keep the schools open. I have to admit that keeping the schools open is much more important than anything else. The problem is, of course, that colleagues from the various sub-governments have come to argue in favour of all kinds of sectors: schools, culture, sport, catering. If they were satisfied with just the schools, we would, of course, be more able to keep the schools open and open. However, it is precisely because they also look at other sectors, which I do not think is a reproach, that there is some kind of balance. So we cannot just decide to keep the schools open indefinitely at a time when we see a wave of contamination going through the schools, even if it is limited and the schools are not the engine of it. There is therefore no doubt that we can at some point be forced to stop contact education. There is no doubt about that. We don't do lab experiments with that. It is clear, however, that there would be more infections among the 0-to-19 year olds if we were to allow the evolution to continue. Just look at the curves. It is to be hoped that they will not take over soon. It's the reason we all have to be very careful right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u30	I think we differ in that regard. By testing in schools one brings up more what else does not come up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u31	It's not like people are starting to test anymore. Infections are seen to increase week after week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u32	Sciensano has shown that the infections in the school population are no higher than those in the general population. I'd like to question that a little bit. I'd still like to see the evaluation of the Easter break. On the figures of the RSZ and the infections in the various occupational categories, you say that there is a very detailed report coming. Why can't we see these figures in the weekly report? They're delivered to Sciensano, aren't they? They use it for their analysis. What is your attitude to pilot projects and events? Can we expect them soon or are they still being postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u33	I'm in favour of that, and the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u34	I shall then give the floor to the next group, Ecolo-Green, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u35	I want to apologize to Mrs. Hennuy. She can hear us, but she can't reply. I'll take a little of her time. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You say that in the meantime about 200,000 self-tests and about 330,000 rapid tests have been distributed to companies. I think it is clear why small companies do not go into this. They have far too little contact with their company doctor. I know several small businesses where telework is not possible. They do not call on their company doctor for those tests. For them, the threshold for working with the company doctor is far too high. Perhaps we should introduce a different test system there, with tests that can be easily carried out by ourselves. I know that the approximately 700,000 rapid tests that you had foreseen may not be appropriate, but if we can disable the intervention of the company doctor, especially small companies that do not have daily or weekly contact with the company doctor, much more flexible entry into the system. I would also like to thank you for your detailed answer on the prisons. I am pleased that prison staff will be vaccinated together with the 65-plussers and the people with underlying diseases. We've been asking for a while before that. I think this is indeed the most efficient. You spoke for a moment about the doubt that still exists around AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson and what we need to do to raise the vaccination rate. I think one thing has to do with the other when one sees how many people are afraid of that vaccine, while they take a Perdolan every week for the pain without reading the package leaflet. Our attitude has always been very good by saying that we continue, based on the figures, on the risks and on what the scientists tell us, because we trust in that vaccine and we believe in its effectiveness. I hope that Europe will continue to support us in this and that we can continue to follow that line. As far as QVAX is concerned, I would like to thank everyone who has worked very hard on this. I was just surprised that the waiting list was easy to bypass and that some people waited eight hours to get the message that their vaccination centre wasn't participating. Conversely, I thought it would be easier. You call me critical, and I think that is a compliment. As far as my question on care staff is concerned, thank you for your explanation. I find it odd that the Secretary of State for the Budget has doubts as to whether these costs are correct. We all know that these costs were hugely high, that the market was virtually unavailable and that prices for personal protective equipment were very high. I keep finding it a difficult story and I haven't fully understood when it will be effective now. I have heard you say "end of June," but is that the deadline on which the care staff will get that premium effectively? I didn't quite understand that, but maybe we'll come back to that next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. The number of self-tests performed is actually small. Of course, one can only hope that companies where teleworking is not possible will seize the opportunity to order it. I understand your caution with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. We will await the opinion of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) on this. But I am still reassured to hear that the upcoming delivery, including doses of Pfizer vaccine, should give another boost to the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u37	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the prospect of a safe covid label is under consideration within the task forces. It is obvious that it will be difficult to define the conditions for obtaining this label, but also to ensure that it is controlled. However, it is essential to implement and exploit any realistic, prudent and responsible path, as it is necessary to arrive at a perspective enabling a social, economic, sporting and cultural life while guaranteeing the management of hospital care and therefore the lives of all those who are still in danger today. I therefore expect you to continue this important and necessary work. Let's move on! Let's put the double bites on! If this track works, let's do it. If this is not the case, proceed to another runway and analyze other lanes. I know you won't sell a dream because it's not your style. That's not what I'm asking you. I just ask you to give us realistic and responsible perspectives with a government that is continuing its work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u38	Thank you for your answers, Minister, at least for the answers I received. With regard to the mobile vaccination team in cooperation with the Defense Department, I still haven't had an answer. Maybe I should also ask the question in the Committee on Defence: let's see who's the fastest. To the question about vaccination of 16- and 17-year-olds with underlying conditions together with the 18-plussers, you answer that you do not want to do so for the time being, while the EEA has given the green light to do so. You regularly say that you are waiting for the EEA, but if you are given the green light, then you do not take that into account and it does not seem to be important. For a 16- or 17-year-old with an underlying condition it may be vital to be vaccinated. Why is that not a priority for you, now that the EEA also says that the young people concerned could perfectly receive the Pfizer vaccine? I take note of your answer and pass it on to the people who asked me the question. I'm sorry it can't happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u39	If my other colleagues do not wish to speak before me, I would simply like to thank the Minister for having made it clear that discussions were under way between the ministers concerned with the cultural and event sectors, with a view to conducting experiments on the basis of rapid antigenic tests and protocols, such as the test concerts held in Barcelona. I also hear discussions are under way with Commissioner Corona. I will therefore allow myself to come back to this issue in order to obtain an update on the discussions in the coming weeks. I think it is really important to be able to take advantage of foreign experiences in order to apply them at home, without having to go through all these validations. There is a real urgency for certain sectors to be allowed to resume their activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u40	Minister, I have some elements of reply on vaccines and patents. You're still saying it's not a solution to lift the patents. I don't know if you read Standard yesterday. In De Standaard it was about increasing the prices by Pfizer. It was said that in Denmark the top man of the company Bavarian Nordic complained at the beginning of February that he had the production capacity at his disposal, but that the vaccine developers did not want to conclude an agreement with him, although his company was able to produce enough vaccines for the whole of Scandinavia in a week. I do not know who else to say it all, but when so many Nobel Prize winners, scientists and also people from political circles say that the lifting of these patents is a solution to this global problem, we expect you to make a statement about it at some point. However, you do not make a single statement about Big Pharma's profit appetite. You keep saying it's not a solution. In that sense, you are now complicit in the scandal that is going on at world level. We will not be able to get out of the pandemic if we do not lift the patents. I believe it is time for people who bear responsibility, such as you, ministers who have to manage matters today, to enter into discussions with the pharmaceutical companies and begin to say that those patents must be lifted. If you don't, I'm sorry, you're actually an accessory to this hold-up. As far as quarantine is concerned, I think you misunderstood us. Our legislative proposal does indeed propose a compromise, which means that people who have to go into quarantine must be paid 100% wages in a first phase by social security. Why? I think we really need to make the difference between economic unemployment and quarantine. That's two completely different things. It was quickly decided to put those people on technical unemployment, but in the end it has nothing to do with it. Someone who has to go into quarantine today gets 70% of their pay, while someone who is sick just gets 100 percent of their health insurance. I believe that we really need to ensure that quarantine becomes a separate statute that is recognised, because we are far from out of the question, especially if the patents of vaccines are not lifted. Then we are left with outbreaks for a long time and with people who have to be quarantined. It must, of course, continue to be discussed with the social partners on how to finance this, because we cannot, of course, place any responsibility on companies. Thirdly, I would like to comment on your reply on the infections in the farms. You're talking about telework again, but that's not the problem. The problem is that people get infected and clusters are created in places where telework is not possible. We did a study on the patients in our general practitioners' practice: 35 of the 36 patients who were infected on the workplace, so not in the family circle, could not do telework. So you just let people order tests, but you don't check whether they are actually working on them and whether they are being tested. I find your answer very disappointing. This way we will not get there and the clusters within the companies will continue to cause damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'd like to use my reply time for something else. You just emphasised that the FAGG was not collectively closed during the Easter holiday. You added that since March last year, and sometimes even in the past, those people have hardly been able to take holidays, and even have had few weekends off. I think it's good that you remind us of that. This applies not only to the FAGG, but also to many other public services, such as the FPS Public Health and Sciensano, but also to the people in the present and former Cabinets have worked very hard. We have heard this on several occasions in the special committee COOVID-19. All these people work in particularly difficult circumstances, every day, and they never get applause for that. These people are doing a tremendous amount of work, as you yourself said. If you ask me, they do it pretty well. I would like to thank them for that. So much for my brief speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u42	That goes for all of us, of course. We have great respect for everyone who works hard behind the scenes to manage everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, it can be said that home care services – especially nurses – do not seem to be the government's loved ones. It has been months since these issues had to be resolved. I will come back to that, for lack of a clear solution. Still, it is a matter of concern that you still do not respond to the directions to optimize the use of Pfizer and Moderna vaccines to compensate for the lack of use of AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson for under-fives. For information, the EMA will publish its decision in a few minutes, at 5 p.m. Nor will you provide any response to the priority vaccination of teachers and children's caregivers from zero to three years of age. To tell you frankly, Minister, I am mad at you! I blame you, on behalf of all these immunocompromised children, whose parents urgently need to be vaccinated to protect them. It's probably less sexy than the issue of athletes and athletes, but I think it's amazing, minister, that you need to re-examine this issue week after week, without these children ever being taken into consideration. I'm telling you the way I think it is! At times, you have to remember the forgotten, otherwise no one will. As far as testing is concerned, I understand that you have made tests available, but that the Ministers of Education do not follow. I am convinced that we must make self-tests a reflex gesture, as we have done for barrier gestures. When I hear some colleagues, as well as you yourself, talking about covid safe protocols, I would like to point out that this is not only about ventilation, but also testing and tracing for greater efficiency. I also do not agree with you about the Brazilian variant, because you did not talk about the Indian – the B1.117, which is obviously just as problematic. You're sending everything back to the European level. Of course, the coordination issues are at stake, but Belgium must also take responsibility for this policy, in particular to ensure much more effective isolation and repeated testing via the PCR. When it is understood that 76% of passengers do not take the second test when they return from travel, there is reason to be concerned. The Brazilian and Indian variants also put us at risk. Look at the figures from the UK: the Indian variant is growing impressively, as it has doubled in the space of a few days. Finally, I must inform you of my incomprehension, because we are the only country that has not ordered monoclonal antibodies. This is not a slight reduction in hospitalizations. The FAST-3 study shows a 70% reduction in hospitalizations and deaths for monoclonal antibody combination. EMA gave a clear favourable opinion in February. It's April. Belgium is one of the only countries not to have ordered. This obviously concerns very fragile patients. This is not everyone's concern, but it is a therapeutic lever that we need because it is an important hope for some patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, I would like to comment on what you have told us about the situation in hospitals. I agree with you quite well when you say that the crux of the problem is not the lack of beds in intensive care, but the lack of qualified staff to be able to supervise. Where I am not joining you, on the other hand, is when you say that the only way to remedy this lack is to reduce the number of hospitalizations. Of course, short-term hospitalizations need to be reduced, but health care professions, particularly intensive care nurses, need to be upgraded in the medium to long term. However, I continue to wonder what has been done in this regard within a year. I also want to go back to the famous covid safe label. I hear we have to wait until Friday's Codeco to find out more. You're not closing the door to this label. You say that this Ventilation Task Force is considering it, even if it will take time to be put in place. I still have to remind you that we're not leaving anything. For months, I've been asking you about air, surface decontamination devices, UVCs, etc. Mr Minister, can you therefore assure us today that this task force is studying all these devices? You've been talking about up-to-date opinions in progress, but we don't know what they're going to be about. Will this task force do so in consultation with sectors that have been working on strict health protocols for months? I think they're really in the best position to tell you what's realistic and effective. At the same time, the announced test concerts were cancelled. We don't know why. Do you not think that, in doing so, we unnecessarily delay the setting up of this label covid safe? As far as young people are concerned, I join my colleague, Catherine Fonck. The vaccination of teachers really seems to be a taboo for the government. It is incomprehensible when we see the urgency of providing answers to young people, especially the younger ones. Furthermore, you tell us that there is a serological study on the immunity of young people, and that the results of this study are quite convincing, to the point of organizing flexibility in certain activities. However, I do not see such flexibility emerging from the latest decisions of the Conciliation Committee. Can you give us the references for this study? Indeed, in doing some research at the moment, I found only one study published in the journal JAMA on the level of antibodies in young people, by age groups, but not on the proportion of young people who would have developed immunity against covid-19. I think that these results, coupled with the psychological distress of young people, deserve a specific Codeco on youth, or at least, that you commit yourself to having the next Codeco on Friday take it into account to frame the festive meeting places for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u45	Minister, I have another question. You mentioned the outdoor plan that could start on 8 May if everything went well. So the only thing that could throw soot in the food is the vaccination rate that wouldn't be high enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic440x.u46	It has been said that enough people must have been vaccinated in the group of 65-plussers, i.e. 70%. Furthermore, the situation of intensive care must be improved sustainably.
