ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u2	Colleagues, The images of the floods that have hit our country since 14 July are still well present in our minds. Torrents of mud that invade the streets and houses, waves that break by taking everything in the way. Destroyed schools. Thirty-eight deaths, one missing person and two hundred and two affected communes. Thousands of victims, many of whom are homeless. This is the result of one of the worst natural disasters in Belgium's history. Not to mention the huge damage to infrastructure and public buildings, industrial and commercial buildings. Not to mention the waste treatment, reconstruction and financial resources that will be required. Words are insufficient to describe the material but, above all, human distress associated with this catastrophe. A disaster that has also hit the Netherlands and Germany in full swing: water knows no borders and climate change either. However, there were also very hopeful signals. First there was the unbridled deployment of the emergency services and the army: for days they did a titanic job to meet the worst needs. Round the clock, in all modesty and humility. They deserve our respect and our gratitude. There was also the wave of solidarity from all over the country. Ordinary men and women spontaneously sheltered fellow citizens who had lost everything, or went along to clean up and clean up. At the Red Cross, gifts flowed within both individuals and companies. Aid was also provided by several European countries, through the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism. It is up to policy makers to respond to emergencies but also to assess possible gaps and, above all, to respond to them through concrete and concerted actions. It is of course up to us to find ways to find a lasting solution to global warming and the environmental crisis. And this is only possible through maximum cooperation beyond the levels of power and borders. As representatives of our citizens, we have a duty to continue working for this cooperation, so that such disasters can be spared us in the future. The Minister would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in the words that have been made right now. As you said, Madam President, we have just experienced one of the most terrible natural disasters in our country's history, in addition to the context of the Coronavirus pandemic. This accumulation of misfortunes is an extremely hard blow for Belgian society as a whole and especially for the too many victims in Wallonia in Vlaanderen. We must never forget the 38 people who lost their lives in that terrible disaster. On behalf of the government, today I would like to express our deepest sympathy to their families and loved ones. Some survivors have lost everything and would find themselves totally deprived today if we could not count on solidarity. Spontaneous solidarity, first of all, and I was able to see it with my own eyes in my commune of Rochefort as in others, in all Wallonia or in Limburg. In each disaster zone, volunteers from all over Belgium, Wallonia, Flanders, Brussels and even abroad came to help those who needed it. From the bottom of my heart, I say to all those who helped, thank you. Your bet is catchy, I really mean that. Of course, I can only pay tribute to the solidarity that has been organised, whether on the front lines of relief services in the broad sense, or behind them, of all our public services, at all levels, which now make it possible to envisage rehousing and reconstruction for all. The dramatic event again shows that we are strong only if we are united and united.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u4	As a tribute to the victims of the floods, I would ask you to observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u5	We must accept and take the oath of office of the alternate who is to sit in place of Mrs Cécile Thibaut, who has resigned by letter of 2 September 2021. We must proceed with the authorisation and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mrs Cécile Thibaut, who resigned by letter of 2 September 2021. The alternate to replace her is Mr Olivier Vajda, alternate for the electoral district of Luxembourg. The successor to her will be Mr Olivier Vajda, successor to the Luxembourg constituency. Olivier Vajda's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. The credentials of Mr Olivier Vajda were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te levven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr Olivier Vajda to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Olivier Vajda to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u6	Mr Olivier Vajda will be part of the French linguistic group. Mr Olivier Vajda will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to see you all, hopefully in good health, after the recess. The words 'all of you' need to be nuanced, because here we are again performing in a very limited set-up. The government is also very limited in availability. I have heard in the media that some ministers have barely seen Mr De Croo, so we are still reasonably privileged. I would like to talk about Parliament's position. I suspect that I am the spokesman for all my fellow Members when I say that we hope for a good legislative year. That means we make laws and we control the government. That must be done in the most normal circumstances. Corona has created a problem there and therefore we can only attend parliamentary work in a limited manner. Our group, and I do not think that we alone have that concern, has insisted that we should be able to do the parliamentary work as soon as possible in normal circumstances. Every Member of Parliament has the right to enter at least this plenary Chamber and participate in the proceedings. To this end, we need to find a way in which, let us be honest, very complicated legislation, which is also reflected in the reports of the Court's legal services. Hence my condolences to the so-called 'ordinary citizen': we are well surrounded by lawyers, and we too are already stunned by difficulties to know what can and cannot be done, with all possible disputes of that kind. On behalf of my group, therefore, I would strongly urge that we follow the rules that are imposed, of course, but that we do not seek their most restrictive interpretation and that we can carry out our work in normal circumstances as soon as possible. This week, of course, we will be adding ourselves to the continuation of the rules, as we have known them to date. However, we urge that work be extended from next week onwards. The corona measures must not at any time stand in the way of normal democratic functioning, especially in view of the development of circumstances, where, fortunately, the pressure on hospitals is no longer at the level we have known. A second point I would like to raise is Parliament's relationship with the government. Over the past year, there's been a few pain points. Madam President, I am grateful for the fact that you yourself sent a letter to the government on 24 June 2021, in which you urged the government to send the Minister responsible to the Chamber for all the handling of draft laws, so that we could also hold the debate at the appropriate level in plenary. You sent that letter on 24 June 2021. At the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, which was not so long ago, a representative of the government, I quote, stated that the government would ensure that this presence is assured in the future. However, as early as today, an item is on the agenda, in particular the bill on Belgium's participation in the seventh global capital increase of the African Development Bank, tabled by Minister Kitir, who cannot be present today because of circumstances for which I respect the clarity of the matter. I very much regret that this discussion is being started today. It must be replaced by another minister. He or she may still be as well informed as possible, I cannot imagine that he or she can hold the debate in the same way as the minister concerned. That is already a breach of the agreement that this House has asked the government to make. I will not ask for a change to the agenda, because yesterday we found at the Conference of Presidents that the majority apparently wants to keep the item on the agenda. I do not think the urgency is necessary, but I would like to make use of this first meeting, and I would like to address myself to the representative of the government present here to point out that the government is already violating the promise made in June 2021 during the first plenary session. This is a particularly bad start to cooperation between Parliament, this House, and the government. I hope that this is the exception that will show that the rule will be followed from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u8	Madam President, at the start of the new parliamentary year, I would also like to discuss two points. Firstly, I agree with what Mr De Roover said. We call Parliament a hemisphere, but it is not intended to be half-occupied and half-filled, even today for barely a third of the capacity of the hemisphere. Every Member should have the right to be here. We have had this discussion several times in the Conference of Presidents. I hope that we will be able to meet there next week in order to be able to be present again with full occupancy from 1 October, because not only in very important debates such as a policy statement, which is coming very soon, it is the right of Members to attend the sitting, but that should also apply to all other meetings. Secondly, I refer to the letter that I sent to you yesterday asking for the next meeting of the Management Committee to see that Members' sick leave is reduced here too, as should be the case in all Parliaments. There is a broad consensus on this in Flanders. In the Flemish Parliament, we are prepared to apply the scheme which applies to every long-term sick worker after 30 days. We want to introduce this here too. We want to make up for the consensus that exists in Flanders, here too. However, to my surprise I am reading today in the media the outcome of informal consultations on this subject, before the subject is officially on the agenda. Can you confirm that, if I am not mistaken, this point can be discussed at the next meeting of the Administrative Committee on 6 October or next week's Bureau so that work can be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u9	At every meeting of the Conference of Presidents, we discussed the problem that the rules differ from those in Wallonia and Flanders in the light of the covid crisis here in the Brussels-Capital Region. That's definitely hard to understand. For the moment, we must respect the distance of one and a half metres and continue to wear our mask. On 1 October, as you said, Mrs Pas, there may be other measures. We will then analyse them again in the Conference of Presidents and take new decisions. The sooner we can return to normal working methods, the better for our work and for all of us. Regarding the rules specific to covid-19, it is obvious that we respect not only the law but also the decrees taken in the Region in which we sit. It is up to us to set an example as parliamentarians and as an assembly. As soon as we can ease the operation, we hope to return to plenary as soon as possible. So far, the service note before us was extremely cautious. We have followed this note in the Conference of Presidents. I am, of course, always ready to discuss again at the next sittings and in the light of the new decisions that will fall. In view of the presence of ministers, several of them are excused for this session due mainly to international activities. These ministers ensured that they were represented today to allow further discussion of the projects on the table. With regard to sick leave, Mrs Pas, I did receive your letter yesterday. What's informal the rest. We must therefore address this issue where competence is exercised, that is to say, the Bureau of this House. It will also be set up shortly or in the coming weeks with the full membership, following the resignation of Mrs Thibaut. This point will come back, but I will respond more specifically to your live mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u10	Madam President, we are politicians and we must set an example. The rules are quite strict in the Brussels-Capital Region. It's up to us to settle for that. We also hope to standardise our parliamentary work as quickly as possible. The Court's legal note is very clear. The note calls for social distancing, at one and a half metres, and asks Members of this House to wear a mask at all times. I note that this does not seem to apply to all Members today. Some members do not comply with the rules that have been imposed. There are not only colleagues in the Chamber, but also members of staff of the Chamber. Members of Parliament must set an example at all times and comply with the rules and therefore, for example, wear a mouth mask when necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u11	That is indeed the case! You said it, Mr. De Vriendt. I also said that earlier. I therefore invite all members of this assembly to wear the mask – all members present. If they do not wish to wear it, then let them leave the Chamber out of respect for colleagues and for the staff who accompany us!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u12	Mr Minister, yesterday it became known that you would have tested a number of ideas from the employment conference with the Land Ministers responsible for employment. One would be to provide unemployment benefits for workers who voluntarily resign. Since unemployment benefits in our country are not limited in time, this obviously opens the door to inactivity, while we just need to take measures to increase activity rates and employment rates. But after the corona crisis, our economy will only be able to revive and our social security will remain financially sustainable if we get more people to work and keep them to work. The government must therefore come up with measures to help create jobs and get jobseekers or those who are long-term disabled into the labour market. You would have put proposals on the table with colleagues in the Land. Of these there are certainly some interesting ideas. I am thinking of making better use of the long notice periods to prepare an employee for a job in a sector with more and better futures. It is also positive that you want more labour mobility between the regions. You also propose measures to encourage people to fill in a bottleneck profession. However, much more will be needed and we want to discuss it with you. What is the status of the proposals you have submitted to colleagues in the Länder? When is the government going to look into that? How will the various measures in the package lead to a higher level of activity and effectiveness? What measures are you also preparing to thoroughly reform our labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u13	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, unemployment is no choice. It is a help to those who lose their jobs. To grant access to unemployment to people who choose to resign voluntarily is, for us, nonsense. It seems to me, on the contrary, that this will help to find a workforce for the jobs that are in short supply. Do you really think that potential voluntary candidates for one of the jobs in need, in the construction sector or in Horeca, for example, are waiting to be entitled to an unemployment benefit to present themselves in these jobs while entrepreneurs, employers are waiting for them with open arms? Of course, we can work with you on improving the professional transition. You can always count on the Liberals to work on more mobility at work and flexibility but not just how. We are emerging from a long period of crisis, more than a year of telework. Employees struggle to return to their jobs, to pursue their pre-covid job. We see it on the ground. Today, companies are crying for staff. Minister, thank you for giving us some insight into these famous statements. Under what conditions do you envisage granting this unemployment benefit? How long? Do you already have an idea of the budgetary impact? What about perverse effects, possible drifts? I am thinking, for example, of an employee close to the pension, who, tired, thinks that he will resign and receive a few years of unemployment until the pension. Is this not a drift to be thought of? This would be part of the 25-measure package. Have they already been agreed upon and presented to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u14	I'm standing here today with a strong déjà vu feeling. How many times do I have to remind you that increasing the level of activity in our country to 80% cannot be achieved on the basis of measures that guide people towards unemployment and make it financially more attractive than working. For you, a person who is tired of his job and resigns himself must be able to receive unemployment benefit indefinitely from now on. I am much more optimistic in this respect and firmly believe that we can guide these workers to another, better, more suitable job. In fact, our labour market is begging for it. Not so long ago, you were a member of the Walloon government. I certainly have the impression that you still think you are a member of it. But here it is the Federal Parliament. The French-speaking parties may applaud the 325 proposals you put forward a few days ago in the context of the reform of our labour market, but the Flemings, they should not. This is even true of the Flemings in your government, who must have understood in the meantime what the purple-green government will lead to, namely a socio-economic debate without prior notice. The government is living proof that we need to split up our labour market policies as quickly as possible. I hold my heart for what will come, especially with the hot breath of the PTB and tomorrow also from BDVV in your neck. Why does the De Croo government think she can get more people to work by giving more people unemployment benefits? How do you intend to reconcile the opposite Walloon and Flemish labour market policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u15	Mr Minister, increasing the rate of employment to 80% by giving employees money to resign themselves, how many more false notes are on the score of the Vivaldi government? You should know for yourself that this country alone has 1,372 000 inactive people aged 25 to 65. You'll send more to the stamp room. You should know that in this country the rate of effectiveness is barely 70%. That is one of the lowest in Europe. Flanders still stands out by 75%. In Brussels it is 61 %. For non-EU migrants, to name but one, the rate of effectiveness is barely 52%. Basically, in order to reach 80 %, you need to fill in 667.000 new jobs. But you'd rather send them to the stamp room. You should know that barely half of the low-skilled people in this country are at work. That is the lowest figure in the European Union. Do you know that there are 90 bottleneck professions in this country already? Where are our socialists? Lidl drives around today with a van to find 350 Deborahs to work at the cash register. The catering industry is looking for 3,500 employees. In our Flemish education alone there are 2,373 vacancies. But you send them to "the cap," Mr. Secretary. In the meantime, you also know that we are the only country where unemployment benefits are unlimited in time. I hear Mr Bouchez from the MR on television saying that he lives in a region where, incidentally, Mr Di Rupo is the boss, where people dive for the third generation. What do you want, Minister? Do you want more stamps or more people to work? I'd like to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u16	Mr Anseeuw, be assured: I know where I am here today. I am of course in this House of Representatives of the Federal Parliament. I represent the federal government. This is also the reason why, as Federal Minister for Labour and the Economy, I, in parallel with the work carried out at this first annual employment conference, had a consultation with my regional counterparts on jobs in short supply. I have therefore also consulted with my fellow ministers in the regions, in particular Mrs Crevits, Mr Clerfayt, Mrs Morreale and Mrs Weykmans. We have exchanged a lot of ideas, proposals from the various camps, both from the federal government and the federated entities. These were constructive exchanges, exchanges which are continuing today between our various collaborators in order to try to draw up an action plan to combat the trades in need. At the same time, the government is currently working on a restart and transition plan. The Restart and Transition Plan covers five themes, including logically a Work chapter, entitled "An inclusive and participatory society with strong social cohesion." One of the objectives of this axis, in addition to the measures to combat poverty that are of particular interest to me, is to raise the employment rate as set out in our government agreement – a goal shared with the federated entities. In order to achieve this, I have put forward proposals which include the integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market. These are older workers, newly trained people, women and people with a migration background. There are also proposals to strengthen diversity and equality of opportunity and to combat all forms of discrimination, to encourage longer careers – which was one of the central objectives of the first Annual Employment Conference – to focus more on skills and opportunities for continuing training, to facilitate mobility and transfers on the labour market, to promote a better combination of private life and work life, or to reflect on the new and growing sectors. These proposals are a response to the problems in today's labour market. Our ambition is to get more people to work. However, we will not achieve this with caricatures and dogmatic views. Being brave now means exploring all avenues of thought without taboos to ensure a qualitative job for everyone in an efficient labour market with social peace. The social peace and competitiveness of our economy deserve better than political shortcuts. The proposal concerning the right to receive unemployment benefits in the event of resignation must be seen in this context: let us go beyond our taboos towards more efficiency! In the press, this proposal was presented as a measure to combat jobs in need. It was proposed as a measure to combat bottleneck professions, but that is not the case. That is why I regret the organized leaks of the past few days, not because I do not support my proposals, on the contrary, but because organized leaks make the work of the government more difficult. In addition, only part of the proposals are highlighted and the coherence of the reforms I propose is lost. My proposal, among many others, is to allow workers to reorient themselves, to leave a job that sometimes has adverse consequences for their well-being and health. The labour market impacts of occupational diseases and long-term diseases are known. I would remind you that today there are more long-term patients than job seekers in our country. That is, of course, one of the elements that must be addressed. We all know around us young people who have accepted a job quickly and who have decided on an orientation and who, today, are stuck and fast, alas. I can quote Astrid, the daughter of one of my collaborators, stuck two years in a job where she didn't flourish and who, now, is like a fish in the water while practicing the beautiful profession of teacher. We also know more experienced workers who have gone around their current jobs and who would like to be able to reorient themselves but who do not do so because, if they resign, they will be punished and will lose their income. I want these situations to be considered, not in a caricatural way, not in a simplistic manner, as some people have mentioned in the press, and of course under conditions. I know that some other parties have put forward proposals in this direction, which meet with little or no agreement with, indeed, conditions. This is a subject that we must be able to consider today. The measure is intended to facilitate transition and to make our labour market more dynamic. I will discuss the 25 measures with my government colleagues in the next few days and weeks. We all have the same objective, namely an efficacy rate of 80%. I am convinced that we can and will achieve this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u17	The questioners will be given one minute for a reply if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u18	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The proposal to give people who resign themselves an unemployment allowance that is unlimited in time is absolutely not a good idea for us. As I said, other measures will be needed. I am thinking, for example, of measures to ease night work in e-commerce, where there are opportunities for short-term workers, but for which our legislation is now too strict. I am also thinking of promoting the training or training of workers throughout their careers. If it depends on us, the thresholds for part-time work must also be lowered, precisely in order to facilitate the transition to work for some groups of opportunity. The reintegration of long-term ill workers needs to be further encouraged. For workers who are in a golden cage, who are extinct but who are afraid to give up their long seniority, we propose transitions just like you. In this way, the risk to them is limited (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u19	Madam President, I shall begin by addressing a few words to some colleagues. It is not because we are in the majority that the debate does not exist. It is important to share ideas before going straight to the goal. Oh, yes! You didn't understand everything. Indeed, we have a common objective: more mobility at work and more flexibility in a career. The objective is common. Perhaps there are indeed nuances on how to achieve this. And the nuance must also exist in politics. There is a difference between giving unconditional unemployment to someone who resigns and supporting someone who is looking for a transition and a career reorientation. It's all in the shade and that's what we need to work on. It is important to be attentive to the signals. Deputy Prime Minister, I invite you to pay attention to this. It is important not to lock up unemployment, but rather to free people in the workplace. I call on all employment ministers to work seriously for more work and above all to find a serious response to the jobs in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u20	Minister, the contradictions in this country, and especially within your government, are evident these days. You yourself refer to the Employment Conference, but you forget to mention that there was very little consensus there. You yourself refer to the leaks on your notes, but you may understand that they cannot come from the opposition. Your coalition partners now call you and your party "unmanageable." Those are firm words, and that also means that this government becomes the personification of your policy: it simply doesn't work. Flanders is the furthest in the reform of labour market policy, and that also means that they have the most to lose there because of your lethargy. That is why it is very cynical that once again it is the Flemings who will pay double and fat for a country that does not actually work anymore. I would like to make it clear to the Flemish coalition partners that they too have a great responsibility in this regard. For our Walloon colleagues I have the simple message:ceci n'est pas un pays. Friends, let's get a divorce.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u21	Mr. Secretary, you are actually making a caricature of it yourself. I hear you say that we are going to free the people who have a job from that job to send them to hell. I've never heard such a caricature. I read a marketing analysis by Professor Aernoudt, who is well-known in MR-middens. He wondered why we were seeing all these foolish measures, but he said it was very simple: the politicians ruled for their supporters. According to that marketing analysis, two out of three of your constituents are unemployed. At the MR, that's only one in three. That's why you're a little more indulgent. It's really incomprehensible. Since 1999 I have been talking about the unemployment trap, the big theme of the Open Vld, and 22 years later they do not know yet. There are remedies to solve it: limit unemployment in time, then there is no problem to activate, and increase the tax-free disk based on living wage. Then everyone gets to work. Work abounds. Dear friends, to you the challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, prices are rising. For electricity there is an increase of 100 %, for gas by 30 % and the prices of building materials have tripled. However, on 17 August, you signed a royal decree blocking all wage increases in Belgium at 0.4%. This is unacceptable in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. Yesterday, 5,000 employees of the Ghent branch of ArcelorMittal stopped, but no one here knows why. I'll tell you. On September 30, ArcelorMittal decided to spend EUR 100 million on dividends and on September 30, ArcelorMittal Gent's boss gave a gift to all his employees, because they had worked well during the corona crisis. Do you know what the present was? That present was a pack of fries, a pack of fries! The employees had to choose between a packet of fries and a hamburger. That is a misapprehension for the working population in Belgium. That is why people do not agree with the wage standard law, which was supported by the N-VA and the Flemish Interest. If it's about that wage standard, that's what they're all for. However, I do not agree with that. My question is very simple, Minister. I'm asking you to confirm a number. You say everywhere it's + 0,4 %. Actually, that's not true, because the health index does not contain gasoline and diesel. So the real wage increase is -0.7%. Minister, can you confirm to all workers that wages will not increase by 0.4%, but will decrease? The purchasing power will decline in the coming year, and it is not the PTB that says so, but the National Bank of Belgium. Cost: + 4.3%; index: 3.2%; 0.4% margin; 0.7% loss of salary. Can you confirm the number?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u23	Madam President, Minister, tomorrow, at the call of the socialist union, many workers will be on the streets of Brussels to demand a wage increase. They will march to denounce the 1996 law which, they say, crushes their wages. It is true that this 1996 law, as it was reformed by the Michel government, corsed the calculation of the wage margin. This calculation is not correct and the equation is not complete. It does not take into account the better productivity of workers in Belgium compared to neighbouring countries, nor does it take into account the aid granted to enterprises, for example reductions in social contributions. I too understand the grunt of the workers, but above all the feeling of injustice. How can we accept today that growth will resume and that wages will remain on the floor? How can we accept today that some companies or multinationals are distributing six billion dividends, while a wage margin of 0.4% is maintained? We're not going to rewrite the history of the negotiations here for the hundredth time. We all know that there is no majority in this Parliament to change this 1996 law, but we can act. And I know, minister, that you want to act. Therefore, my questions are simple: do you have any constructive leads for a resumption of consultation? Similarly, do you intend to exclude from the wage margin the increase in the minimum wage or to incorporate the reductions in social contributions as called for by the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u24	Madam President, honourable Member, Mr Hedebouw, I am of course particularly attentive to the evolution of the purchasing power of all the Belgians and especially the most fragile, of those who work as well as those who have no or no chance of working. Since the government took office, one of its first decisions has been to anticipate the increase in energy costs for the lowest households by extending the social rate to more than 500,000 additional families. To date, nearly one million households have benefited from the social tariff on electricity and gas. I don't think that's enough. With the cyclical rise in the prices of energy raw materials we are experiencing today, this is still insufficient. But as you know, the fight will be conducted within the framework of the budgetary conclave. Applications have been made to strengthen and extend the social tariff on electricity and gas, since these are essential goods. It is essential to be able to meet this need of society. This government has also made a series of advances to increase the lowest allowances and pensions. As of 1 January, a series of allowances – social integration income, the replacement allowance for persons with disabilities, the income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA) – will increase further. It is quite normal that everyone in this country, regardless of their wealth, luck, wealth or state of health, can lead a dignified life. With regard to the 1996 Act, it was this Parliament that voted on it and amended it. To change it, we need a majority in this Parliament. To date, I do not think this one is present. This does not mean that awareness, information and combat must be stopped. I hear that the trade union organisations – the FGTB, the CSC, the CGSLB – will also take action this Friday. This straitjacket no longer allows them to negotiate properly in sectors where wage increases can be obtained. It's not possible everywhere. We know that, perhaps even more today, after the coronavirus crisis, than before. The situation is still particularly difficult for some sectors or for some companies, but this is not the case everywhere. Margin is possible in some places. We must therefore be able to conduct this discussion. In the context of the social agreement, I have indeed made a series of proposals to the social partners to remove from the margin calculation a number of elements of remuneration, whether one-off elements or structural elements, in particular the increase in the minimum wage which, as you know, was one of our struggles. I would remind you, Mr Hedebouw, that under this social agreement, for the first time since 2008, with the social partners, we have obtained, by negotiating, an increase in this minimum wage. This increase will be historic since 2008. Of course, the fight is not over. We must continue to fight for fair wages, wages that take into account working conditions, which also take into account the contributing capacities of companies and employers. And also – I will not sweep this important element with a backhand – of the competitiveness of our companies compared to other countries. In conclusion, Madam President, I believe that the elections to be held in Germany this Sunday may have an important effect on a series of issues that are now on the table of the European institutions. I am thinking in particular of the Minimum Wage Directive, the elements relating to equal pay for men and women. I am still thinking of a whole series of other topics in the field of safety at work. These themes are on the table of the European institutions, and we will have to move the lines there too!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u25	Minister, you have answered everything except the question I asked you. It is the question of whether you agree with me that the wage standard is not 0.4% but -0.7%. You have to tell people. That is why the PTB supports tomorrow's FGTB event to blow up this wage straitjacket, namely that the increase in gasoline and diesel prices is not resumed in wage indexation. So you all know very well that wages are not going to rise but are going to decrease by 0.7%. That's what the National Bank says. We've got to blow up that carcan. Minister, I remind you that you signed the royal decree. Stop saying it was in 1996! I recall that the PS passed this law in 1996. But you're the one who signed the royal decree! The patronate is very aggressive. In the negotiations on the collective agreement on wholesale distribution, the patronate does not even want to give that 0.4%. Even that 0.4% won't get Deborah. That is the reality on the ground. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that wages be allowed to rise. The recovery is there and workers are entitled to wage increases. This is the fight we must fight!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u26	Minister, thank you. You know, Mr Hedebouw, I too, tomorrow, will be on the streets of Brussels with my colleagues. It's not just you who support the workers. The Socialist Party has always been at the side of the workers. Minister, last spring, thanks to you, we saw the rebirth of this social concertation, which has been on the carpet for several years. Significant progress has been made. As you said earlier, these include the increase in minimum wages. The workers who will demonstrate tomorrow do not ask for the moon, but they ask for dialogue and negotiation to be possible. They ask to have a voice in the chapter, since they are the ones who raise their sleeves and turn the machine. Of course, today we will support them as we have always done. We will also support each of your efforts to ensure lasting social peace in our country, which I think is in great need of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u27	Mr Minister, these are everyday images, both in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels: lines of citizens wishing to withdraw money at automated machines that are becoming increasingly rare. In January 2020, the country's four major banks announced their willingness to join forces to optimize their device networks by creating the operator Batopin, which expects more than 50% of their distributors to disappear at the end of 2024. The retention of a point of withdrawal within a radius of five kilometres is theoretically guaranteed for 95% of the population. As we know, the most vulnerable people in the digital world already feel abandoned as a result of the digitisation of the economy and the means of payment. The information provided in committee indicates that 70% of people do not make their payments electronically. For people in precarious situations, cash is very important, especially to manage their budget. It is above all simply a right! Therefore, Minister, do you confirm that if the four large banks no longer assume their societal role in this area, the federal state will intervene to ensure the right of access to cash for all? What about the announcement of a bpost agreement to outsource certain services? Since each municipality is expected to have a number of devices equivalent to at least one device per 1,500 inhabitants within a radius of five kilometres, how do you intend to set up a control device? Do you think that this five-kilometre radius is a sufficient standard in the countryside but also in the cities? Finally, to what extent do distributors guarantee the right to basic banking services for all consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u28	Minister, the proximity service tends to disappear dramatically as snow in the sun. The recent initiative of this consortium of banks via Batopin to replace the accelerated closing of windows with a mutualisation does not in any way meet this requirement of community service. It probably meets banks' profitability requirements very well, but is it your job to ensure that? The mechanism is being put in place with the support of the government in which, I would remind you, PS, MR and Ecolo are located. Moreover, it is not the result of chance that none of these three parties are calling on you today on the issue, since they are complicit in this arrangement. A mechanism that will reduce this community service, especially in the most rural provinces: Namur, Luxembourg, but everywhere else in the Kingdom. Imagine! We are told of a test phase of six devices in some provinces, where it is sometimes necessary to travel tens of kilometres to find a banking agency, with additional charges that will be charged when, for some banking institutions, the withdrawal is not carried out in a distributor of the chain, since Batopin is not assimilated to a distributor of the chain. But where are the commitments of proximity and quality of service that your colleagues (including Ms.Lalieux with the government) also validated last July with respect to people with disabilities who will find themselves well-married once again. It's time to pull yourself together and thwart this initiative that is not going in the right direction!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u29	People are worried. Their trusted bank office closes the doors and the last ATM disappears from their village. Compared to 2008, the number of bank offices has already fallen by more than half and the same trend is observed at ATMs. Internet banking and digital payments are on the rise. We welcome that, too, but not everyone is already on that digital highway. Cash money is and remains a legal means of payment and must therefore remain accessible and affordable to all. For CD&V, no one can fall out of the boat. The announcement of the four large banks yesterday to halve the number of ATMs by 2025 by more than half, struck as a bomb. We all know that the four major banks are working on a project to roll out bank-neutral ATMs. However, this is not enough for CD&V. Besides, it raises a lot of questions. These bank-neutral machines could only be used to collect money, and so, for example, do not make a transfer. In any case, therefore, it is a restriction on the provision of services. Moreover, we also ask ourselves serious questions about the name Bancontact, which would be given these new vending machines. It is therefore far from clear to the consumer that these bank-neutral ATMs are only of the four major banks. A customer from another bank will therefore have to pay costs to collect money from those bank-neutral vending machines. So it's misleading. Mr Vice-President, we share the concern of ordinary people. That is why we have already tabled a resolution early this year with various proposals to keep cash money affordable, accessible and close to everyone. How will you ensure that all consumers continue to have access to affordable, close banking services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u30	Madam President, Minister, the four large banks are coming up with a new plan for the distribution of ATMs. I have been following the dossier for some time in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and I always welcome a cooperation that leads to improvement and efficiency, but I too would like to express my concern. Banks also have a social function. There is no way that local traders and small self-employed people would have to travel many kilometres daily in order to securely deposit their cash money with their bank. This could lead to an absurd and potentially unsafe situation for many of them. They are neither courier nor banker. We must also think about individuals and, above all, the vulnerable in society. As a government, we welcome digitalisation and digital banking, but in addition to this efficiency, customer service needs to be monitored. Banks must not assume that everyone is involved in digital banking and paying for contactless and cashless, as has already been said here. This applies to the older population, but also to people who do not have permanent access to digital payments or even smartphones. Those people are worried, and I share their concerns. The abolition of offices must therefore not happen too quickly. Sufficient coverage must be ensured for the machines. I live in West Flanders and I feel the problems are already increasing there. The same problems are also being faced in Limburg and Wallonia. In addition to adequate coverage, ATMs, as has already been mentioned, need to offer more functionality. [[People have to be able to do more than just collect money.]] They need to be able to deposit money, make transfers and even record an appointment for a physical call. There must therefore be a basic banking service. Minister, how is this plan received by the government? Will you have a conversation with the major banks and the other stakeholders? Will you talk to them about the concerns and proposals for adjustments listed above? Are you also thinking of the entrepreneurs to cooperate, for example by placing vending machines in shops? How do you see the collaboration with bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u31	Mr Prévot, for your information, I am speaking on behalf of Groen and Ecolo. Ladies and gentlemen, if my mother has to pay an invoice, she will go to the bank to make the transfer. For this she has to pay one and a half euros each time and for each transfer separately. If my elderly aunt wants to pick up money from a vending machine, there's no vending machine. Then she must take the bus and drive them 30 minutes to collect money and 30 minutes to return home afterwards. Mr President, an important and vulnerable part of our population feels abandoned: older people, digitally less literate people, people without access to electronics or the Internet. ATMs disappear, bank offices disappear and what's left becomes more and more paying. What am I reading in the paper in the meantime? I quote: "In the last quarter, profit has almost doubled fivefold." The bank also announced that it would pay billions to its shareholders after September. Moreover, ING is not alone, all major banks have made huge profits during the first half of the year, despite the lockdown. Meanwhile, there are plans. You yourself, Minister, have concluded a charter with the banking sector for basic services. The banks themselves have drawn up a plan for the distribution and distribution of ATMs. Minister, both plans are not enough for us. The ATMs plan represents a significant drop in the number of vending machines and basic services are too low for too high a price. We must dare to ask more from the banks. Are you prepared to sit around the table again with the benches and demand more for that vulnerable group of residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Batopin project is extremely worrying. It cannot guarantee that every Belgian has easy access to a bank machine. That's problematic. I can't. You can be sure that my colleagues and I are following this issue very closely. Mr Prévot, therefore, there is no complicity on the part of the government. That's the opposite! I'll be back in a few moments. As you know, at the beginning of this month, Batopin submitted a new project following, in particular, my negative reaction to their first plan for dispersal of bank distributors. We had the opportunity to discuss it here in this House. Unfortunately, I must note that there have been only slight improvements between this project and the one presented to me last June. This is a first step, but it is an insufficient first step. I agree with you, Mr Vanbesien. It is essential to guarantee the accessibility of financial services to every citizen wherever he or she lives in Belgium and regardless of his or her mastery of digital and computer tools. This issue of distributors is particularly important for those who do not have these skills or who do not have the opportunity to manage their banking business online and also for those who cannot move easily. Unfortunately, it is the same people who regularly experience these two types of difficulties. Together with my colleagues Vincent Van Peteghem and Eva De Bleeker I will interview Batopin, Jofico and Febelfin. Such joint projects can reduce the cost of vending machines for banks, I am convinced, but they must not jeopardise the accessibility and quality of financial services. I think we have to repeat it here. Banks do have a duty to society, to their customers and therefore to all citizens. There is also a letter that is addressed to the governor of the National Bank. I am instructing him to analyse any increase in interbank rates. As you know, banks have to pay fees when their customers withdraw money from an ATM from another institution. The higher the fees, the more banks are encouraged to have an extensive network of ATMs. I would therefore like to analyse the advisability of regulating and increasing the interbank commission in order to curb the reduction in the number of distributors. It is, of course, a system that remains an incentive. It will reward banks with a large network of distributors and penalise other banks, but of course this increase should not be passed on to customers, and believe that I will see to it! I have therefore asked the National Bank to analyse this question in order to determine whether this solution is possible and what the consequences may be. I have also asked the National Bank to make alternative proposals. Like you, I have also just learned that some banking institutions – including KBC, not to mention – are considering charging cash withdrawals to distributors of the Batopin network, even though KBC is a member of this network. I am extremely shocked, and I immediately reacted to the KBC and Febelfin to denounce this fact and ask for explanations. This decision is in fact contrary to the Charter on Universal Banking and to the gentlemen's agreement concluded by the banks, which provides for 24 free withdrawals per year in the customer's bank or within its network. Mrs Dierick, I agree with you: this is not right! It is time for banks to respect both their commitments, laws and especially their customers. Believe that with my colleagues, Vincent Van Peteghem and Eva De Bleeker, we are going to make sure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am frustrated because I did not receive an answer about the agreement with bpost. If you want to interrupt me, go ahead!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u34	Madam President, if I may, I did not respond to Mr. From Smet and I apologize. I failed to tell you that in the management contract, the new version, as recently negotiated and approved by the government, i.e. early July if my memories are good, is the obligation for the post to guarantee the presence of a ticket distributor in the communes that do not have them. A point of withdrawal and deposit is included in this management contract. I apologise for failing to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. So you have a plan B. For the rest, I take note of your indignation and your commitment. We're counting on you. This story may seem anecdotal, but it's not at all. It is not a question of generation as some seem to believe. It is not necessarily a question of cities and countryside either. Five kilometers round in the middle of town to find a Bancontact, it's also very far away. It is ultimately a question of law and security. You have the right to use cash and you also have the right to be afraid of being hacked online when you perform certain operations. It is therefore really time that the banks, which were saved in 2008 thanks to the state, remember a little more the societal responsibility that is theirs in providing a basic banking service. Thank you for continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u36	[[Minister, I heard your answers.]] You say today that it's not okay, but you confess that you've already pointed the big finger without much success so far. Why do you think all of a sudden it'll be better? I hope, moreover, from a minister who comes from a rural and tourist area and who will certainly be the most penalized in the absence of distributors, that you will put your hands in the country, summon everyone and get results. It is not necessary to go and whine on television sets after seeing the increase in votes for the far left or the far right, even though this kind of decision contributes to the increased desertification of a number of rural areas. After the stations, the posts, the doctors who make themselves rare, the public transport also, we add a bed with the ticket distributors. Rural areas will be abandoned and urban areas will experience lines, lines, lines, which they do not want. It's time to get a jump and we're counting on you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u37	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am pleased that you stress that the Batopin project is not satisfactory for you and your colleagues, nor is it being renegotiated. The objective of these negotiations is very clear: cash money must remain accessible to all, including to less mobile people or people living in remote areas. It is unacceptable that there is no longer access to cash money. A bank machine per five kilometers and per municipality is the absolute minimum for CD&V. In addition, these machines must also meet a number of conditions: 24/24 availability, central location and easy access to public transport. We also need to be creative: cash in shop or cash back can, for example, be explored further with the entrepreneurs. Everyone has to assume their responsibilities here, but at first they have to take care of the banks. Finally, in addition to accessibility, affordability must of course also be safeguarded. The ordinary man in the street must not suffer from efficiency exercises by the banks. Affordable banking services in everyone's vicinity (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u38	Thank you for your answers. I am pleased that this will be reviewed. I hear a lot about consumers, but I also want to say that many local entrepreneurs, grocers, hairdressers, have to bring their money to the bank every day or bring it home. That remains an unsafe situation. If their company is located far from the bank, we may create other unsafe situations that we are overlooking now. So please review this completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As far as Batopin's current plan is concerned, this is our input to your further conversations: ATMs must be there where they are needed. That's between people. The rule to provide in one machine within a radius of 5 kilometers, is a rule that was taken over from the Netherlands. It may work in the Netherlands, but our spatial planning is completely different. So we have to deal with this in a different way. Today there is already a vending machine in most places within a radius of 5 kilometers, but still there are many residential cores that do not have one. Each core deserves a vending machine. That's the real way to divide and spread vending machines. The current plan is a plan to remove most of the vending machines. The losers are our inhabitants. Often it is a vulnerable and less mobile group. This is true in the smaller municipalities in Flanders and Wallonia, but also in certain districts of our major cities, from Antwerp over Brussels to Liège. And Namur, Mr. Prévot. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we must dare to ask more from our banks. They have an important social responsibility and they must accept that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u40	Mr Minister, mushrooms on the wall, fungi on the ceiling, not on the other side of the world, but here in our country. What is remarkable today is that there are dozens of questions here, but there is only one debate about the people of Wallonia. The people involved are still in the misery. It looks like the Wetstraat is in another country. We must not forget the suffering there. I'd be happy to show you. (The MP shows photos.) This is what the houses look like at the moment, with fungi on the wall. What is the plan to help the victims in concrete terms? The current government has dealt well with the health crisis, but it is now time to continue on this path and also tackle the climate crisis and help the victims there. Should you now visit the houses, you would find that the fungi are still hanging on the wall. This is not the case in Germany, nor is it the case in the Netherlands. People have survived a flood here, after which they have been living in life-threatening conditions for months now. We may wonder why they do not simply remove the fungi. Isn't that obvious? The answer is simple, simple and painful. They do not dare to do so because they fear that the insurer will not want to intervene. That is also the reality. Months later, many families still haven't seen an insurer, many families still live in unhealthy conditions and only in November, with the winter just outside the door. Those pictures say enough, don't they, and they show me that the houses are uninhabitable? Who here sees these pictures can't conclude that insurers shouldn't intervene? Those pictures are proof enough, aren't they? That seems pretty obvious to me. Insurers should be able to take action on the basis of these photographs rather than abandoning the victims. Mr Minister, will you, first of all, oblige insurers to do their work and work on the basis of photographs? Secondly, where is the urgency? I have already put many questions on the subject. I feel the urgency. I hope you feel them, too. When will the victims finally get an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u41	Madam President, Minister, the terrible floods that our country experienced last July were unprecedented. They have had dramatic consequences: forty swept lives, two hundred affected communes and thousands of victims. As my colleague has told you, from Knokke to Maaseik, from Andenne to Trooz, through my commune, Theux, yours, Minister Rochefort, or even Wetteren, as I speak to you, some Belgians have lost everything and can no longer sleep at home. Minister, the federal government has its share of responsibility today in the new phase, the reconstruction phase. Citizens' expectations are high. It is simply our political but also moral responsibility. In the face of this catastrophe, we must put in place a mechanism of exceptional solidarity, beyond linguistic boundaries, solidarity to the extent that we were able to observe on the ground the first days and weeks of the ensuing crisis. On the front line, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of insurance. A federal law currently limits the envelope (and scope) under which insurance organizations may intervene. There is only one observation on the ground: that of the disaster. There are still too few experts, sloppy assessments, underestimation of the damage caused, poor communication with the families affected, and very long and cumbersome procedures. What sense does it make today, minister, to ask a family that has lost everything on its fridge? And again, I'm only talking to you here about the victims who are insured. There are also those who have to choose between entering into an insurance contract or going with their children to the dentist. Minister, let us not leave these citizens at the edge of the road! Every disaster requires a strong response from the political world, on every level, on every floor of the house Belgium, does not displease some! The Walloon Region has assumed its responsibilities. It's our turn to respond to the emergency. Minister, what can you say to the victims who legitimately turn to us, to the federal government? What do you intend to implement? I hope you can give me satisfactory answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u42	Minister, the floods in July were unseen. They have caused a great deal of suffering, first and foremost a great deal of human suffering, but also a great deal of material and financial suffering. Many victims also have a lot of questions: what about my insurance; how much compensation do I get; when will I receive that compensation? They need that to rebuild their lives. Many victims have seen their possessions literally flow away. Others still have possessions, but they're in very bad shape. Some houses are uninhabitable. Other houses are still inhabited, but are in very bad shape. As a result, many victims live in very unhealthy and even miserable conditions. Mrs Depraetere showed pictures of a house, where mushrooms grow on the damp walls, but so there will be many. Then the insurance experts who determine the damage will come along. If people are lucky, they already have. This is not yet the case in many cases. Some victims have the means to request a counter-expertise. Testimonies show that in the counter-expertise one sometimes finds damage that amounts to three times as much as the first expertise. A counter-expertise soon costs 1,000 euros. Not everyone has the means to do that. That is just one aspect of the way insurers work, which makes the eyebrows frown. Mr Minister, I have a simple but clear question for you: do you accept your responsibility and ensure that the victims of the floods are compensated as quickly and as correctly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u43	I'm not surprised at the photo that was shown. These are pictures that might have been taken in my commune. As you know, she was particularly struck by this terrible incident of flooding. And it is still so today, given the continuing situation and the difficulty of being able to meet all the needs – which are extremely numerous. In the first few hours after the crisis, I have to tell you that the insurance companies have responded present, but being confronted with a situation never seen in our country. Despite their goodwill and commitment, they have been exceeded and still are. We must therefore keep an eye on this fact, especially with regard to those affected. As you mentioned, we must assume our responsibilities, regardless of the level of power. I am speaking here to our Minister of Finance, who can attest that, in the early hours following the floods, the federal government has taken on its responsibilities by concluding agreements in principle relating to the reduction of VAT for clean-up, deconstruction and reconstruction operations, as well as the deductibility of donations sent to the Regional Disaster Funds and other agencies. In other respects, temporary unemployment as far as I am concerned, we have made every effort to ensure that the existing schemes can benefit the victims of the floods. I could also talk about bridge law, carried by the Minister of Middle Classes and Independents. The same applies to certain allowances and the need to neutralize the status of cohabitant for persons who are accommodated in another home. In short, as a matter of urgency, we have taken on our responsibilities. As I did earlier in my speech, I must mention the relief services, both at the federal police and the civil protection and defence levels. Was this support sufficient or not? We will discuss this in the coming days and weeks. But, as I say here, the will of the federal government is to take its part in this effort, whether in Wallonia or Flanders. Of course, if this disaster had occurred more severely in Flanders, the position would have been the same and I would have been the first to defend it. As regards the compensation of insured persons, the law provides for a ceiling on individual intervention per insurer. Those ceilings have now been exceeded for the first time. In view of the scale of the disaster, the Regions and Assuralia have decided to share the financial effort. In August 2021 an agreement was reached between the Walloon Region and Assuralia. This will enable the persons concerned to be compensated for 100%, in accordance with the conditions of their insurance contract. The insurers double the individual legal ceilings to just over 590 million euros. In order to allow for full compensation, the intervention of the insurers will be supplemented by that of the Walloon Region, where the damage costs exceed the double ceiling. In other words, the Walloon Region will take over the difference between the intervention of insurers and the amounts necessary to pay 100% of the damage covered by simple fire-risk insurance, which would not have been the case by exceeding this ceiling. In the meantime, an agreement has been concluded between the Flemish Region and Assuralia, as well as between the Brussels-Capital Region and Assuralia. It was essential that those affected be properly assisted. In the field, there is still a great deal of difficulty in the relationship between affected persons and insurers or brokers, particularly due to the lack of availability of experts or counter-experts. This is really a problematic issue today. We must do everything we can to speed up this process and simplify procedures. This is an essential element because, when you see photos and images, certain situations do not necessarily require the presence of an expert or a counter-expert. More facilities must be made available to ensure that those affected are more quickly and more accurately compensated. I can assure you that I will take care of this as the minister responsible for the insurance side. I am also trying to inform the people concerned of their rights and obligations through the Federal Public Service (FPS) Economy and the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA), with which we started work on the revision of this law, in partnership with the National Bank. In this partnership, we must take account of what has happened and improve things. We must also ensure that insurance contracts are clearer, more legible, and that insured persons are well aware of the extent of their coverage and of their rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u44	Minister, you have been quite kind to the insurers. You say they were flooded, and that's true, of course, but everyone was flooded. The same applies to the volunteers, the municipal authorities, the governments, the aid workers; they were all flooded, yet they showed great solidarity in order to get on the ground as quickly as possible. We do not even ask the insurers for solidarity, we just ask them to do their job and to do what is necessary quickly. At the last meeting around 15 July, the floods had just happened. We debated it then, and we are doing it again two months later. We are in a warm, dry room but the victims are still confronted with fungi on the walls. All the measures listed are of course very good, but above all we need to act quickly. That is why I am pleased that you support the call to find ways to act more quickly, for example by using photos as evidence. That seems very important to me, so that the people concerned can live in a healthy renovated house again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u45	Minister, thank you. You have listed a series of measures taken during the first hours and days, but also more recently. I now note that the federal government is at the side of the victims, and I thank you for that. However, a major disaster needs to be addressed. As a result, the federal government still has its share of responsibility in the coming days and weeks. That is why we must collectively consider convening insurance agencies, in committee, in the House, to obtain undeveloped answers at this stage. At the same time, the federal government is facing another challenge. I said that the Region has taken its share of responsibility, but we still need responses to the crisis management. Indeed, the federal phase has generated many questions. Minister Verlinden has provided a number of information, but the time for analysis will be needed in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u46	Minister, this is an unprecedented disaster with unseen consequences and I sincerely hope for the unseen cooperation of the insurers. I'm counting on you to take responsibility for that. You are announcing many measures, such as the increase in ceilings, and that is very good, but these measures must also be applied in practice. It is up to the insurers to do so and to you to insist that they do so effectively. Time also plays a very important role, because it is ultimately about two very fundamental issues, namely health and a roof over the head. Many victims are living in appalling conditions today, so please accept your responsibility and ensure that the victims of the floods are compensated as correctly and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u47	Over the past few months, we've been pushed firmly on the facts with our noses. The international climate report contained warnings, there were cracks in houses after the drought, and then that terrible flood had to come in Limburg and Wallonia. Climate warming has never been more tangible in our society. During the health crisis, we have shown that this government can do two things at once. We must now take care of our victims in the climate crisis, and we must make policies in the climate crisis that will reduce the impact of disasters in the future. For that, it is important that we look each other in the eye. That is one of the reasons why Vooruit called for a special ministerial council on climate change. Above all, we need to think together how we can make climate policy forceful, fair, but also fair to people and logical. In Belgium, billions of euros are spent on subsidies to fossil fuel producers, at a time when energy bills are rising and houses are not becoming isolated in the Länder. That doesn't make any sense. For Forward, there are no taboos in this debate. For Forward, it is especially important to achieve good results. Will you support our plea for ending the billion-dollar support for fossil fuels? If we want to stop doing this tomorrow, we must start today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u48	Mr Verduyckt, thank you for your question. Colleagues, if we want to get everyone involved in the energy transition, which is indeed very important, then we must ensure that sustainable alternatives, renewable energy sources, become more interesting than polluting ones. That's what the coalition agreement says. When we talk about greener taxation, this also means systematically reducing subsidies to fossil fuels. That's only logical. It is also a commitment included in the National Energy and Climate Plan. I'm gonna work on this, too. I'm a man of my word. Of course, we must do so within a European framework. That is an important element. If we say tomorrow in Belgium that we will tax kerosene, we can be sure that all aircraft will probably be refueling abroad. In this way, no additional fees will be charged in any euro. I am indeed in favour of reducing these subsidies. As you yourself have said, I do not want us simply to transfer the invoice to the families. This also means that if we want to make fossil fuels more expensive, we will have to reduce the burden elsewhere. After all, what you're saying is correct. We've made an inventory of all the subsidies we give to fossil fuels. That is an amount of EUR 11 billion in direct grants. It's about large amounts of money. That is what we must do at the European level. I'm sure you're in favour of that, too. Of course, we have to deal with this in an honest way. That means two things to me. Firstly, we should not think that tomorrow we will be able to use the 11 billion we have identified in our budget. Secondly, there are a lot of social tariffs in the subsidies. Of course, we shouldn't just take it away. That is not the way we should go. We have to do this in a thoughtful way, with a social test. We must look at the purchasing power of our families and the competitiveness of our businesses. If we want to make a real success of the energy transition, then we need to take the time to make the adjustment possible and, of course, we need to ensure that everyone gets involved in that story. For this, we need to look at purchasing power and competitiveness. If we don't, that's the best way to make sure we can't make the energy transition happen. It is my conviction that this is how it should be done, and also that of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u49	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is indeed a very important debate. I also understand that there are many facets to it and that it is very difficult to discuss it here today at a few minutes' time. However, I would like to point out from your answer that the turning point is absolutely essential, even if there may be a need for agreement at European level. At the international UN summit yesterday, Boris Johnson said that, as far as climate policy is concerned, we absolutely need a turning point, and that, as far as global warming is concerned, we need to grow up. Well, adult policy means to me that a government or a government must weigh up its investments, the way subsidies are spent and the country is organized to see if they are in line with our fight against global warming. That's what needs to be done. Together with all the other government parties, I count on you, as a partner, because for Vooruit this is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u50	Minister, energy prices are going through the roof. The price of electricity increased by 50%, that of gas even by 100 %. Do you know what impact that has on our families? I'll tell you. For an average family that is 1,000 euros per year extra for electricity. 1,000 euros! For gas even 1,600 euro extra! For a lot of people, that's just not payable anymore. We have to be honest, life has become a lot more expensive over the past year. For many people it has even become quite a lot more expensive, especially with a government that has registered a maximum of 0.4% increase in its plan. I do not know if you remember, Minister, but I was here before you before the summer with my speech on the impact of corona unemployment. You're not looking at me, so it'll still be on your mind. Even now the same people are affected and they will have to pay a few hundred euros extra for their energy. Those people are worried, because they get emails from their energy supplier saying that the advances will be increased, otherwise they will not get out. They don't understand that. Do you understand? I understand. Mr. Secretary, how much VAT do you pay on champagne? That's 21 percent. Do you know how much the VAT on caviar is? 21 %. Do you know how much on electricity? Another winner, that is also 21 %. People simply do not understand that one has to pay as much VAT on a basic duty as on electricity as on luxury products. But don't worry, Minister, we have the solution again: lower VAT to 6%, which immediately saves EUR 300 on the invoice. That is why a very important question to you, Minister. Do you agree to reduce VAT to 6% as Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u51	Mr Colebunders, electricity is indeed not a luxury product. I am aware that the peaks in energy prices for many consumers mean a strong bite out of their monthly budget. However, a reduction in VAT in response to current prices is not a good idea. There are a number of reasons for this. A first reason is that such a general VAT reduction also gives a discount to those who use electricity to live more luxuriously. It's not a small discount, it's even a very large discount. Moreover, that would not give them any incentive to live more energy-efficiently. A second reason is that there is no guarantee that a VAT reduction will go entirely to the customers' energy bill. Indeed, it cannot be excluded that such a VAT reduction is used to increase profit margins. A third reason - and I think this is not an unimportant argument for you either - should also be borne in mind that a reduction in VAT on electricity will slow down the indexation of wages to lifespan. With all this in mind, together with the observation that a reduction in VAT also has an important impact on the budget, I would stress that we should not be lightly dealing with this. However, the government cannot ignore this evolution and must therefore examine in the short term concrete measures to keep the electricity bill affordable. We are working on this and we hope to be able to come to you quickly with measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u52	Mr Minister, tomorrow I will go to the demonstration that we are talking about, together with some other Members of this House. I'm allowed to address the unions on stage and I'm proud of it. But do I really have to tell them that they can only get a raise if life gets more expensive first? That is, in your opinion, the impact of a VAT reduction. Do you know what you're talking about, Minister? Do you know that? You say that such a reduction is not a fair tax, because its impact is not the same for everyone. Sorry, Minister, the 1% of consumers with an electric heated pool do not account for the remaining 99%. If you really want fair taxes, then I have a good solution in my drawer, namely the millionaire tax of the PVDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u53	Madam President, Minister, another assault! This assault on five police officers, three of whom are now in the hospital, took place during a banal roadside check. Everyone here and elsewhere could have seen the images of this policeman who convulsed on a sidewalk in a Brussels municipality. Minister, only a clear and prompt judicial decision will be the right answer to fight impunity and, above all, show support for our police officers. A year ago, I pleaded for a reform of a 2017 Prosecutors General's Circular to ensure a systematic judicial response against the acts of aggression of the holders of authority. You reacted. You responded with a directive, under which we cease to classify, to put under the carpet the acts of violence that caused disabilities of less than four months against our police officers. Mr Minister, it is not a rhetorical question that I am going to ask you, but what is the status of this directive a year later? Is it really the philosophy of this circular to return to his mother's home, even with a bracelet, the perpetrator of this attack? I have the deepest respect for our magistrates, for the decisions they make. But, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us put ourselves for a moment in the place of our policemen! Minister, some prosecutors hold thematic hearings on "violence against police officers". Is everything currently in place in accordance with the terms of the renewed circular? Have you ever conducted an evaluation of the renewed 2017 Prosecutors General Circular? In this case, with respect for the principles of separation of powers, what judicial follow-up can be expected against the perpetrator in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u54	Minister, I have to admit that I have lost count in the meantime. How many times do we have to stand here asking you questions about violence against the police? You do preach zero tolerance and you use punitive talk. You're referring to the new circular, which means that there's no longer any way to dismiss violence against the police when the perpetrator is known and the evidence is there. But I do not believe that in practice this will deter the perpetrators. The only thing that can deter them is that they are effectively punished quickly and decisively. Let us look at the incident of recent days. After barely one day, the unsub is at home, with an anklet and under electronic supervision, but the agents are at home, working incompetent. What kind of signal is that? You say the unsub will be punished. Indeed, the effective punishment will follow. But, Minister, when will that effective punishment follow? Usually it doesn't happen until a year later. That is the way it is done in practice. Then the punishment must also be carried out effectively. The public and the cops have to look at it with their eyes open. That doesn't restore their trust. A real lick-on-piece policy requires a real fast-track right. I have told you many times, Minister, we have a proposal on the subject. I invite you to take a look at this proposal, even if it comes from the opposition. You must not do it for the opposition, but you must do it for the policemen, for whom we have respect, and also for the people. With the present proposal on rapid justice, it would not have happened that this man was sent home under electronic supervision. That man would have been held and could have been tried at the latest after 12 days. Mr Minister, when will we finally have a real right to speed up the process so that there will be a quick ruling and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u55	Madam President, Minister Van Peteghem has just gone over his speaking time for more than half an hour, but you have not turned off the microphone. I have the impression that Mr Van Vaerenbergh has just been deprived of the floor after 11 seconds. I wish to protest against the use of these two measures and two weights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u56	Minister, once again we were faced with images of violence against policemen through social media. Once again, those who risk their lives every day for safety are the target of unsubstantiated aggression. This has to stop. If we want to build a society where security and security are central, then respect for the police must be absolutely paramount. You have already taken steps to ensure that the public prosecutors no longer dismiss such acts of violence. That is good, but I think we need to go a step further. If we want to pursue a real lick-on policy, we must ensure that the perpetrators are not only punished, but that those penalties are actually implemented. I therefore share the surprise of the police and trade unions that the man who attacked a patrol in Molenbeek on Monday and was apprehended by the investigating judge was allowed to go home, albeit with an ankle bracelet. He has to stay home seven days at seven and twenty-four hours at twenty-four, but I think that is a wrong signal to the policemen who were attacked. The man wounded no less than five cops, but may then, so to speak, sit at home watching TV with a bag of chips. The cops won't take that anymore. Who here in the hemisphere will blame these policemen? For the past year and a half, we all had to stay home a lot, pleasantly different, but you will agree with me that this does not feel like a very severe punishment. Our call is therefore clear. Put the safety of those who guard the safety of our citizens at the heart of the matter. Make this an absolute top priority and make sure people feel on the ground and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u57	Minister, this Monday in Molenbeek, five police officers were brutally assaulted by an individual who refused to undergo routine roadside checks. The images of this aggression, of extreme violence, have gone around the social networks and have rightly aroused the outrage of the citizens. These facts are totally unacceptable. There is no place in our society for violence, whatever it may be. But when this violence affects police officers in the performance of their duties, then it is our rule of law that is touched in the heart. Minister, you recalled last year that the government agreement provided zero tolerance for acts of violence against police officers, with a direct passage through the prison box; that was your terms. Indeed, you have taken initiatives in this direction and they have been recalled. But today, we learn that the aggressor in question is in pre-trial detention at home with an electronic bracelet. It is, of course, a court decision that I do not have to comment on, by virtue of the separation of powers, but I can only note the indignation that it has provoked in the ranks of our police officers. Minister, in this context, I would like to have your views on this matter and whether you intend to take any new initiatives to ensure that in the future our police officers are safer in the performance of their duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u58	Madam President, it does seem logical to me that my question, which was addressed rather to Minister Verlinden, was added to the current series of questions. Madam Minister, it is a sad beginning of the parliamentary year that I have to question you again about various acts of violence against the police. There is not only the violent crime in Molenbeek, the municipality that Jan Jambon would clean up. There we note three seriously injured and two slightly injured officers as a result of a violent crime. All of them were incompetent. In Ghent a policeman got a head-butt last Monday and last night the police and the fire department were lured to a container set on fire in the Brussels Lower-over-Heembeek in order to be able to smear them. I wish all police officers and aid workers a speedy recovery. The problem is not new. I checked it out. In a year and a half I have already asked you and your predecessor eight times here in plenary about violent crimes against the police. The answers remain the same. We need a zero tolerance. I've heard that before. However, Madam Minister, I have also noted two specific answers, which have remained with me. First of all, as Minister of Civil Affairs, when a police officer is injured by a violent crime and, second of all, I quote - "police and justice detect, prosecute and punish the perpetrators." As far as the latter is concerned, I have to say that the man with the jack from Molenbeek, although he is already known for various crimes of violence, is simply sent home with an ankle bracelet, when he should actually be locked up. It's like a policeman said last week. The unsub's home faster than the wounded police officer who was the victim. Madam Secretary, my questions are simple. Have you indeed taken a bourgeois party to all the acts of aggression cited? When do you translate your commitment to zero tolerance into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u59	The footage of the attack on the police officers in Molenbeek goes through marrow and bone. Seeing someone go at it in such a cowardly way makes the blood boil. I hope that the officers and security people involved will recover quickly from their injuries and the shock they have experienced. Our policemen go out on the streets day after day to ensure our safety and protect us and they deserve all our respect, no aggression. However, condemning this violence is easy; the people on the field have heard that for years. They don't expect words from us. They expect deeds from us. That is why, six weeks after its appointment, the government has taken immediate action with the zero tolerance regulation for any form of violence against police. The police unions have been asking that for years. Such facts should therefore never be dismissed. This means that there are systematically two prosecutions. Prior to this, the ranking was in 25% of cases due to other priorities. This also means that there is a systematic appearance. The suspect must be interrogated in person by the prosecutor or investigating judge within 48 hours. In other words, the prosecutor must give priority to expedited proceedings. Mr Pivin, on the occasion of this first anniversary, we will evaluate this circular. We are already seeing that it is being applied on the ground. As a reminder, during the Schaerbeek riots on 13 January, three people were sentenced to prison terms for these acts. This was not in the press, but it was. Look at the facts in Ghent. In Ghent, a person gave a head-butt to a police officer, and in that case, too, the defendant was arrested and interrogated and brought to justice on October 14th. That's in three weeks. That's quick law in practice. As far as your proposal, which I have already read, is concerned, you should know that a similar law, which was adopted by Parliament at the time, was destroyed by the Constitutional Court. If we want to do something else, we must ensure that it is done in the right way. The zero tolerance directive is there for all our country's public prosecutors, and I, as Minister of Justice, am counting on it to be consistently and always respected. However, zero tolerance does not mean that a minister can simply decree that tomorrow there will never again be violence in our society or against police officers. Anyone who claims or promises to do that will turn a blind eye to people. Nor does zero tolerance mean that we can simply set aside the principles of the rule of law. The suspect of the violence in Saint-Jans-Molenbeek was immediately arrested and interrogated. The parole board requested his arrest from the investigating judge, and the man has indeed been apprehended. He is, according to the law, not locked up in prison, but at his house, where he remains locked up around the clock pending trial. His trial and punishment are yet to come: he risks a prison sentence of four to ten years. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. No matter how reprehensible the facts are, a person can only be punished if he was convicted by the judge. But the problem of violence against the police cannot be solved only through zero tolerance or with harsher penalties. The legislator has already increased the maximum penalty for these acts to 20 years. Twenty years! This phenomenon is much more complex, deeper. That is why I have had lengthy discussions with the six heads of corps in Brussels. I asked them what the justice system could still do to combat this phenomenon. Take much faster measures against first offenders, for example. To punish them so that they do not degenerate into violent criminals or urban gangs who imagine that they can act with impunity. We will, colleagues. From December 1st of this year, we will carry out all the punishments, all the punishments. That law was passed here in Parliament. That is an important decision, because its introduction has been postponed over and over again. It was not an easy choice, of course, because the prisons in our country have been overcrowded for years. That is why we are now working day and night to provide additional places, new prisons, detention homes and transition homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u60	Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u61	I'm rounding up. For the government, it is clear that any case of violence against the police must be dealt with, prosecuted and punished. We are watching this every day, and I am counting on the strict application of the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u62	First of all, I wish a speedy recovery and good courage to all policemen and firefighters who were injured last week or today in Molenbeek and Ghent respectively Lower Over Heembeek. I was in contact with the mayor of Molenbeek and I heard that the policemen who were injured in her congregation are now on the right track. I also had contact with the mayor of Ghent. It goes without saying that we cannot tolerate violence, certainly not violence against members of the police or emergency services. They are committed to our safety, we must ensure their safety. In any case, I would also like to thank them for the cold-bloodedness they have shown. This is also evident from the videos and from their quick intervention to immediately apprehend the perpetrator in Molenbeek. Respect for the police and for the security services should be self-evident. We cannot help but regret the facts of the last week. Moreover, the facts teach us that there are still challenges, particularly in some cities. I have repeatedly stated here that we are absolutely committed to zero tolerance, that I am committed to that and that I am committed to doing everything I can to that end. At the same time, we must note that there is no ready-made solution to prevent the phenomenon at all times. I have not heard from you today any solutions to put an end to this phenomenon. However, we have already taken initiatives on the range of measures available in the fight against this. First, there is the recruitment of 1,600 policemen. Secondly, there is the use of bodycams. The government decided just before the summer recess to invest 6 million in the purchase of additional bodycams. Of course, we are also committed to monitoring and monitoring the victims. We are also counting on the Justice Department to apply the redirection letter strictly in this area. That was confirmed here today. We cannot accept such antisocial, violent behavior. In addition, we need to tackle the problem together. It is the work of local authorities, street corner workers, the Communities, the schools. Everyone must be able to feel safe. The street belongs to everyone, especially the police. There's no room for violent bombers, ammo-makers and city gangs. We need to protect the police so she can keep protecting us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u63	Thank you, Minister of Justice and Minister of the Interior, whom I had the pleasure of hearing on this subject. The events that took place this night on Avenue de Versailles, in Brussels – jets of paving stones on firefighters – show that many people in Belgium have not yet understood that the intervention services were untouchable. We don't touch the police. I really count on the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to deploy all possible means to enable the realization of what is described in the preamble to the circular. Each adjective has its own strength. A prompt, effective, dissuasive and uniform judicial response must be provided to these unacceptable facts. We owe it to the victims and to those who confront this violence in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We expect not only words but also deeds from you. The perpetrator and the facts are well known, so such a case should be dealt with in court within the week, including in a rule of law. This can be done in the Netherlands and in France, and I do not understand why this cannot be done here. You say that the perpetrator will appear before the court in Ghent on October 14th, but then we still talk in 14 days and then he still hasn't been punished. The case may be postponed, and the verdict may not follow for another year. I therefore call on you once again to install this right of urgency so that violence against the police and aid workers, who deserve all the respect, is quickly punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. No words, but actions, I fully agree with them, and I hope that the people in the field will see those actions. Violence must never be tolerated. The policeman or woman in the street must feel we're behind him or her. If you and your fellow minister need additional support for zero tolerance for violence against policemen and for a lick-on-piece policy, you can count on CD&V. I'm absolutely in favour of the separation of powers, but I get a hard feeling when I hear that the police officer wasn't even out of the hospital when the perpetrator was already at home with an ankle bracelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u66	Minister, Minister, thank you for your clarification. Unfortunately, this is not the first time I have come to this forum to report acts of violence against our police officers. I wish I didn't have to go back. Our police officers are a symbol of authority and our rule of law. You must make every effort to ensure that they are, in the future, better protected in the performance of their duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u67	Meanwhile, 12,000 violent crimes against police officers took place in 2020, which is 35 per day. In the meantime, the representative of the police union says that there are no-go zones in Brussels, set up by mayors, where there is no need to patrol, or very little to patrol. Something must be done. First of all, instead of no-go zones, the Flemish Interest is a strong supporter of more blue on the street. Then the political backup of our police is also important: arm the police and let them act hard when necessary. We will, of course, support the bill on the bodycams that you are about to propose. We've filed a bill ourselves for a long time. I will put it to the vote next week in the Committee on the Interior. I am therefore counting on a very large majority to adopt this proposal immediately and to bring it into force. It is clear that the police can count on the Flemish interest to restore order and justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my phone has been glowing in the last few weeks. Not by Joske Vermeulen from the Trammezandlei in Schoten, but by Jan with the cap, who is concerned about his energy bill and a peppered final billing in his mailbox got around with a large green bow from Vivaldi. Amounts like 900 euros, 1,100 euros or more are no exception for a typical family. Experts even talk about an extra 1,500 euros for gas and an extra 1,000 euros for electricity. Then I wonder what these people deserved it from? What have those people, who already pay almost the highest taxes in the whole world, earned a so-called left and social policy that only causes the emptiness of the wallet of the man and the woman in the street? What have these people deserved from throwing the last straw of credibility out of the coalition agreement? Meanwhile, you continue to live on the green cloud where you dream of importing energy and opening gas plants that will only increase the bill. In the meantime, I think it's clear to people that most green dreams are deception. Madam Minister, my questions are therefore very clear. Why don't you pursue a policy that reduces the energy bill instead of increasing it? How do you explain to Jan with the hat that by your policy he should simply impose 1,000 to 1,500 euros on his final account?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I read your government's statement: "The government will keep the energy bill under control." It was a few months ago, but it seems an eternity. Meanwhile, the price of gas has been multiplied by twelve, the price of electricity could follow the same path. This has a considerable impact on household bills. We are talking about several hundred euros or even a thousand euros per household for the coming year. It is unsustainable for the poorest, very difficult also for part of the middle class. The impact will also be considerable for industries. Britain is already announcing the closure of certain industries. Some are now announcing a possible gas crash like the extremely serious oil crisis we experienced in the 1970s, at the end of the 20th century. You are facing a major crisis that affects households, industries and our economy. It does not fall unexpectedly from heaven! Some whistleblowers had indicated weeks or even months ago that this would happen. But, Madam Minister, you didn't say anything. That was total silence! Neither households nor industries were able to organize themselves. You are only working on solutions. I hear various ideas from the government. As usual, everyone goes with their own little music! Minister, it is time to make decisions! How long have you known? Why didn't you say anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, energy prices are sky high. All over Europe, they're out of control. That, of course, goes through to the electricity and gas invoices of our families and companies. Look at the social rates: they add up to 11 % per quarter. At the other rates, tens of percent are added at once. While measures and decisions are being taken in Europe to do something about them, the federal government remains very vague. There is something about flexible excise duties, but without amounts and figures. Actually, it's even more punitive. After all, you have been ordered to reduce the federal extra costs on the invoice, but you have been failing for nine months. For nine months you have been putting your hands in the air and saying: 'Mr Wollants, I don't have time for that'. Is that what people are waiting for? It's only gonna get worse. We also know that there may even be an increase in the federal part of the energy bill. Up to EUR 200 million would possibly have to be collected extra from our families and businesses. Is that what you're getting sold today? That is why I have a number of questions for you, Madam Secretary. What measures do you intend to take to ensure that our families and businesses are protected from the huge price increase? Why haven't you been willingly doing anything for nine months to limit federal charges? Will you guarantee here and now that next year's federal policy will not bring any euro cents at the rates, or will you not do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u71	Madam President, Madam Minister, Europe is experiencing the same rise in gas and electricity prices. In Belgium, the average household bill increases by 500 euros for gas and 100 euros for electricity. In fact, as we can see, today in Belgium we are paying the cost of 20 years of delays, blockages, non-investment in the energy transition, which makes us dependent on 95% of fissile and fossil fuels, gas and uranium. Of course, when the prices of these energy sources increase, it is the Belgians who pay the bill. The first emergency is social. There is a need to help, to protect the people and families most in need: single-parent families, people with small pensions, self-employed people who cannot make ends meet. You have already succeeded, thanks to your action, thanks to this government, in doubling the number of households which, to date, benefit from a social floor rate. This is important because this targeted measure helps to protect one in five households in Belgium. Will you be able to extend this social measure in 2022? On the other hand, it must not be forgotten, the only source of energy whose price is constantly decreasing, is renewable, it is the wind, it is the sun. Investing in green energy, in renewable energy also means protecting ourselves and making us less vulnerable to rising world market prices that we obviously do not control in our small country. This is a principle dear to ecologists, it is the polluter pays principle. Those who consume 100% green electricity need to pay less and benefit from the energy transition. How will you ensure that they benefit from the benefits of renewable energy in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I stand before you, after I have returned from Ljubljana this morning, where normally the meeting of the Energy Ministers of Europe took place, being all 27 Energy Ministers together with the Commissioner responsible for Energy, Mrs Kadri Simson. Of course, rising energy prices were the conversation of the day, both on the official agenda and in the conversations in the corridors. The price increases for gas and electricity that we are seeing today are, after all, a European phenomenon and even more than a European phenomenon. They're a global phenomenon. They have to do with attracting economic post corona. Whether France, Italy, Denmark or Spain, we are seeing the price increases everywhere today. All ministers of all Member States, including the European Commission, are considering how best to deal with these increases. The solutions concern both the short and the long term. Mr Cogolati has referred to it, it is not true that this government remains silent or does nothing. It may be easy to refer to la petite musique du governement Vivaldi. Since February 2021, the target group of the social tariff has doubled. Mr Dallemagne, that was an action by this government in temporary non-suspecto. This means that the people who have low incomes today are talking about low-income workers, pensioners and widows who are protected from the price increases, thanks to an active government. Yesterday, the King Baudouin Foundation published a study showing that this is an effective and efficient measure. There are, of course, other measures by the government that play in the long term and are structural, because the best way to protect us from the price increases is by itself becoming more resilient by focusing on energy sources that only fall in prices, solar and wind energy, and by focusing on those things that are cheapest and energy efficiency. The kilowatt-hour that one does not consume is the cheapest. It was also a government decision to reduce the VAT rate for renovation. The government is not deaf to the concerns that exist. Other proposals are indeed being made, but I welcome this, as I always welcome all the proposals in the Energy Committee. This shows, above all, that there is broad support, that there is a great deal of concern and that we have been aligned to tackle energy policy in the front line and to take structural measures for that purpose. Some of you make the comparison with the core exit, but I would like to say to them that the price increases today have nothing to do with the core exit in 2025. However, by working on a long-term structural energy policy that targets the switch to 100% renewable energy, we can make ourselves more resilient, because what is good for nature is also good for the invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u73	Madam Secretary, apart from the familiar talk we are used to from you, you are not really reassuring the Fleming today. You will not be told that an average family must impose 1,000 to 1,500 euros for its final invoice. Why is energy still taxed as a luxury product? If Vivaldi has already succeeded in something, it is by sitting in the pockets of the ordinary Flame, which turns green when reading his energy bill because of your green malpractice. You are proving that you are no better than your colleagues from Agalev at the time. What we need, Madam Minister, is a realistic, reliable, independent and, above all, affordable energy policy, across all ideological dogmas. Stop the tampering and throw the Fleming a life buoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u74	Minister, given the seriousness of the situation – and I am weighing my words – I still expected much stronger and much better. You tell me, basically, "I did the job. The social rate, I extended it, the job is over." No, this is a first step, an interesting step. Nevertheless, the middle class, I have not heard of it. I haven't heard of industries. Mr. Cogolati sold us some wind. According to him, for any answer, more wind turbines must be made. Of course more wind turbines have to be made, but that's not what will change the gas and electricity bill in three months, in six months or in two years! You know very well, Mr. Cogolati, it's powder in the eyes! Then you tell us that nuclear power must be shut down! Again, we are told that we depend on the fossil and that we are going to reopen gas plants! Frankly, I think it is time to take on the importance of the issue, to make sure that it is not the opening of new gas plants instead of nuclear power plants that will allow us to be less dependent on fossil fuels, and to ensure that there is a real emergency plan for the middle classes and, of course, for the poorest and for the industries, to avoid the crash that everyone announces to us. I think we should have been thinking about this for a long time. In France, the Energy check is already in force, while in our country we are still talking about different solutions and we do not yet have a decision on the table. It is time to act, minister, and strong!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u75	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your presence. After all, I have not received any answers to my three questions. Of course, I understand why. After all, today you do not want to commit yourself to the fact that the federal extra costs will not increase. You do not want to say when you will do something about it, after nine months of standstill in that area. You don't know what wood arrows to make. All you're saying is that someday it's gonna get better, but it's gonna get a whole lot worse first. I would like to warn our citizens about that. That's where we're really on the wrong track. I will ask you that question again in committee, but I am afraid that, as today, I can only count on your presence there again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your action in the energy transition, but also in the fight against energy insecurity. I'd like to twist my neck to a naughty cliché, dear colleague Dallemagne. The current increase in costs has absolutely nothing to do with the exit of nuclear power. You're talking about this when six of the seven nuclear reactors are running today! You are talking about rising costs while the costs of electricity in France, a nuclear country, are higher than in Denmark, soon close to 100% renewable. It is therefore absolutely wrong to make people believe that the extension of two reactors would fall from the sky and cost them nothing at all! That's not true! Absolutely wrong! One billion six hundred thousand euros just for the upgrade. Forty billion euros remain to be paid for the dismantling and management of highly radioactive waste over three hundred thousand years. Madam Minister, today we need to invest these billions in the energy transition to really protect all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u77	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u78	The Ecolo-Groen Group proposes to replace Ms Cécile Thibaut, Vice-President, who has resigned, with Ms Séverine de Laveleye. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance proposes that Mrs Cécile Thibaut be replaced by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye as the outgoing Vice-President. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u79	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 September 2021, you have received an agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 September 2021, you have received an agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u80	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 July 2021, an appeal to candidates for the post of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 8 July 2021. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 July 2021, a call for candidates for the post of French-speaking judge was published at the Constitutional Court in the Belgian Official Journal of 8 July 2021. This vacancy is filled on the basis of Article 34, § 1, 1 of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court (Professional Legal Category). The vacancy is provided for under Article 34, § 1, 1°, of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court (category of professional lawyer). The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Emmanuelle Bribosia, regular professor at the ULB - Ms Anne Weyembergh, regular professor at the ULB The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Emmanuelle Bribosia, just Professor at ULB - Ms Anne Weyembergh, just Professor at the ULB Pursuant to article 32, first paragraph, of the above-mentioned special law, the Chamber must submit a double list. This list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. In accordance with Article 32 (1) of the abovementioned Special Law, the Chamber is required to propose a list of two candidates. This list shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, the curricula vitae of the two candidates were transmitted to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, the curriculum vitae of both candidates was delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 September 2021, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary session of 7 October 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 September 2021, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 7 October 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from now until Thursday 7 October 2021 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available to them in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. - The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 7 October 2021, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: Members may vote from now until Thursday 7 October 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session of Thursday 7 October 2021 at 4 p.m. in Room 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u81	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. The next item is the vote on the appointment of a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Nominations were announced during the plenary meeting on 10 June 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 10 June 2021. The Justice Commission extended the candidates on 29 June 2021. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings to the Conference of Presidents on 7 July 2021. On 29 June 2021, candidates were heard in the Justice Committee. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (2119/1). The document with the names of the candidates was delivered to you (2119/1). In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 8 and 15 July 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 9 July 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 8 and 15 July 2021, members were able to vote at 4 p.m. from Friday 9 July 2021 until today. The two youngest members present, Ben Segers and Nawal Farih, are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present, Ben Segers and Nawal Farih, are invited to be present at the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u82	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The next item is the vote on the appointment of a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Nominations were announced during the plenary meeting on 12 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 12 May 2021. The Justice Commission heard the candidates on 29 June and 6 July 2021. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings to the Conference of Presidents on 7 July 2021. On 29 June and 6 July 2021, candidates were heard in the Justice Commission. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 7 July 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (2120/1). The document with the names of the candidates was delivered to you (2120/1). In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 8 and 15 July 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 9 July 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 8 and 15 July 2021, members were able to vote at 4 p.m. from Friday 9 July 2021 until today. The two youngest members present, Ben Segers and Nawal Farih, are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. It will also take place now in Room 3. The two youngest members present, Ben Segers and Nawal Farih, are invited to be present at the recording of the votes. This will now also take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Aouasti, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u84	Madam President, my speech will be brief. We support this bill because we fully understand the importance of putting such a bill in place as a result of the dramatic events that our country has experienced. I just wanted to express concern about the local justice system, especially when, with the previous government, we experienced the rationalization and suppression of local justice buildings. I wanted to ensure that this bill will not be used for that purpose. I had expressed this concern in committee. The minister had assured that this legislation would never be used for these reasons. I take note of the minister's response. We will follow up on this issue, hoping that the guarantee of community justice will be maintained, especially when we know its importance. It must be accessible to all our citizens. I wanted to express this concern, while supporting the bill. I take note of the minister's response in committee. The latter tended to reassure at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u85	Mr Boukili, I can only confirm what I said in committee. Thanks for the support. I also thank you, Madam Chair, for accepting the urgency of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u87	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2185/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2185/4) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Piedboeuf, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u90	Madam President, Minister, there are few people today, less than I expected. That is a pity, because it is a very important subject. Madam Secretary, you must replace your colleague who is on a study trip. You weren't allowed to come? Or didn't you want to come with me? In fact, a beautiful delegation of no less than nine people from Mrs Kitir's cabinet went to visit a refugee camp with 80,000 refugees, who certainly deserve that attention. So there's obviously a new motto: I'm going to a refugee camp and I'm taking my social media assistant with me. I am sure that these people in Syria will be very well served and greatly helped by the fact that our Minister of Development took her social media assistant to that camp. Maybe that's to take some really nice footage and put it on the social media right away? I thought you were gonna do something about the social media, Madam Secretary. I thought the politicians were too much on social media. I don't understand, but maybe that's just me. I would like to comment on the visit of the Minister and her cabinet staff to Syria, who are undoubtedly doing a good job there. Members of Parliament who sit in the Conference of Presidents will remember the agreement that relevant ministers would be present in the discussion of their draft laws. No matter how noble the work is in Syria, the minister is not here. The government is therefore already not present in the first plenary session. This draft law must have been decided before 1 October, but it is not yet 1 October next week. We also raised the issue next week, all the more so because the text was already being drafted since December 2020. Our group chairman had asked whether the Minister's representative could answer enough questions. You are fully aware of the file, I presume.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u91	Mrs Depoorter, you are discussing the presence or absence of ministers here. Yesterday, the Conference of Presidents unanimously decided that the bill could be dealt with in the absence of Minister Kitir, who is indeed on a foreign mission and that Mrs Lalieux was perfectly briefed. I do not understand why you are critical of this, when your party agreed yesterday to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u92	Colleague, in my party we still have freedom of speech and we can go along with the majority. In the end, you have the majority in the Conference of Presidents. I am very sorry that the Minister is not here to discuss such a crucial point, the seventh increase in the African Development Bank's capital, as she said in the committee itself. However, the dossier has been under way since December 2020. At that time, the funds were entered in the budget, albeit without being presented to Parliament first, to be spent now in October 2021. As far as the bank itself is concerned, we have had an in-depth debate on this in committee. Your colleague has already explained to me that she is reliable and that we will invest EUR 38 million - 4.8 million per year, and that we will guarantee EUR 1.18 billion. That's a hell of a lot of money. To my question to what extent this effort can weigh on the bank's policy and decisions, the Minister replied that, even though we represent only 0.6% of the capital, we will have much more power in view of the fact that, together with France and Spain, we can boast 5% of the right to speak. So we get a 5% speaking right, for 4.8 million a year, while we all have a clear picture of the state of the country. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to demonstrate clearly in committee in the coming years what the impact of Belgium was and explain what decisions, which we advocated and supported 100%, were finally implemented, because we made the difference. But the future will tell. As far as the bank's reliability is concerned, I have done my homework and there is indeed an improvement in the backlog of unpaid loans. So we're on the right track, but things still have to be checked. At the same time, I have to note that the Minister has not ordered an independent investigation into the conclusion of the Foundation for Research on Multinational Enterprises (SOMO) in relation to complaints treatment, which is nevertheless very important in development cooperation. This concerns the lack of transparency, the possibility for actors to suffer disadvantages when lodging a complaint, the lack of any guarantee that a complaint will be effectively investigated and the lack of any pressure to find a solution to an organisation's complaint or the finding of an anomaly. That is not the guarantee for the people who need the projects and who depend on them. Madam Minister, we will not approve this draft because we do not have that guarantee and because you and Minister Kitir miss an opportunity here. You and Minister Kitir have missed an opportunity for control here, and I do not need to remind you of the numerous scandals in development cooperation - and transparency in the care of the weakest people, who are most in need of protection and for whom we are making funds and showing solidarity. That is why we will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u93	Mrs Depoorter, indeed, Mrs Kitir is in Jordan and Lebanon. After this period of covid-19, during which the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation were unable to move, it was important to show Belgium's action and to go to the actors on the ground. The government is working in this way. Minister Kitir took the trouble of giving me a series of answers. I guess she was expecting your argument. With regard to Belgium's presence in this African Development Bank, we have joined forces with the largest shareholders, including France, to influence decisions. This illustrates the minister's interest. With regard to the independent evaluation system that you are requesting, the Minister explained to you that the African Development Bank has been tracked by the Multilateral Organisation Performance Assessment Network (MOPAN). This one is independent. During this tracing, the institution was described as a robust and resilient organization. It has always benefited from the best ranking – 3A – due to the soundness of its balance sheet, the transparency of its financial management and its privileged position as a creditor. I wanted to share with you the minister's answers; the government is united and so it is also my role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you for your attempt to point this out again. It's a bit of what the report said, which we've already been able to read. We agree on that 5%. We invest EUR 4.8 million a year, which is not included in the budget. That is an important detail, because the large budget deficit will not weigh on it. The amount does not appear in the budget, but it does come up to Mr Kitir's conto, so that the growth path for better development cooperation is beautifully reflected. Madam Minister, 4.8 million and 5% weight, that is not really in balance. I think we can agree on that. You mentioned the independent investigation. That is right, and that is what the Minister said in committee. But I wasn't talking about that. That was - and you mentioned it very well - an investigation into the processes, procedures and soundness of the bank, but that has nothing to do with the complaints for those who find an anomaly, which indicates and then expect them to be handled correctly, that their complaint is being investigated, that something is being done about it, that pressure is being put on them to do something about it and that the project can be continued. That is the problem I wanted to point out and to which you clearly did not receive an answer in your briefing. I will ask Minister Kitir again in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u95	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u96	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2060/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2060/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Barbara Pas and Nawal Farih and MM. Patrick Prévot and Michel De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u99	Madam President, I do not know how we will proceed since one of the rapporteur members has left the proceedings. I have arranged with the members who have remained and who have wanted to work, in this case Mrs Farih and Mr. From Maegd. We've divided the work between us. If colleagues agree, I think it would be wiser to let Mrs Pas speak first. Then we will present the report in three parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u100	I am pleasantly surprised that the rapporteur wishes to address me this time. This was not the case at some conciliation meeting we had. The entire opposition was angry at the way things were going. I'm not the type to make me spit in the face, so we left work then. I will certainly have the remaining rapporteurs do their report from the committee. I will keep the committee's account in my intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u101	Madam President, in the preamble, I would be tempted to tell you that – and the factual report, which is much more serious, will come later – even if we have sometimes had differences of opinion with the other parties, all the other parties – the majority as opposed, with the exception of the Vlaams Belang – have wished to work and have continued to work to the end. The Vlaams Belang did indeed leave work when it was necessary to start work. As long as the cameras and the journalists were there and as long as we could audition the people, the Vlaams Belang was there but, from the first second when it was necessary to work in long working sessions with the services and the experts, where it was necessary to produce work, the Vlaams Belang withdrew. It is true that working is much more complicated than appearing in front of the cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u102	If that is a harbinger for the rest of your report, I can say that that is certainly not true, my dear colleague. I do not agree with your definition of 'no working' for all these dozens of hearings and even more meetings that we have been constructively involved in. In spite of everything, we have been very constructive and we have always cooperated. We have sent hundreds of questions to the various speakers in advance. In short, we have done everything that is expected of a Member of Parliament in that committee. However, at the time when each group was allowed to make recommendations whatever we did, we were ready, like all the opposition parties, to begin that discussion. However, we noted that there were no recommendations per group of the majority parties on the list, but Vivaldi recommendations. That's literally what it said. When, in a meeting by the majority parties, it was admitted that they had already joined together behind the back of the committee to apply a Vivaldi filter on the recommendations, and already admitted that they had already finished their recommendations on behalf of the majority, all opposition parties rightly had a lot of questions. The official argument given was that otherwise it was not workable. They had done it to relieve the workload and save time. Well, there is an agency for that in committee. During the last year, the Bureau and the rapporteurs could have been called together to make working arrangements, but that was not the case. Although we were willing to cooperate with the committee, we had all submitted our recommendations and suggestions, she was then suspended. For the first time in a whole year, there was a meeting of the Bureau, wasn't there, Mr President? For the first time in that year, there was a meeting with the President, the two Vice-Presidents and the four rapporteurs, where Mr Depooster and I repeated our criticism that we did not think it was a way of working that the majority parties had been in advance to make conclusions. Do you remember what your reaction was, colleague? I remember it very well. After the President's anointing words, who hoped that we could come forward with a report all supported, you said that 'you would not respond to what Mrs Pas said, because you are not talking to our party'. Then you started stabbing another parler. If a fellow rapporteur is not yet speaking to another fellow rapporteur, then I am not so naive as to believe that the recommendations and our constructive work are being taken seriously. We haven't even heard what we're saying yet. It's a waste of time, isn't it? From then on, I have spent my time much more usefully and, together with my colleague Dominiek Sneppe, I have produced my own report, without taboos. I have not translated the report into French, but I commend it to you anyway. There are many things in it that should have been included in the other report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u103	Madam President, I'm not going to epilogue any longer. Ms. Pas lacks a number of elements, but it is not surprising that she did not participate in all of the work. She rewrites the story in her own way and by quoting Ms Depoorter, it does not seem correct to me since Mrs Depoorter and her other colleagues from the N-VA have never left the table, have continued to work and have contributed greatly to this report, as have the other members of the committee and, in particular, the members of the opposition. Having said that, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the special committee to examine the management of the covid-19 epidemic by Belgium was set up in plenary on 25 June 2020. The bill passed that day set out the tasks of our committee. I will not go back in detail on all these points, but I will remind you of the broad lines for a correct report. [[This included an examination of the measures taken since the AH1N1 influenza with regard to the anticipation and management of a large-scale health crisis; information from international authorities and other countries which Belgium had at its disposal between the appearance of covid-19 in December 2019 in China and the first confirmed cases of contamination in our country at the beginning of March 2020 and the follow-up to that information; decisions and measures taken at the federal level between the announcement in December 2019 of the appearance of covid-19 in Wuhan in China and the first confirmed cases in Belgium since March 2020, including measures taken by other European countries; crisis planning and management concerning, inter alia, the management of strategic stocks of medical equipment and medicines, coordination and implementation of measures to combat the epidemic, measures taken for hospitals as well as consultation with actors in this framework; the effects of the crisis in the field of non-virus-related care, the effects of the crisis in the field of mental health care; the examination of the chain of communication between the federal authorities and the national authorities of the crisis, the non-repatriation aspects of the crisis.); the essential role of the National Crisis Centre in the tasks assigned to it; the way in which Belgium has reported health data to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, particularly with regard to other European countries, and has made these data accessible to the public;]] As envisaged in these missions, we come today to present to you the main findings, the main conclusions and recommendations that we have been able to draw, after more than a year of work and fifty committee meetings. We started our work on July 2, 2020 and Robby De Caluwé was appointed President, assisted by two Vice-Presidents, namely Ms. H annoyance and Ms. Depoorter. Four rapporteurs were also appointed. Mrs Pas, as I said, decided not to continue the work along the way. It is therefore with my colleagues Nawal Farih and Michel Demaegd that I have the honour to present this report to you. On the basis of the tasks entrusted, the Special Commission decided to base its work on five themes. The first was the preparation for a possible large-scale health crisis. We were in the pre-corona. The second was the operation, supervision and financing of the care sector and the health care staff. Secondly, the topic of international harmonisation and the communication aspect, the purchase, production and distribution of protective equipment, tests and medicines, as well as the tracing and, finally, intrabelgian coordination of the approach to communication and containment. The members of the committee decided to be assisted by a team of experts in its work, namely by Ms Leïla Belkhir, an infectiousologist at UCL, Mr Yves Coppieters, epidemiologist at the ULB, Mr Hugo Marynissen, expert in crisis management at the University of Antwerp, replacing Mrs Floor Lams who had started work with us but who subsequently joined the police station a few weeks after the beginning of the special committee, and finally, Mr Marc Sabbe, an emergency doctor at the KULeuven. These experts began their work by preparing a preparatory report on the Commission's missions. In order to complete their work and in preparation for the hearings, the members of the special commission decided to request a series of documents from the political leaders of the previous federal government led by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès. These documents concerned in particular the messages and information received from international bodies since autumn 2019, containing information and warnings on the covid-19, the list and organization chart of the various bodies involved as well as the bodies that have participated in crisis management, as well as the information and reports of these bodies and institutions since the appearance of the coronavirus in Wuhan and various other documents useful for the planning of hearings. You will also find a more detailed list in the written report and its appendices. All the information was transmitted and made available to the members and experts of the Special Commission in the following way: depending on their degree of confidentiality, there were first and foremost the ultra-confidential documents, the "eyes only", which were accessible digitally on unconnected PCs installed in the Commission's secretariat. Confidential documents were made available to experts and members of the extranet commission in a file entitled "confidential". Finally, there were the other documents which were made available to the experts and members of the committee on the extranet of the special commission. Due to the measures in force against covid-19 in the House of Representatives, all information was made available to the members of the commission in digital format. Prior to the hearings, an important note was also requested from the Chamber's Legal Service concerning the division of powers in the field of public health and the management of a health crisis between the different levels of Belgian power. This note is also annexed to the report. Having taken note of the information made available to it and the introductory notes presented by Mrs Belkhir and Mr Lams and Mr Coppieters in September 2020, the Special Committee drew up a list of persons and bodies to be heard. During these hearings, new proposals for bodies and persons to be heard were made either by experts or by members of the special commission. In practical terms, the committee has organised 46 hearings, which you can consult in the written report. Prior to these hearings, the members of the panel were systematically invited to forward their questions to the stakeholders in order to provide the best possible framework for the discussions and the points of attention. The written replies to these questions are also annexed to the same report. The full minutes of the hearings, the presentations and the written information made available by the bodies and persons consulted are also annexed to this report. Finally, various written contributions have also supported our work, including those of WHO, ECDC and the European Commission, which have not been able to respond favourably to our request for a hearing. During its work, the Special Commission was able to obtain almost all the information it had requested. However, I shall briefly mention the difficulties we have encountered in obtaining information on two elements. The first concerned European contracts for the purchase of vaccines. Following requests to AFMPS and the Minister of Public Health, Ms De Block, to obtain this information, AFMPS stated in August 2020 that "this information was classified as non-communicable and that documents were therefore covered by a confidentiality obligation". As a result, these documents were not transmitted. Some members of the committee therefore felt that a parliamentary committee of inquiry should be set up, at least for this part of the work. This proposal could not, however, receive a majority in the special committee. On 12 February 2021, however, the special committee decided to ask the President of the House to join the initiative of the Parliament of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Parliament of Slovakia to call on the European Commission to grant members of the covid-19 special committees of the national parliaments access to the information room, the famous data room, on vaccine contracts, set up by the European Commission and intended for members of the European Parliament. With the consent of the Conference of Presidents, the President of the Chamber – you yourself, Madam President – sent a letter to the President of the European Commission, Ms Ursula von der Leyen. In a letter dated 24 August 2021, Ms von der Leyen replied that, for various reasons, such as confidentiality clauses, the protection of sensitive commercial and financial information and the guarantee of the European Union's negotiating position, the contracts could not be disclosed in full by the European Commission but that the pharmaceutical companies had agreed to publish a redacted version of these contracts on the European Commission's website. The second element, which posed some difficulties in obtaining this information, was the figures for hospital hospitalizations and covid-19-related mortality per hospital. Again, with regard to sensitive data that required adequate communication, a public hearing was held at the request of Sciensano with experts from this institution. During the hearing on 15 June 2021, Dr. Koen Blot, in his presentation, indicated the reasons why Sciensano could not provide the committee members with figures on hospitalisation and mortality related to covid-19 in a scientifically and socially responsible manner. Dr. Sophie Quelin stated that Sciensano, on the other hand, was prepared, on the basis of specific research questions transmitted by members, to assist the Special Committee in making recommendations to improve health care during a pandemic. Several members of the committee expressed dissatisfaction with the hearing, and an additional hearing on the same subject was held on 28 June 2021 with Mr Marcel Van der Auwera, Head of the Medical and Psychosocial Emergency Service of the Public Health FPS. The minutes of these hearings are also contained in the annexes to the report. Finally, with a view to drafting his report and his recommendations, and as envisaged in the missions of our committee, we also held an interparliamentary exchange of views between the covid-19 committees on 27 April 2021. The recommendations made by the various assemblies were presented and followed by an exchange of views among the various members. Madam President, I will now let my colleagues explain how the discussions on the final report and the recommendations took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will guide you through the observations made by the members of the special committee and the experts in the report, and through their interpretation, which gave direction to the recommendations. These were drawn up after intensive debates, with contributions from the various groups. First of all, it is appropriate for this Parliament, like the members of the special committee, to express its sympathy, support and recognition for all those affected by this crisis. The many victims and their families deserve recognition for the suffering and loss they have experienced. Our many caregivers and hospitals had to rise above themselves through this crisis in order to protect society from the evil that the virus did. This often happened in less obvious circumstances, which physically and mentally pushed them to the limit, far beyond the limit of what is portable. During the hearings, of course, specific attention was paid to the challenges and circumstances faced by the healthcare staff, the care sector and hospitals. It was clear to the committee that the conditions in which they had to perform their tasks absolutely must be improved in order to guarantee quality health care in the event of a subsequent pandemic or large-scale health crisis. The special committee also realised after the many hearings that the measures to limit the damage caused by the virus had an indirect impact on society. I am thinking of the quality of life and the mental health of many people. Neither the socio-economic dimension of the COVID-19 pandemic, nor the analysis of the many policies and measures taken by the various regions in our country to support businesses and families were part of the mission of the special committee. It is therefore not addressed in the recommendations either. Nevertheless, a multidisciplinary approach to crisis management is fundamental for the special committee. During the 46 hearings and in the many documents made available to the committee, the chronological course of the covid pandemic in Belgium was recorded throughout the period under consideration. This unique overview is annexed to the report in Annex 5. It covers more than 220 pages. On the same basis, the four experts prepared their report which summarises and analyses the main findings in five clusters. The final version of that report dates from 25 June 2021 and was added in Annex 1. It covers 86 pages. These findings and analyses strongly inspired the special committee at its final meeting on 13 July. I would therefore like to refer to the annexes to the present report and to the reports of the hearings if we wish to take into account the various findings in detail. However, allow me to highlight some of them and put them in perspective. It will clarify the recommendations proposed by the committee report and some of the choices made. The first is that no one could estimate the scale or duration of the crisis that has come to us. The scientific knowledge and insights about the virus and the possible treatments were built up experimentally, with traps and standing up. The policy and approach evolved, among other things, through the new scientific insights and the evolutions of the virus. This manifested itself, for example, in the fact that at the beginning of the pandemic wearing a mouth mask was not recommended for the general population. I stress that wearing a mouth mask was not recommended by the World Health Organization or by the experts who assisted the government with advice and deed. Over time, however, it became an obligation, in circumstances where people could not keep sufficient distance. This has also proved its added value. It was decided to build an extensive stock of mouth masks and other medical devices and to maintain them structurally. For example, measures aimed at a better distribution of the COVID-19 patients were also developed. The importance of ventilation was underlined in the prevention and control measures and the consultation organised in the Consultation Committee was prepared by the Corona Commissioner. It is now important for the committee to anchor the lessons in a better framework and organisation of our crisis management. A first recommendation that follows is that it was clear that the existing institutions and procedures were not suitable for long-term crises such as a pandemic. The resilience and strength of public health are of the utmost importance in this respect as a first-line defence. The crisis put infectious disease back in the foreground. Our country must therefore opt for strong preventive health care, reducing the health gap and a strong health system, so that it is better armed against such pandemics. One of its elements is undoubtedly greater cooperation at European level in order to be better equipped both scientifically and organizationally. Another element is that the crisis management of pandemics of all stakeholders should be well prepared and organised, so that there can be a quick switch if necessary. To this end, a pandemic plan should also be drawn up and updated on a permanent basis. Unfortunately, the 2006 influenza plan was not updated following the new division of powers following the sixth state reform. The structures were not prepared for the long-term and broad societal impact the covid pandemic would have. A multidisciplinary preparation in a permanently updated and practiced pandemic plan is therefore imperative. Hence the proposal to instruct the current Corona Commissioner, in consultation with the National Crisis Centre and the Risk Management Group, to draw up this generic plan as soon as possible. The same pragmatic approach inspired the Special Commission COOVID-19 for its proposals on crisis management structures. Instead of proposing new institutions that would end up in an institutional no-man's-land between federal and sub-state authorities, with an unclear statute, the committee chose to strengthen and break open existing structures so that the relevant Länder could be integrated into them. All this happens under the guidance of a corona commissioner. The pooling of knowledge and experience that is present and needs to be preserved, in order to keep the specialised departments concerned up to date, is the only good way. The detection and first detection of a potential threat will always be carried out by authorities that are constantly working on the subject and have the necessary expertise to correctly assess the threat. To this end, however, the competent departments should strengthen their crisis cells. A mutual representation in each other's crisis bodies will enable the National Crisis Centre, which has crisis management techniques and channels, to continuously monitor and update, where necessary, the crisis and risk management tools and plans of the specialised departments. The National Crisis Centre must intensify its cooperation with the Länder so that they are constantly informed. The National Crisis Centre will have to be ready at the start of the federal phase, to put its experience in crisis management at the service of the Consultation Committee and the appointed Commissioner. She or he is then surrounded by the agencies that until then managed the crisis and built up expertise on the threat. It is either the corona Commissioner or the Commissioner responsible for pandemics who is responsible for drawing up the coherent policy proposals. In view of the different powers and levels of policy, a coherent approach is needed. In this way, the committee hopes to respond in a democratic and correct manner to the demand for unity of command, which emerged in many hearings and debates. Secondly, the Committee also shares the analysis of Richard Horton, the editor-in-chief of The Lancet, who stated in his testimony that at the start of the pandemic in Western society there was a sense of inviolability regarding a health crisis. We all assumed that our good health care and our highly developed hospitals could manage a pandemic. Unfortunately, for many years we had no direct experience with infectious diseases, as they were no longer at the forefront of our health challenges. The special committee believes that this too may have caused too much self-confidence in our society and delayed the response to the news that has reached us from Asia. It follows from this basic determination that we need to strengthen our sense horns on the world stage and develop a performant earlywarning system so that our crisis management measures can be launched and deployed in good time. It is not only a strengthened presence in global multilateral private or university consultative bodies, but also, in particular, enhanced European cooperation and active action by Europe in the field of cross-border health policy and in particular in the fight against pandemics will be essential in the future. A third observation is the fact that the whole of Europe and the US were struggling with this virus. This should not be used as an excuse for the special committee, our country is able to do better. It follows from this third observation that the major impact of this health crisis on society must encourage us all to achieve the necessary improvements in the most diverse areas and disciplines. The legitimate demand of citizens is that the basic structures of consultation, coordination and decision-making are ready and can be quickly activated in order to obtain efficient coordinated action by the public authorities. As you know, the committee has taken note of the analyses and recommendations made by the parliaments of the Länder. It is now up to the various governments to translate these recommendations into policy and legally binding texts as soon as possible by common agreement. The committee's last recommendation is that by 15 March 2022 at the latest, this Parliament would like to hear the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Health about the state of play regarding the implementation of the recommendations. Our citizens expect us to make all the necessary efforts to prevent a potential repetition of these serious consequences of a health crisis. Let us not disappoint them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to my colleagues Mrs Farih and Mr Prévot for this presentation of the report, which I shall continue. At the end of the many hearings that we have conducted and that have been presented to you, we have come to what is at the heart of our report, the recommendations. It was essential to be as comprehensive as possible, not to avoid subjects and not to overdo the subject. The hearings allowed us to conclude that our country can and should better prepare for such crises. As we are developing in the text, this preparation will obviously have to be respectful of the decision-making and democratic process within our society and take into account the complex institutional structure of our country. The recommendations are intended to strike an appropriate balance between the objective of ensuring clarity and achieving concrete results and the desire to develop measures that are sufficiently generic to be applicable to the most diverse crises and pandemics. In the end, a total of 135 recommendations were adopted by the Special Committee, and we are about to discuss them here. For greater efficiency and clarity, we have divided these recommendations into five main chapters: a more robust health system as a basis, good preparation on the basis of a constantly updated pandemic and stock plan, crisis management during the federal phase of any pandemic or crisis, strengthening the European dimension and, finally, the means to implement and monitor the proposals. The first chapter therefore concerns the robustness of the health system. The many professional experts involved in this field, whom we have met on numerous occasions, were unanimous in this regard. A more robust system is an imperative basis for dealing with this type of crisis. Several aspects of this system are discussed with many recommendations for each of them. I am not going to list these recommendations here, you have read them, but let us go back to the main themes discussed. More attention should be paid to health promotion and disease prevention. Hospitals need to be reorganized in view of the need to limit the administrative burden on our healthcare providers. Their ties to rest and care homes must be strengthened and sustained. All this must be done by continuing the reform of hospital financing. Mental health care must, for its part, find its place as an inherent component of comprehensive health care. The pandemic plan must take into account the impact of the pandemic on the mental and psychosocial well-being of the population, particularly children and young people, as well as the psychological aspects of the pandemic. Within this framework, an inter-federal mental health plan could be implemented. Our testing and tracing infrastructure must also be efficient. Faults have occurred at times. It is therefore essential to remedy this. It is clear that increasing attention needs to be paid to our health care professionals. Our support for this sector must be total. Efforts should also be made to digitize and process medical data. Finally, the effectiveness of public authorities needs to be reviewed. The second chapter deals with the preparation needed to deal with this type of health crisis. There is no doubt about the need to quickly put in place – before the end of 2022 – a new pandemic plan. This has been repeated sufficiently during the hearings. This plan will be prepared by the Public Health FPS, supported by the National Crisis Centre (NCCN) and in consultation with the federated entities, the various health actors present in the field – including the first line – and after consultation with provincial governors. The plan will then have to be updated every three years. However, a plan is not enough. Planning is also important. A thorough preliminary analysis, coordination with all stakeholders, planning, analysis and possible reinforcement of the resistance of the Federal Public Services, a clear objective, as well as some basic principles and their testing allow all those involved to be on the same wavelength and know how to act. We therefore need to think about a federal approach to crisis that is based on a few clear principles rather than fixed structures – resilience rather than responsiveness. An early warning system is recommended. Apart from times of crisis, care must be taken to ensure that all persons able to detect alarm signals know where they can call to adequately anticipate an emergency or even to prevent a crisis. The exit from the crisis must also be anticipated, particularly with regard to communication in order to attract public support. We have also focused on strategic reserves. This is of paramount importance. They must be sufficient at any time. The provision, security and dynamic management of rotating stocks, protective equipment, medical equipment and medicines at a national level must be sustained, taking into account the diversity of potential health risks. The third chapter deals with the federal phase of any crisis or pandemic. The role of the National Crisis Centre is central and needs to be reviewed. Its missions and skills need to be expanded to become a multidisciplinary and interdepartmental centre. Its collaboration with federated entities, including regional centres, needs to be strengthened. The role and status of experts should also be clarified. A legal framework must be established with rights and obligations, in which these experts can carry out their advisory tasks in a manner that respects their integrity and independence, including through their communication in the media. Overall, public administrations need to move towards a culture of risk prevention and crisis management. The Public Health FPS must be sufficiently integrated into this process. It is also important to assess each crisis after the start of the federal phase through teams of independent researchers so that reports can be published debriefing the implementation of this phase. The Higher Institute of Emergency Planning will also need to be reorganized to become a centre of expertise within the National Crisis Centre. As soon as a new crisis arises, the Concerted Committee will have to appoint a commissioner within 24 hours of the start of the federal phase, if the circumstances so require. He will be responsible for final opinions to be submitted to the inter-federal political decision-making body. With regard to the complexity of our state structures, the distribution and organisation of health-related competences within the state will have to be assessed on the basis of a broad democratic debate involving, inter alia, citizens, civil society, academic circles and health actors. Finally, as far as communication is concerned during the crisis period, it must be made coherent. This requires adequate exchange of information, joint upstream planning and preparation. Communication must be uniform, clear and transparent, both internally and externally. The fourth chapter concerns the European dimension, which also needs to be strengthened. Our country must advocate for the creation of a digital toolbox based on data collection throughout the European Union in order to improve and accelerate the fight against the pandemic, but also for the creation of a structure that can quickly become a health union. We must also urge European partner countries and OECD countries to assess and update the functioning and competence of the World Health Organization so that it can convene Member States immediately in the face of such health crises. Belgium must do its utmost to be part of European cooperation initiatives on public health and the fight against crises, but also to get closer to the different European health networks. Health policy at EU level will need to be rethought so that it is more integrated, more harmonised between the European Union and its various Member States. Many recommendations detail in concrete terms how Belgium should play this role within the European Union. This is very important when we remember the failures that occurred at this level at the heart of the crisis. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the last important chapter is that of the means necessary for the implementation of the proposals and the follow-up to be granted. The Government is entrusted with the task of examining the question of the human and material budgetary means necessary for this implementation. Specific lessons will have to be learned once the current crisis is behind us. The Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Public Health are asked to provide the House of Representatives with an update on the implementation of our recommendations by March 15, 2022 and annually thereafter until the approval of the pandemic plan. Once the Pandemic Plan has been approved, the Ministers of each new government with the above-mentioned matters in their responsibilities will transmit to the House, no later than one and a half years after the new government takes office, a special report on the level of preparation of the country, updates of the Pandemic Plan, the functioning and organization of the NCCN, the functioning and organization of the Public Health FPS in this regard and on the European and international dimensions of crisis management. I shall now say a word about the end of the committee's work, with the result of the votes. All the introductory considerations and recommendations were adopted in the special committee by eleven votes, those of the Vivaldi majority, against one vote, that of the PVDA-PTB. The three members of the N-VA abstained. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have presented to you here very succinctly the main points of the recommendations that we adopted in our special committee. The work has been long and intense. Of course, we owe it to all those in the population who suffered the sometimes violent impacts of this pandemic. Through these 135 recommendations, we hope that our country will be better armed tomorrow, if such a situation is to happen again. We are not trying to judge, to blame, to criticize anyone. We simply see how the crisis was managed, with the information we had at the time, and we draw conclusions from it. For this work, I would like to thank, among my colleagues, those who have participated actively and constructively. I would also like to thank the services of Parliament which have been of great help and support throughout this year of work. Finally, I would not like to conclude my speech without expressing our sympathy, support and gratitude to all the citizens who have been affected by this crisis. We say that in our report. Of course, it could not be otherwise. So I will conclude by reading this passage, one of the most important to me: "The many victims and their loved ones deserve to be recognized for their suffering and the losses they have suffered. Many health care providers and hospitals have had to overcome this crisis in order to best protect society from the ravages caused by the virus. They have often had to do so in unobvious circumstances, which have pushed them physically and mentally into their last cuts, far beyond the limit of the bearable."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u106	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to endorse the statements of support which other colleagues have already addressed to all those affected by the pandemic, those who have worked to combat the pandemic and those who have been affected by the deeper crisis caused by the pandemic. Our society has been hit very hard. That is why the special committee should take its task very seriously. We have been appointed as representatives of the people to investigate how the covid crisis has been dealt with. We were on the committee to make recommendations based on identified shortcomings, which should ensure that next time we do not make the same mistakes. We have had a lot of hearings, more than 40, and about 50 meetings. So it will not be the time we have spent in the special committee, but I think that we, as a special committee, should take a good look at our own minds. During the last discussion of the recommendations, I also mentioned missed opportunities and misplaced caution. It was not our job to seek mitigating circumstances or turn around when mistakes had to be made. It is not about pointing the finger at individuals, for which many were apparently afraid, but about investigating the functioning of a government, government members, government officials and public services. Those authorities had to guarantee the safety of our citizens. It is only democratic, it is our parliamentary task and our parliamentary duty to check how that happened. There should be no taboos. I have been particularly disturbed by the introductory remarks to the recommendations. Cases are cited that are not appropriate, such as that the use of mouth masks is a matter of moving insight and that at the beginning we did not know that they were important. I wonder what such a passage is supposed to do in the introductory text, because even if they were recommended, they were not available. Or, at the end of the day, that the government did not do so badly, I read literally in the text that is now on the table: it is written that I quote - 'the country has dropped, that it could set it right and learned from it during the various stages of the pandemic'. In other words, we may have made mistakes, but we corrected them. We have to do it. You've got to have the guts. With such excess mortality rates, with dramas in so many families, by Covid-19 itself or by the consequences of the lockdown. But according to the authors of the text, the country has, in the course of the crisis, corrected its mistakes. Then what was that special committee supposed to be for? It may just seem like a sentence in an introductory text, but it does contribute to the creation of the atmosphere: we haven't done so badly. However, all the facts contradict that. Our group has always tried constructively to contribute to the recommendations for the special committee and there are certainly many good recommendations among them. At the same time, we must note that several pertinent proposals have not survived the vivaldizeef, and that is a bad thing, not because they were our recommendations, but because we believe they would have made a real difference. Let me give you a few examples. A review of the public services involved in the crisis seems to be the beginning of everything. But no, the majority doesn't think that's necessary; we won't split the poor people who worked so hard in the crisis, will we? But perhaps they liked to put their grievances or their suggestions for improvement on the table? That is an essential point. And even though the pharmaceutical agency, to which the reporter referred earlier, provocatively stated that we could only obtain certain documents if we transformed the committee into a committee of inquiry, there was no incentive for colleagues from the majority to make that switch. As far as the hospital figures, one of my stickhorses, but important, are concerned, we still do not have a precise picture of the situation in the different hospitals. We don't know why there were many more deaths in one hospital than in the other. On the one hand, the majority is knocking on their chests and saying that they have not done so badly. On the other hand, it seems that one does not have the courage to analyse it in depth. That's not right. I'm gonna take a hint of the veil about our voting behavior later. We are not satisfied with the recommendations on the table. It is certainly not the recommendations that the citizens have been waiting for. We will therefore retable our recommendations that have not been achieved in the form of a motion. I am thinking, for example, of recommendations that promote transparency, which is sometimes forgotten. Administrative documents shall be public. A citizen has a right to that. That's a fundamental right. It's so easy to ignore. There are also recommendations on access to and processing of data, on better and systematic involvement of the population and Parliament in a crisis. There is still a lot of room for improvement. There are also a number of linguistic adaptations. There are a lot of things in the text. I do not think that the citizen is waiting for such a conditional attitude either. I would like to quote one more passage: "This could, among other things, examine the role of the Medical Component of Defence and how much it can be strengthened." It is, in other words, an option. There's something we can do. That could be about DOD, but it could be about something else. Or we might as well not do it. The Medical Component of Defence is also not mentioned in the text. This is particularly weak, while the public is just expecting a text bursting with firm recommendations. We have also included a number of new recommendations in the motion, including on how many hospitals themselves analysed their mortality rates and covid figures, on the organisation of a wide-ranging academic debate after the federal phase and their feedback in Parliament. I think it is very important that we bring together all our expertise, which is indeed there, and not just the expertise of the experts involved in the crisis. It has to be much wider than that. It is also about the addition of a real organisation chart, which shows who is competent in a medical crisis, because believe it or not, that is still not crystal clear with the recommendations before us, while the mess of powers and communication has been a major delaying factor throughout the crisis. So that point has still not been resolved, and that is very painful. We also advocate a thorough investigation into the spread of infections in our population, as there are indications that the virus has reached our country along many routes. That is also an essential element of lessons learned, if we want to do it better next time. Finally, I think it is only logical that we should decide together that the work of the special committee has not been completed at the moment and that, in accordance with the statute of the committee, we should immediately turn them into a committee of inquiry. This proposal can also be found in our motion. For us, the sitting should not be the end of the day, and we are counting on your support. In order to ensure that our recommendations remain alive, we have also put them in a resolution proposal that we will certainly put back on the table. After all, the biggest mistake we can make now is that we are not going to the bone and that we are failing to learn lessons. It is our crushing responsibility to change things, and I hope everyone realizes that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u107	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I will speak on both my behalf and on behalf of my colleague Barbara Creemers, who is still not fully reinstated from the Covid and who has not been able to join us. I also give him the message of taking as much time as necessary for his recovery so that we can find her in shape with all the vivacity we know and need so much. A year ago, during the numerous hearings, we were confronted with poignant testimonies, in particular about the dramatic events experienced at the beginning of the crisis, during the ensuing confinement, during the successive waves. We really want to express once again our gratitude and gratitude to all those people who were at work and who, for many of them, are still on the bridge. We would also like to thank the services of the House and the experts who made this work possible. I would like to stress the valuable collaboration with Mrs Offeciers. Some days ago I wondered what we could have done without her. We also thank all those who brought their testimonies, their expertise, who took their time to answer the many questions. Then I would like to thank the colleagues in the committee who have been able to put their expertise and expertise at the service of this report by exceeding their political interests alone. The report's recommendations may not be perfect. They may not go as far as everyone would have liked, but they are the result of a democratic process. This report reflects what we could best achieve from the discussions that took place, and it is a report that proposes realistic and achievable recommendations because there is an urgent need to implement them. The two years we have lived have been a succession of climate, environmental and health disasters: heat waves, covid, PFOS, floods. The list is already far too long. Risk prevention and management should not be blocked for skill allocation issues. This is a matter of culture and cooperation. We must integrate the culture of risk prevention and management through cooperation between levels of power and with Europe, for example. When we hear that enrolment in nursing schools in the French Community has decreased by 30% this year, it is not just a statistic, it is a potential public health problem. The first point we learned very quickly in this committee is that we were poorly prepared for this pandemic. We overestimated the capacity of our health care to cope with the pandemic. As the crisis unfolded, we realized that having a theoretical capacity of 2,000 ICU beds meant nothing in operational terms if we did not have the teams of emergency workers and nurses qualified around these beds. The first emergency is therefore to intervene in the valorisation of nurses, but also in the valorisation of front-line medicine. In any crisis, they are always the first and last on the bridge. This recognition must be accompanied by valorisation, so that it is really necessary to invest massively today. We would also like to highlight a recommendation in the report concerning the concept of "One World, One Health", which is at the heart of the environmental project, but which has also been advocated for more than 50 years by the World Health Organization (WHO). Hans Kluge, WHO's Regional Director for Europe, recently recalled this: we have only one health, we have only one planet. Human health, animal health and environmental quality are closely linked. For example, Mr Kluge called on governments to undertake far-reaching reforms of investment programmes, in which health would be at the heart of all policies. Investing in prevention is first of all about investing in health personnel, as I said earlier. It is investing in health prevention and promotion plans to prevent diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and obesity, which are the main factors of co-morbidity and most often affect the most vulnerable people. It is also investing in biomonitoring plans and reducing social inequalities. Indeed, in any crisis, it is the first affected and, in many cases, those who do not. In Belgium, studies exist. The Federal Public Service (FPS) Public Health has just published a study entitled "Impact of climate change on the health system in Belgium". This report is fully in line with the One Health vision, to better understand and strengthen the links between human health, animal health, plant health and the environment. It contains some 60 very concrete policy recommendations. If we add today the recommendations of the Covid-19 committee that we are going to vote for, we will have a very complete dashboard of the measures to be taken. In short, it is time to move from reports to action, and it is also in this sense that all members of the commission have requested, in terms of follow-up, that the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Public Health communicate to the House by 15 March 2022 at the latest, and then each year until the approval of the Pandemic Plan, an update on the implementation of these recommendations. As you may have noticed, I have used the word "investing" seven times in my speech, which is not insignificant: I also wanted to send a clear message for the current budget work. In conclusion, I would like to make an appeal: the crisis of the covid has profoundly upset society. People are angry. People are scared. People are divided. People don't understand anymore. We need to hear these messages but, above all, we need to listen to these people without prejudice and avoiding rational responses too fast. Let us not let extremes exploit this anger! As Democrats, we must restore confidence. Let's get out of Parliament, let's listen to people on the ground, in civil society, in federations, in continuing education movements, in schools, which are all places of democracy! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u108	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis of the Covid-19 is an unprecedented global health crisis, a crisis that has affected us in our hearts, bodies and minds. First of all, I would like to have a sincere thought for all those who have lost their lives because of this virus, for those who have been victims of it or who are still suffering the consequences of it on a daily basis, for people with long-term co-vid, a subject on which we have worked extensively in the Health Committee. These people must, of course, remain at the heart of our priorities by continuing this work carried out in the Health Committee. This crisis has plunged all of us into the unknown. Its management, even though it has been the subject of loopholes that will have to be corrected in the future, has also shown us a capacity for resilience and solidarity, particularly on the part of citizens, young people and many actors on the ground. For the positive person I am, this resilience and solidarity that may have arisen are important lessons to remember. One task that was entrusted to us at the time of the establishment of this special commission was to make recommendations. Obviously recommendations for the future, while the crisis was not yet behind us. Recommendations to improve the prevention, coordination and management of pandemics in our country but also at European level. Recommendations, some of which may help to improve the management and coordination of any type of crisis. I am, of course, thinking of the terrible floods that we experienced last July. I have just discussed this with my colleague Yngvild Ingels. Since the establishment of this special commission in June 2020, a little over a year ago today, we have had the opportunity to hear from women and men who have been in the front line and struggling with the management of this crisis, scientific experts and actors on the ground. I am thinking, for example, of the representatives of the governors, the police, but also of the health workers, doctors, representatives of the hospital sector, etc. I do not want to mention any more fear of forgetting this, as they have obviously been essential in managing this crisis and, in any case, in keeping our people healthy at arm's length. From the beginning of our work, we had, each and every one of us, certain convictions about what had or had not worked during the crisis. All these people heard over the weeks and months, and I would like to thank them for the time they have dedicated to us at times, have sometimes shaken these certainties. They have sometimes enabled us to understand more precisely the elements that have been a problem and should certainly be improved in the future. They were also able to highlight what was to be greeted, which was to be sustained, which worked or improved over the months and knowledge. Here, too, I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the incredible and sometimes superhuman work that has been done in recent months by all those involved in managing this crisis, sometimes with insufficient resources, as was pointed out during the hearings, and also by all the sectors and public services that have enabled our society to continue to function. I also have a special thought for the caregivers and all those around them, for the work, the commitment and the courage they have shown during these many months, which they continue to show today. While some colleagues have sometimes given in to the temptation of the accuser's finger, many have tried to do constructive work to answer a very simple question: what should be put in place in the future to best deal with a new pandemic? I must also pay tribute to the work done by our experts. We have already discussed this during the presentation of the report. These experts have made suggestions and proposals which have led us to make most of the recommendations in this report. Of course, I will not go back to the 135 recommendations contained in the report in detail, but I will go back to a few elements that I believe are essential, as well as to my colleagues and to my party as a whole. The first key point for our group is of course, over and over again, the strengthening and funding of our health system, with a global vision combining physical and mental health. This has been stressed very often, through the organization of our health system, the promotion of health and of course prevention. In this context, it will of course be necessary to work far beyond our borders, by advocating, in particular at European level, for a more united, united and active Europe. I was talking earlier about solidarity and resilience. At European level, these values must also be translated, particularly in the fight against pandemics. A series of recommendations are devoted to this. Another fundamental element for us was the support and improvement of the working conditions of all caregivers, according to their needs and realities. Efforts to improve those conditions should in any case be pursued with concrete effects on the ground. I am thinking here of hospital staff, nurses, health workers, but also of the entire first line of care or the medical assistants. It is also through cooperation between all the actors involved in health, this indispensable chain, that we can develop this necessary integrated, accessible and comprehensive approach to health. Hospitals, of which we have spoken extensively, have led an incredible fight against the virus. From now on, we will have to guarantee them multi-year funding to ensure that everyone has access to care, both geographically and financially. Reform of this funding will have to be continued to make it simpler and more transparent in order to ensure the sustainability and quality of patient care. It is essential that the locoregional hospital networks set up intensify their collaboration with nursing and nursing homes, but also with institutions for people with disabilities and with front-line healthcare providers. The crisis has shown and demonstrated the complementarity, continuity and quality of care. Many concrete increases have been formulated on paper. You will find them in the recommendations of this report. In the future, special attention should also be paid to the postponement of non-emergency care. We have seen that these postponements have sometimes had disastrous consequences for patients. Continuity of care must be guaranteed, even in times of pandemic and crisis. However, hospitals have sometimes faced very difficult choices. For this reason, we supported the idea of conducting analyses of referrals and their evolution according to the different waves and of transmitting guidelines to hospitals and health care providers. In the context of crisis management, the hearings highlighted three major problems. First, we have often talked about our country's lack of preparedness, particularly because of the absence of an updated pandemic plan. Secondly, very briefly, we have faced the lack of strategic stocks, including personal protective equipment, for these same health care providers – with this famous destruction of the stock a few months before the pandemic. She had made a lot of talk about her and had animated all of our hearings. Thirdly, this lack of unity of communication and command has also been a major problem. On these three points, I sincerely and honestly believe that our report provides concrete and precise answers. Thus, we expect that by the end of 2022, the Public Health FPS supported by the National Crisis Centre (NCCN) will have to draw up a national emergency plan for pandemics in consultation with the federated entities and the various health and field actors. This plan will have to be the subject of exercises (essential element) and be regularly updated and adapted to any unexpected situation. It will take into account all the dimensions of public health, public order and social and economic dimensions, as well as the impact on the mental and psychological health of the population. We've seen how important this is. Today's broad guidelines will make it possible to establish the "tester-tracer-isoler" strategy, which has been heard on a number of occasions. The record woman must be Mrs. Fonck who repeated it like a mantra. She was right, and today we know more than ever how essential this "tester-tracer-isoler" strategy is in the management of a pandemic, a strategy that we will need to be able to reactivate quickly and strengthen if necessary. The Pandemic Plan will need to focus on encouraging public support and involvement in measures to promote acceptance, involvement and motivation and avoid exacerbation of mental health problems. Aside from this, an early warning system will have to allow the detection of alarm signals in order to better anticipate emergency situations and prevent potential future crises. Secondly, it is essential to maintain at national level the availability, security and dynamic management of rotating strategic stocks, protective equipment, as well as medical equipment and medicines. In order not to repeat the mistakes of the past, the commission's mission, clear objective criteria for distribution will have to be specified in the event of a shortage or when they reach expiry while ensuring efficient communication about the intended distributions to the care providers. Finally, with regard to this famous unit of command and communication, my group and I consider it essential that a thorough reflection, in a broad democratic debate, be carried out, in particular on the distribution of health skills in our country. However, it was not possible for us to decree, within the strict framework of our work in any case, that only one person should prepare, take and implement the decisions necessary to manage a health crisis as we know it. It will be necessary to evolve in this structure with those who love it or do not like it. But given the institutional structure of our country, the Concerted Committee has appeared to us to be the appropriate body to take decisions in times of crisis. A Commissioner will support him by submitting coherent proposals, which take into account the impact of the measures on society. It will also be responsible for ensuring the coherence, effectiveness and centralization of decision-making and communication. This is indeed the objective desired by the speakers whom we have heard and who have, for many, repeatedly stressed the important role played by the current Commissioner Corona. The people we interviewed reminded us of the extent to which there had been one before and one after Commissioner Corona. When a federal crisis phase is initiated or triggered, the Commissioner may be supported by the Crisis Centre, which itself will have to be reformed to expand its powers and missions to become a multidisciplinary and interdepartmental centre. Its collaboration with the federated entities will need to be strengthened. In general, the recommendations made do not intend to create new instruments or institutions. It's very important to us. The recommendations seek to raise awareness and strengthen existing structures and expertise. Intensifying our approach "risk prevention and crisis management" is essential in this famous organizational culture of public administrations, notably through regular consultation, the organisation of training and this, in order to be able to have experienced profiles in crisis management within the various departments. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that we have been going through and that we are still going through – since unfortunately we cannot say that it is behind us – has upset our lives. We know that these consequences will continue to be felt for many years. Regrettably, precariousness has worsened considerably, as has mental health problems. All those who were already in great difficulty before the crisis experience it even more today. They should continue to receive special attention and our full support. For this reason, some recommendations focus especially on vulnerable people and on the essential attention that must be paid to them. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by thanking our President Robby De Caluwé once again for the work he has done and for trying to bring together and reconcile points of view, systematically taking on heights. He also tried to take into account the different approaches, demands and recommendations, both from the majority and from the opposition. In any case, you cannot be blamed for being a partisan president. You've been a listening president. For this reason, on behalf of my group, I wanted to thank you. I would also like to pay tribute to the wonderful and titanic work done by the committee secretary. Of course, we should thank him for that. Similarly, on behalf of my group, I thank the translation service and all the staff members who have enabled us to work in the best possible conditions. Today, each of us has a duty to be part of the solution, by being constructive. Many members were involved in the work of this committee. I'm not going to go back to a party that I've already talked about too much about tonight. Nevertheless, I would like to welcome all the formations that have worked in this committee, the majority as opposed, and all my colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this report. Everyone worked with their sensitivity, being more or less convinced that the text was in the right direction. In any case, each of them stayed at the table in order to continue the work. For this reason, I thank them. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by simply stating that the health of our loved ones, ours, is, let us never forget, our most precious good. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me not to speak from my bank for the biggest health crisis this country has ever faced. First of all, I should like to say that in the last year, in the many hours together with colleagues in the committee in particular, I have heard many valuable testimonies, often touching and sometimes quite appalling. Despite everything, we have fortunately been able to bring out many interesting things. I have even read some useful recommendations in your report. Like Mr Gijbels, I feel that the overall result is a missed opportunity. A lot of questions have not been answered. Let that not be a surprise at all... I would like to share some reservations with you in advance. I have already seen a number of special parliamentary committees, but this was a unique one. It was a special committee, which was exceptional in many respects. I am not referring to the unprecedented health crisis which led to the very special operation of this special committee. Let me give you an idea of the workability. There were about 28,000 documents, which were classified as confidential and which we were not allowed to print or store. So it didn't happen like I did in other committees of inquiry, where they could be delivered with a watermark. In the Brussels Parliament, where the haunting of Samusocial was investigated, the documents could be consulted online securely. However, all this was not possible here, the committee members could only consult them on the spot on a few computers. That gives an idea of the workability in corona times. I have a second thought. You have all witnessed many times that we in Parliament are experienced experts in unconcerted procedural debates. This is not unique, but the time devoted by the special committee to discussions on the working method and the organisation of work is almost close to the time devoted to the substantive discussions themselves. One of the reasons for this is that the Bureau of the Committee has not been used at all. Because of my bad character and suspicion, I suspect that this was not by chance, but because I was one of the rapporteurs. Let me give you an idea of the efficiency of the committee: the composition of the committee bureau alone, which was not used afterwards, lasted about half a day. It was also very striking that the experts, who have done a lot of work with a great deal of zeal and for godliness and power, were given a much more than supportive role. In other parliamentary committees of inquiry and special committees, the full report drawn up is a political report. That is where the full report is discussed by the elected Members of Parliament. However, of the report before us today, the experts provided the main thrust. They provided the findings and analyses and the groups could only make non-binding suggestions. The main theme of the report is entirely the merit of the experts. Only the part of the recommendations is a full political report, whereas that is normal for the full report of such committees. The fact that the recommendations were then a game of majority versus opposition is less exceptional, as we are used to it because that is always the case. I'll come back to that later. I believe that it is necessary to refresh the memory of some people of the way in which we have come to this special committee. From the outset, when the corona crisis broke out, it was clear that a lot of blunders were being made in dealing with the crisis. This was already clear in March 2020. My party then tabled a proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry at the end of March 2020. Other opposition parties, the PVDA and the N-VA, quickly followed with the same question. At that time, there was apparently an interest in turning it into a genuine parliamentary committee of inquiry. I brought you an article from De Tijd of 1 April 2020, with the clear title: "Call for Corona Research Committee. More and more voices are working for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to draw lessons from the corona crisis." In Flanders it sounded unisono. The first one quoted argued for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, for example on the dossier of mouth masks. Those were words from Kristof Calvo. At that time he was not so often in the Netherlands and we saw him even more in the hemisphere. However, his enthusiasm for the committee has declined rather quickly. I believe that I only saw him at the installation meeting and that he was subsequently replaced in the special committee. In the same article, the opposition parties all asked for a committee of inquiry, as did the Socialists. I quote: 'The Socialists also want an evaluation, a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Socialists are not only concerned that the mouth masks have been blundered, but also that the Swedish Government's policy choices have been denounced. You can see what stupid savings in health care can lead to." It goes on with the other parties, finally also to mention CD&V, who, according to this article, also consider that the case should be thoroughly evaluated. I will give you some quotes later, colleagues from CD&V, to convince you that the call for a parliamentary committee of inquiry also sounded very loud from your party. That is an article of 1 April, but it turned out to be a very wretched April joke. However, that article was not a one-off call. As is often the case in politics, it was recited and repeated in the press. I brought you an anthology of quotes. On 6 April 2020, Mrs De Block was told that the call for a committee of inquiry was increasingly louder among her colleagues. She replied, "I have no problem with that." On 11 April 2020, Minister De Backer was asked if a parliamentary committee of inquiry could be set up for him after the crisis. He replied, "No problem." Mr Coens said in the De Afsaat television programme the day before, on 10 April, "I think it is important to look at who is responsible for what." That didn't happen. "The crisis is of this nature and is so severe in various areas that we will have to investigate afterwards what has gone wrong, with a committee of inquiry. Absolut." Mr Lachaert said on 10 May 2020 in De Zondag, in response to the question of how he felt about the question of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on mouth masks: "I can do that for me. Each aspect of this crisis deserves an evaluation." Mrs Almaci said in Villa Politica on 28 May: "We are still a priori in favour of an investigation to the bone." The Time of Saturday, May 30, 2021 writes: "The corona crisis, according to Coens, has caused a trauma" and quotes him: "Many people have died; many have not even been able to say goodbye properly. There's got to be a catharsis moment. I am thinking of a committee of inquiry dealing with the crisis. The Flemish Parliament has opted for an ad hoc committee, but within a few weeks it will have to evolve into a real committee of inquiry to investigate both the Flemish and the federal approach to the crisis." In short, ladies and gentlemen, if we did not call for it on a number of occasions, at least there was no opposition in the press to a parliamentary committee of inquiry being set up. Nevertheless, there has been no parliamentary committee of inquiry at all. There was no examination to the bone. Certainly no political responsibilities have been identified. That should have been the obvious thing. After shocking events with a strong social impact, it is only natural that a parliamentary committee of inquiry should be set up with the powers of a investigating judge. In order to avoid repetition, which was the design of the special committee and the recommendation, problems need to be thoroughly examined and responsibilities must also be examined. One doesn't rule out the other. The opposite is true. Many research committees have already been set up here in the house for much less. Research committees have been set up following the bankruptcy of Sabena and Optimabank, after the Fortisdebacle, Panama Papers, tax fraud in general and so on. However, at a time when tens of thousands of people had died of corona, Parliament did not dare to set up a full committee of inquiry. At the time of the dioxin crisis, thousands of dead chickens were worth a committee of inquiry. Now thousands of dead people aren't anymore. We were given a special commission, which became a faint cook-up with limited powers. Guilty is what they wanted to avoid. We got a special co-vid committee under the motto "Talking, not pointing." The jars must remain covered. Thus there will be no screening of the FPS Public Health, neither of the FAGG, nor of Sciensano; at least I did not find that in your recommendations. I'm reading you one more quote from the editor-in-chief of Het Nieuwsblad last week. He rightly asks the question: "How well can you draw lessons for the future if you do not dare to look at the past very sharply for fear of stepping on a politically sensitive toe?" Colleagues, asking the question is answering them. A working group of the WHO has written a report to review the corona crisis and evaluate the reactions of governments from all over the world. Any country could send an author. For our country, that was former Health Minister Maggie De Block. I think her absence today is significant. But her windshield, especially the chairman of the committee, is obviously here to take all the wind. Isn't it striking that Maggie De Block is allowed to evaluate his own blunder policy? That's like a waiter who burned down a kitchen and then got to write his own evaluation report. Only this is not a kitchen, it is millions of mouth masks, not a waiter, but a minister. While in countries such as France, ministers involved are being subjected to searches and prosecuted, they are being made judges in this country to judge themselves. This is not even the task of the special committee to define the political responsibilities. However, real research with an indication of the responsibilities is needed, even if it is out of respect for the many victims. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to take seriously a committee set up to remove the culprit of the disastrous Corona approach. I think that just the brief presence of colleagues - of course the members of the co-vid committee, which does not even achieve the limited quorum of 39 Members present - shows how serious you are taking the evaluation yourself. The importance which the majority parties attach to the committee also became clear yesterday in the Conference of Presidents with their proposal that the debate on the bulky report should be held today with 15 minutes or 20 minutes of speaking time per group. Despite the work done in committee, she was not taken seriously. From the outside, the special committee was also clearly looked at in this way. Just think of the fact that the European WHO director announced an hour before the hearing that he wasn't coming, while he had time for the TV studios on the same day. Or think of former Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès, who chose a zoom over a debate on the spot. Think of Sciensano's refusal to deliver his detailed corona figures per hospital to the committee members. I could go on like this for a while, but I think my point is clear. Despite the numerous reasons and the legitimate attempts of the opposition, the possibility of scaling up to a committee of inquiry, which was registered as a sweetener in the internal rules of the special committee, has never been used. Unfortunately, that's what we predicted back then. All this did not change the fact that my good colleague Dominik Sneppe and I were constantly constructive in committee for more than a year during the dozens of hearings, whether in camera or not, and many more meetings. We were trying to get what was to be taken out. The drop, or so to speak, of the crane that finally overflowed the bucket, fell on 11 June. On that day it appeared that the majority parties had set up their own working group, against all agreements in and behind the committee, in order to determine the content of the recommendations among themselves. If, on top of that, a fellow rapporteur gets the message that my party is not being listened to, then I have no illusions that our recommendations would be taken seriously. In this way, further debates are pointless waste of time. Dominic Sneppe and I have since used our time much more usefully and have devoted our energy to an alternative report. For those who have not yet gone through it, there are clear recommendations. The committee chairman's reaction to our departure was next. I quote a Belga message: "We have worked together in this committee for a year, majority and opposition. I would be very sorry if we now turned it into a game of majority opposition at the end. This crisis and especially the victims deserve better." It is indeed a very regrettable state of affairs. I fully agree with you on that. Indeed, as you said to Belga, we have worked well together for a year, majority and opposition. I fully agree with that. No one can deny that in all the meetings with the many questions that we have asked the many speakers, despite everything that we have tried to make the best of it, but from the moment that majority parties sit together to produce joint Vivaldi recommendations, a game versus opposition was openly made at the end. We didn't want to play in that game. I read in your report that every opposition party was annoyed by that majority opposition game. That degout game was created by the Vivaldimiester majority and not by the opposition and certainly not by the Flemish Interest, which therefore stepped off degoutly. You will do exactly what you accuse us of in that Belga message. In psychology this is called the phenomenon of projection: one tries to deny, hide or supplant properties of oneself by attributable them to someone else. And yes, the crisis and, above all, the victims deserve better. It is for them that we have produced that own alternative report, with 84 clear recommendations. Because, don't ever let it be repeatable again. For example, we make recommendations for better communication and the necessary transparency, as well as recommendations to avoid future shortages of hospital beds, care staff, but also, of course, mouth masks and tests. As the only workable solution for the unworkable state structure, which also came back so much in the hearings, our report proposes that health care powers be transferred to the Länder in full. Our report also contains recommendations to put an end to the lack of scientific and political debate. My good colleague, Dominik Sneppe, will look into this in a moment. It will make clear the differences with your often non-binding and hypothetical recommendations. I am sure that today you are very happy and proud with the report before us. You have succeeded: no responsible persons have been identified. But if you are right, let history judge it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u110	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented crisis that our country has been experiencing for 18 months and the exceptional circumstances that result from it have put the whole of our society to the test. Rapid measures were needed to respond promptly to the health emergency and its consequences. Let us recall that the measures taken have helped to alleviate the crisis and its dramatic impact in our country, the violent shock on our economy, our businesses and our self-employed, and on our citizens in general. I would like here to express my solidarity and that of my group, as well as our compassion and our gratitude, to all our fellow citizens who have been affected by this terrible crisis and who are still suffering the consequences. I am also thinking of the victims and their loved ones, doctors, caregivers, hospitals and the tireless work they have done and continue to do in order to best care for the sick. Today, we are called upon to consider and vote on the 135 recommendations of the Special Committee. The Commission, set up on 2 July 2020, had the task of analysing the management of the health crisis. However, and I quote, "the task of the special committee was not to analyse the many political initiatives and measures taken by the various authorities in our country to support businesses and households and to enable the essential enterprises which had to ensure the country's supply to continue to function. Nor did our committee consider it to be its task to make recommendations on the socio-economic dimension of the covid-19 pandemic, or on how the risk of infectious diseases transmissible to humans (zoonosis) could be reduced by promoting global biodiversity." Our committee has worked for a year with a view to transparency and clarity and, above all, in a constructive spirit. The objective was clear: to examine the management of the crisis and to draw the necessary lessons from it in order to formulate and propose recommendations so that our country could be even more effective in crisis management in the future. This special committee was set up as we were still in the midst of a crisis, which involved a necessary and constant adaptation to the evolution of this pandemic. Indeed, and I believe it is unique for a special committee, we were analysing and trying to understand a phenomenon that continued to take place in our country and to affect very heavily the daily lives of our fellow citizens. During our work, we lived the second and then the third wave of the pandemic. Intensive work has been undertaken over the past 12 months, particularly in the context of hearings. We wanted to engage with witnesses and stakeholders from all walks of life, directly or indirectly involved in this pandemic. No fewer than forty-six hearings were conducted. Among those interviewed, we heard representatives of civil society, personalities involved in the multiple agencies involved in the management of the pandemic, experts, medical personnel and politicians. These hearings, of course, have enriched our work, together with the analysis of a very large number of notes, studies and reports, in order to identify the elements chosen to be able to make our recommendations at a later stage. The work of the four experts accompanying our committee has also enriched our analysis, and I thank them for that. The crisis we faced was of unprecedented magnitude and nature. We had to deal systematically with this character and with the progressive evolution of the knowledge of the virus. All the countries that faced it developed their own responses, trying to identify and exchange good practices. But, to everyone, this crisis has required an immense effort of adaptation and resilience. My fellow rapporteurs have presented the way in which our committee has structured its recommendations and made an inventory of them. So I'm not going to expose all of them – all of them are important – but I'm going to focus on some of them. Throughout the crisis, international recommendations, in particular those of the World Health Organization, have been followed successively. The actions taken and the approach to the pandemic have had to be regularly adapted, in particular due to evolving scientific knowledge. Even today, this knowledge is deepening. In our recommendations, it is said that Belgium will have to insist on European partners and other OECD countries to assess and update the functioning and competences of the World Health Organisation, in order to enable it to convene immediately the Member States to better coordinate their responses to health crises of such a magnitude as that caused by covid-19. Hearings, we also want to remember the organizational challenges of our decision-making structure. In Belgium there is the need to create consensus, which makes the decision-making process long and complex. It must be noted that the current distribution of competences, particularly in the field of health, is not such as to facilitate the management of such a crisis that transcends linguistic borders and national borders. It's a fact. We need to modernize our state apparatus and work towards a more homogeneous distribution of health care competencies. Many actors and stakeholders are involved. This slows down responses that often need to be quick if they are to be effective. This is addressed in our recommendations and will need to be thoroughly studied in the context of work on future State reform. For MR, efficiency must be the driving force behind future reforms, beyond ideological divides. That is what the citizens expect of us. Health response and public order mechanisms existed at the beginning of the crisis, and they were used. However, some bodies are not adapted to a crisis that extends over time. In this regard, our committee has also made recommendations that go far enough. I want to point out three aspects. The first is the strengthening and reform of the National Crisis Centre. The second is the creation, structuring and role of the Corona police station. The third is the specific attention that needs to be given to internal and external crisis communication. The MR has often repeated this: the covid-19 pandemic has not only been a health crisis. Apart from the epidemiological dimension, this crisis has had and unfortunately still has social and economic impacts. For example, some measures have affected the mental and psychological well-being of the population. We have to take that into account. From a socio-economic point of view, it seemed important to recall that the budgetary resources were unblocked to the height of the crisis. For MR, the multidisciplinary approach to managing such a crisis is fundamental. It was this just concern that, for example, led the then Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès, to set up the Group of Experts in charge of the Exit Strategy (GEES), whose composition reflected this multidisciplinarity. I am pleased that this aspect is one of the recommendations of our special committee. An ambitious prevention policy to strengthen the health status of our citizens and their resistance to disease is one of our recommendations, and this is important. As I said, this crisis has a psychological impact on all, and also on young people. Health does not subdivide. Health is an inextricable whole. We need a holistic approach. Mental and psychological health is an integral part of health. Our recommendations highlight this aspect. The implementation of our recommendations is a key issue. It will strengthen the resilience of our health care system. Efforts should be continued to integrate this comprehensive vision of mental health and psychological health into broader health. Our recommendations are aimed at ensuring the presence of sufficient strategic reserves. Clearly, a European and global supply problem has arisen. Belgium, like other countries, found itself alone in international trade at the beginning of the crisis. In the future, we will have to be able to count on the strength of the European market, even at the height of a crisis. This was the case after several months thanks to the decision of European governments, including Belgium, to entrust the purchase of vaccines to the European Commission. Whatever we say, I dare not think of the number of doses of vaccine our small country would have had or would not have had at all if we had not been able to integrate into this global market. It is essential that Belgium has been able to advocate for this in European bodies. We will have to continue in this direction. However, it is clear that, in the future, it will be necessary to maintain a dynamic management of rotating strategic stocks of protection and care equipment and medicines, taking into account the adequacy of future crises. I am pleased that this aspect is included in our recommendations. It was often raised during the hearings. In addition, hospitals and institutions will need to have strategic stocks of personal protective equipment. Indeed, we must ensure that they have adequate equipment in times of crisis and that stocks are decentralized. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are coming to the end of a considerable amount of work. It was a very important work which consisted first of listening, then analysing, and proposals. I want to thank our Speaker, the colleagues who have invested in time and energy in this collective work, the services of the House, and our collaborators who have provided us with considerable assistance. We have managed to produce a document that we hope can be a tool for working and leading for the future. Regular follow-up is planned. The government will come back to us regularly to take stock of the implementation of our recommendations. This appointment clause with the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health is crucial. The first meeting is already scheduled and will take place no later than March 15, 2022. So our work is not done. The House thus remains an essential place for democratic observation, analysis and control. It is his mission, at the service of the well-being of our citizens and our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u111	On behalf of the CD&V Group, at the end of the work of the special committee, I would like to express my thanks to all those who have participated in this work, in front of and behind the scenes. We have heard interesting testimonies from diverse groups in more than 40 hearings, including stakeholders who have come to tell their story or represent those groups. Everyone has given their honest view of the crisis and formulated suggestions that were tested and incorporated into this report by our four experts. I thank them for the preparation and efforts they have made. I would also like to thank the committee secretariat very specifically, not only for organising the numerous hearings, but also for managing our work. The hearings have largely confirmed what we were able to establish ourselves, but deepening our strengths and weaknesses is never superfluous. I'll continue with a word of thanks. Thanks to the enormous power and the fantastic use of all the visible and invisible doctors and nurses on the premises, we have been able to provide an answer to the virus in the field. All governments have, of course, done their best to frame healthcare professionals, hospitals and the whole society in an unprecedented global health crisis, as we have never seen before. Given the impact, globalisation and the unknownness with the virus, while at that time no medicine or vaccine was available, this was obviously not an obvious task. Every crisis is a stress test. In times of crisis, everyone wants to pursue perfection, despite the many obstacles and question marks. The word crisis consists of two signs in Chinese writing, one represents solutions and opportunities, and the other represents dangers. In our special committee, we have taken this into account. We have tried to identify the dangers with our colleagues and we have tried to create new opportunities to provide improvements in the future. The recommendations show that only with a more robust and strengthened healthcare system will we be able to combat a future pandemic more effectively and effectively. We need to move with all the governments in this country towards a better health promotion. Our health care is actually in the interest of curing sick people today, and we really should create a shift to keeping people healthy for as long as possible. It happens all too often that it is only when it burns, and if there is one thing that should not happen in terms of public health, it is precisely that. It is therefore very important for us that all our governments set health targets. These may not be identical in all regions, but they must be very specific to the characteristics of the region concerned. There is also an urgent need to re-evaluate and upgrade our care staff. In the past one and a half years these skilled but unfortunately also heavily overworked people have given the best of themselves in the front line. Of course, we need more of those people to ensure that our quality care can continue to be guaranteed. Social agreements have already taken very important steps in this direction in the past year, but there are still important steps to be taken. I'm moving on to our overall crisis management. It is clear that our country, like many other countries, was not well prepared. So that's gotta be better. Hence the recommendation that a sound pandemic plan be developed that can be tested, practiced and updated when necessary. We must strive for a performance earlywarning system at federal and European level through better coordination and monitoring of health indicators. Of course, it is also essential to strengthen the services of the Public Health Office. Preparation will keep us from another mask saga. Now it was the mouth masks that weren't in order or of which we didn't have enough stocks, tomorrow it might be gloves or aprons. The essence is, in particular, that particular attention should be paid to a strategy which requires that all possible forms of personal protective equipment be given special attention, in order to ensure that everyone working in an essential sector can perform their job in a safe manner. It is therefore necessary to invest in a culture and know-how related to risk prevention and crisis management. Hence the enhanced role of the National Crisis Centre, as described in the report. The need for this Centre to be transformed into an inter-federal body, of which the Länder are full partners, is clear after this crisis. The call for unity of command sounded in many hearings, but what exactly was meant by that varied greatly. It is true that due to a lack of preparation, cooperation between the competent authorities was still needed at the start of the pandemic. Therefore, the recommendations firmly opt for the Consultation Committee as the decision-making body. In a crisis that is entering a federal phase and therefore requires cooperation from all the political authorities of the country, it is appropriate that the leadership be taken by a Commissioner appointed by all the competent governments. It is clear that this Commissioner and his secretariat must have the resources and know-how to carry out this necessary task. The recommendations provide a structural impetus for governments to put this into practice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the availability of and access to care. Unfortunately, we saw that non-urgent care was postponed because of COOVID-19. We know the figures relating to cancer detection and we know that immense waiting lists have grown for all kinds of medical interventions and consultations. Our group stresses that this really needs to be improved. Even in times of crisis, it is important that everyone can count on immediate and accessible care. A solidarity-based health system is only strong if it is there for everyone, even in times of crisis. In the field of mental health, several health surveys have shown how people have mentally suffered from the crisis and the measures taken. Psychologists and psychiatrists, as well as psychiatry services of the hospitals, have raised the alarm because of the huge increase and waiting lists. Our group therefore considers it extremely important that the pandemic plan should pay sufficient attention to the consequences for the mental and psychosocial well-being of the population, particularly in the case of children and young people. One element that has had a major impact on people's well-being was communication. Through communication one can make direct contact with the citizens, but it was unfortunately felt by many as confusing, frightening or overwhelming. In this report we therefore call for an information source to be created by the National Crisis Centre as soon as we enter an interfederal phase. We also call for specific attention to target groups and behavioural communication, providing a sufficient perspective for citizens. An efficient and coherent crisis policy must show solidarity in all facets and take every citizen into account, including in communication. Finally, I would like to refer to the division of powers and the homogenisation of public health policy, the pandemic of which has demonstrated the urgent need. Citizens' health must always be at the forefront. The citizen has a right to do so. State reform discussions in the well-established bodies are urgently needed. Anyone who wants to safeguard our prosperity, the well-being of the population and efficient governance in the 21st century must therefore first improve our state structure. We cannot ignore the fact that the current organization of our country is all too often leading to interdependence between the federal government and the Länder. Despite the good will of the levels concerned, mutual dependence has not always been conducive to a rapid and effective response to the crisis. That is exactly the challenge set out in the coalition agreement. I quote: 'At least during this legislature, the government wishes to integrate legislation on a more homogeneous division of competences in the field of health care'. The aim is to provide care as close as possible to patients, without affecting solidarity funding. We are convinced that our country will then be better armed to combat the next pandemic, which will come sooner or later. Not only will the recommendations contained in this report contribute to this, because the pandemic law already adopted this summer will provide a good legal basis. While some parties were shouting along the sidelines, CD&V popped up the sleeves and started working, resulting in our country now firmly prepared for a future pandemic. At the beginning of my speech I said that we had come to an end with the discussion of the report and the recommendations of the work of the special committee, but each end is of course a new beginning. I have heard many times from colleagues that we need to work on the implementation of the committee's recommendations and I therefore propose, on behalf of my group, that we meet at regular intervals to evaluate the implementation of the recommendations. I would once again like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation and look forward to legislative initiatives that can shape the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we must adopt a text on the lessons learned from one and a half years of Corona policy, at least the federal section. As is the case in our country, each Parliament has made its own assessment. That's Kafka at best. The evaluations haven't even been brought together yet. There were 46 hearings, more than 80 speakers and hours of testimonies about everything that has gone wrong for one and a half years. There have been very harsh words and many justified criticisms. There's been a meeting for hours. What's gonna come out at the end of the ride? That's a 40-page document full of platitudes. Platitudes, those aren't my words. Those are the words of political scientist Dave Sinardet a few days ago in De Afgaal. Banality, that's your evaluation. When you read the report and listen to the speeches here today, you feel that you have not done so badly. When Maggie De Block stated a few months ago that she had nothing to blame herself for, the barf was too small. Everyone would go to the bone. When we read the report now, we read that it has all been okay. Mr Calvo tweeted yesterday or today: 'We managed Corona well'. Whatever the majority in the report is doing is rewriting history. I'm talking, among other things, about the destruction of the mouth masks. All mistakes are covered. So you will not be surprised that we will not approve the text. We have done our job and listened carefully. We are therefore submitting alternative recommendations. After all, we can and must learn from the epidemic which has plagued our country and which is still taking place today. I am thinking, for example, of savings on care staff by the Swedish Government, which made sure that the care personnel were exhausted, even before the crisis began. There was also the whole soup of state reform or deformities, which, for example, allowed the pandemic plan for the rest homes to be collected somewhere in a drawer. The policy of two sizes and two weights and the rolling out of the red carpet for the big pharma make sure that many people throughout the world are still not vaccinated today. Those lessons are not drawn in the report today. In fact, Mrs Farih has just proved that the first recommendations on institutional confusion contained 'as stated in the coalition agreement'. So you heard 80 people in Parliament for a year to write what you put in the coalition agreement a year ago. Really. 25,000 people have died. This is the biggest crisis since World War II. It was a debacle and people deserve better. The first reason why we cannot approve the report is, of course, that there is silence in all languages about political responsibility. The PVDA doesn't just say that. In July, Bart Eeckhout of De Morgen wrote a sharp opinion piece and I would like to quote him: "There is no mention of political responsibility. Instead of looking for the truth, this special committee has shifted its focus to covering political responsibility and nurturing all the nasty questions about it. That is the way it is going in our country: to smother all the nasty questions and to cover up political responsibility." From the beginning of the crisis it was always the fault of someone, of the ordinary people, but never the different governments looked into their own bosom. They never looked at their own political decisions and responsibilities, always had to look for a scapegoat: older people sitting on a bench, young people eating a sandwich together, people who weren't in time for curfew and now the non-vaccines. There was never any mention of the responsibility of large companies that allow hundreds of people to work together without respecting the corona rules, or of the ministers who sent care personnel unprotected to the front. Some of them even had to go to work sick. There was never any mention of the absurd political decisions that allowed us to sit at the window on the train to the sea, but had to go to work with hundreds of people on the tram. The nine health ministers didn't even know what they were responsible for. They got in the way of each other and fought for hours in all the consultative bodies. The government always found and finds a new culprit for the crisis. No, it's not the epidemic of the non-vaccines today. It's the pandemic of your failed policy. If we still don't see the end of the tunnel today, it might be because people no longer have faith in your policy, because people still fall without income, if they still have to quarantine, even if they have been vaccinated. If we still do not see the end of the tunnel, perhaps it is because there is still no support policy for those who test positive for COVID-19. All they do is issue fines and corona passes and send the police out. Perhaps it is also because today's contact detection is still bureaucratic and inefficient. We are not out of it today, because Parliament is flat on the belly of Big Pharma and is complicit in the fact that there is an enormous vaccination inequality in the world, which will create new variants. After all, until everyone is vaccinated, the crisis will not end. In France, a few days ago, the former Health Minister was brought to court for endangering the lives of other people. Here in our country, the former Minister of Health, who destroyed mouth masks, because it was cheaper to destroy them than to move them - that can be verified in fact and who kept that from Parliament and the experts at the beginning of the crisis, eventually appointed as an expert in a panel for the WHO to evaluate the approach to the corona crisis. Can you be any more cynical? The first employee to try something like that on the work floor is flying outside. But here, if one belongs to the ladies and gentlemen of excellence, one is called expert and there is no question of resigning. They keep their well-paid seat here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u113	That is why, last May, we called for a real committee of inquiry to be set up. That did not happen and when we had to vote on our proposal, everyone was out of the Chamber, including the Flemish Interest. It was therefore a special committee chaired by a liberal Member of Parliament - icing on the cake - from the same party as the minister responsible, a special committee which is now producing a particularly weak report, which revolves around the pot. Not only do we not draw specific conclusions in the report, nor do we point out political responsibilities, but in the 518 pages there are, in our view, no fundamental lessons. The PTB sees five things to do resolutely and differently. The first thing, of course, relates to state reforms and the fragmentation of competences. We want a single Minister of Health, not new! It's cheaper, more efficient and more human! Secondly, our health care system needs to be radically different, focusing on prevention. But prevention is not bought and it is not sold as drugs. This therefore requires a real change. Thirdly, choices must be made. Focus on people or profit? How is it that the small independents, the cultural sector and the Horeca had to fight like sick people while we opened the door to the big firms? Fourthly, we must listen to the actors in the field: nurses, unions, social workers,... All of us explained that they did not feel at all listened to. Finally, the free, capitalist market has so far not solved our problems. We need an active State that protects the population. The first is the nine Health Ministers we have become known for worldwide. They're in each other's way. Everyone's authorized, but no one's responsible. That's what cost us lives. Erika Vlieghe said this was a killing factor and Marc Noppen, who recently wrote an interesting book, said that political inertia cost lives. We've seen a lot of absurdities in the field. Home nurses, who are under federal jurisdiction, wanted to join in a regional care centers, but no one knew who would pay the bill. When those home nurses knocked at the Flemish government for mouth masks, it took 24 hours for people there to know that it is actually the federal government that takes care of that. On 24 April, Minister Beke fell off his chair when he heard that he was actually responsible for contact research. At that time, it took weeks for it to be put on its feet. On all these state reforms, on that institutional one, this report is only going round the pot. The report is sick in the same bed as our country. Some quotes from the report: 'in consultation with the Länder', 'together with the Länder', 'within everyone's powers', 'in consultation with the Länder', 'in cooperation with the Länder', 'in accordance with the division of powers'. Then what are you suggesting? That is really not clear! What will change after these recommendations? Will there be fewer task forces, fewer working groups? Will there be fewer people at the table now, or will there be more and more people? It's really not clear. I already kissed you, you don't want to go any further than the coalition agreement. What we are going to do with these nine ministers is, in my view, a fundamental question, which also asks the man in the street. The N-VA clearly wants to split the healthcare system and do what Voka does: "We do better what we do ourselves." We have seen that in the way you have dealt with the residential crisis in Flanders. The N-VA also wants to privatise the rest homes in Flanders by means of a privatisation decree. Privatize after the Covid crisis? The strategy of the N-VA is clear: continue to hunt down the sick and continue to save in health care. Think of the EUR 5 billion you wanted to save. Of course, the N-VA wants to split the healthcare system because it wants to implement Voka's agenda. Nor does the chairman of the N-VA put that under any circumstances. My PS colleagues are not here, but I would like to ask them what they intend to do. What lesson do they learn from the covid crisis? Do they plead for the status quo or also for the division of health care? This is not clear in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u114	We have already had a discussion about the savings in health care. From 27 billion to 30 billion is plus 3 billion. Is that a saving for you? In reality, 3 billion extra under the Swedish government was spent on care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u115	I advised you last time to ask the care staff what they think about it and whether they think about it or whether the Swedish Government has saved it or not. Mr De Wever said before the elections that he wanted to save 5 billion more in health care. He didn't put that under chairs or couches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u116	We will not continue to argue, yet I repeat this. We want efficiency gains to reinvest in healthcare. As a doctor, you know very well that a lot of double studies are going on and that these double studies can be done perfectly to better guide patients. You talk a lot about your kiwi model. Your kiwi model also invests in the patients. We think the same about another system or we say the same thing. We are committed to improving efficiency. The efficiency lies with us Flemish. You preach a federal minister, but do you remember the reasons for the split? Do you remember why there was just need for a tailor-made care, why it was just necessary to work close to the patient? That was because the system didn't work. When spending the funds there is a nice budgetary difference Flemish patient versus Walloon patient. The efficiency gains in this area we would very much like to invest again in the care of the Flemish patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u117	Sometimes I think we don't live in the same country, Mrs. Depoorter. Don't you think nine ministers are inefficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u118	Absolutely, because seven of them are not in the Flemish part of the country, my colleague. That's what you're arguing for. It can't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u119	When did I plead for seven ministers? Where did you hear that? I'm talking about a health minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u120	Yes, that's right, but you're talking about nine health ministers over and over again, including in the Flemish part of the country. I tell you once and for all: there is a Flemish Minister for Health and we want to keep it that way. If Wallonia and Brussels want a minister for the toe, one for the nose and one for the thumb, I am fine, but we do not want to pay that bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u121	However, I do not think we have gained any efficiency by moving the powers of the Wetstraat to Martelarenplein; we saw that during the corona crisis. That has not brought care closer to the people. Look at the care providers on the ground: there are so many different points of contact with the government. That has only made it more inefficient, less decision-making power, through all these inter-ministerial conferences, every week. Corona should not be treated differently in Wallonia than in Flanders? It's the same disease, it's the same way of treating it. If we have to negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry, Mrs Depoorter, will we agree on a different price in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels? I don't think so, but I don't think we're going to agree on this now either. You also did not mention that you want to focus on health care, because you want to make further savings, as has been said by VOKA in Parliament, and because you want to disable sick people through the sickness fund, because you want people to work for more than 67 years. You want a split to implement your antisocial policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, you are right: we do not live in the same country, we live in a country where we work, where work is not a dirty word, where people can stand for their own prosperity and where good health care is provided just because of that prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u123	Your country is a country of each for itself, where people have to work for up to 70 years. I don't need to know about that. I was actually questioning the Socialist Party. We know the plans of the N-VA; we know that they want the division of the country through the division of health care. The PS colleagues, on the other hand, are not very clear. In the meantime, we learned that in the summer of 2020, the PS and the N-VA had reached an agreement to move towards the division of health care. We want to go the other way! We want to move towards more unity and more efficiency, above all. We must know that we are not the only ones to think that way. If here in the Chamber we sometimes have the impression that everyone wants a split, know that two-thirds of Dutch speakers do not want your separatism. Six out of ten respondents want a single Minister of Health, including among the voters of N-VA and Vlaams Belang. A large majority of hospital directors also want a single minister of health. In June 2020, some twenty high-ranking academics and trade unionists drew conclusions from the first corona wave. They signed a joint text for one Belgian health policy. In doing so, they joined what a very large part of the population thinks, also a very large part of the voters of Flemish Interest and the N-VA. We want to re-federalise. That's logical, cheap, and human. That's not emotional. We do not need different entities fighting against each other, we oppose all that absurd separatism. We call for the federal state to define the framework, the broad lines for major challenges in health care. It determines the needs. Bringing care closer to the people is not done by transferring them from the Wetstraat to the Martelarenplein, but by investing structuralally in public and preventive health care, close to the people, at local level. That can bring the best health. We need unity to meet the challenges in health care. We don't need division. The second point I would like to make is that we need public and preventive health care. We've heard a lot of experts. Also at the start of the corona crisis we heard saying that we were ready. We felt untouchable, but in the end we were exposed with the buttocks, as Erika Vlieghe said. The testing, tracing, the source detection, the vaccination campaign, all the major preventive campaigns, which we all had to improvise. The structures hardly existed. Investing in basic health care at local level must therefore be central. Richard Horton said the same thing at the hearing. I'd like to quote him. General practitioners, pharmacists and local health centres must identify local fireplaces. If we succeed locally, we will no longer need lockdowns. Until today, however, the real reinforcement remains out. They want to close the vaccination centres as soon as possible. Contact detection is still taking place as a sort of emergency measure and in a call centre-like and bureaucratic way. We propose to invest, for example, in flat-rate group practices in each neighbourhood, where patients can go in an easily accessible way with questions and complaints, including prevention, together with, for example, primary health care where investment should also be made. We also need to get rid of the efficiency logic in hospitals. Caregivers aren't commercants. They should be able to focus on patients and not on costs or profits. Health is a right and not a merchandise. Hospitals and hospitals are not shopping centres, but public services for the population. Let us make use of the corona crisis for this changeover. We must also talk about the financing of hospitals through performance medicine. After all, it ensures that caregivers only get money when they see patients who are sick and not when they invest in prevention or when they make time for their patients. We propose a different funding of hospitals, a bundled funding based on a patient population, where competition really leaves room for cooperation with the first and second lines and care for the elderly. A few months before the corona crisis broke out, we approved, on the initiative of the PVDA, the emergency care fund. The heroes of care have kept our country straight. The Health Care Staff Fund eventually meant a small breathing space, but on the ground the needs are incredibly urgent today. We must therefore move away from the current model. We propose that care workers should be expanded and better funded over several years, as this will also enable us to train new nurses. Thirdly, we must make a choice, first the people or first the profits. We have seen how the lobby of the large company is larger than the lobby of the heart. The VBO and the employers' organisation have pushed through their agenda. While being sent to the workplace, the government took very little measures to support young families, families or grandparents. I would like to refer once again to the loss of income in case of quarantine in self-employed people, for example, who sometimes fall back on nothing at all, but also in patients with very low wages, who fell back on 70% of their pay every week for weeks. The experts in the corona committee have pointed this out and a lot of scientific advice has been published on this recently. People must be allowed to go into quarantine, and this is not done with fines and repression. We need to help and support people, and this can only be done if we can rely on a preventive health care system of people who move into the neighbourhoods, who talk to people and provide concrete support. If someone goes into quarantine today, they get a call from the call center and they say they can't run errands and they have to watch out for the police because they can get a fine. However, what concrete help is being given to a single mother who has three children? A fourth basic lesson for us, which is not separate from the whole problem of social support, is the lack of consultation with the field. "There was no consultation with the government during the first wave," said Yves Hellendorff. There was an example of royal orders to requisition health personnel. Instead of consulting the industry and workers on how to prepare for or deal with the second wave, measures have been imposed that have actually aroused a lot of anger. Céline Nieuwenhuys, who unfortunately was unable to come to committee, although I proposed it, testified of her experience in the GEES, the group of experts in charge of the exit strategy during the first wave. She explained that ministers were often more concerned about Francorchamps and horse racing than about real public health problems. McKinsey's consultants were more concerned about the PowerPoint on the economy than about issues that cannot be expressed in numbers, such as mental health, domestic violence or burn-out. There is a total disconnection between those who decide and those who live things on the ground. For ministers, for MPs, about 40 weeks makes no difference at the end of the month. There isn't a euro of loss of pay. But for the simple people, reality is quite different. That is why we offer – and this is a missed opportunity – to ensure that people can keep their wages in the event of quarantine. The last and fifth lessons we draw are about how the government left the keys to health policy in the hands of a large group of companies, what the consequences were and how the government remained blindly reliant on the free market. Following the outbreak of the SARS virus, at least 84 vaccines were almost in development. However, they were never developed, because the pharmaceutical industry did not see any profit in it. It was only when it became clear that there was big money to be made that Big Pharma took action to produce vaccines. What has finally slipped into the text on this point, and we shall come back to the discussion of the motion for a resolution on patents, which is an amendment by the N-VA Group to explicitly prohibit the removal of patents on corona vaccines. I really cannot understand that, colleagues. We think we need a real public project, which shows the crisis. We need a public health strategy, where the keys come from the government, which sets priorities based on the needs of society. Drug and health policy must be put into public hands with investment in research and development. The fruits of research and development, which we spend an incredible amount of money on today, may after that come not only to the few but to everyone, not just here but everywhere. We must therefore lay down conditions for public funding and support. Finally, nowhere in the report is the free market and the passive role of the government questioned. On the contrary, we read in the recommendations that the internal market must continue to function. However, I believe that the COVID-19 pandemic has destroyed the sacred house of the free market. The free market has not solved our problems. We've seen that with the mouth masks and the vaccines. The Belgian textile industry is one of the world's top, but it proved unable to provide every citizen with a mouth mask. We have seen how the government left the keys to health policy in the hands of a group of large companies and what the consequences were. The government was passive and blindly relied on the free market. Colleagues, you understand, with the PTB, we have learned five great lessons, and we are putting them down again tonight. These are alternative recommendations. Our recommendations are based on what we have heard not only in the committee, but also in the field, namely the testimony of workers, caregivers and trade unions, who tell us that it is really time to change politics. A vision whose central element is the human being and which gives priority to health and not to profit. A vision in which solidarity between people is stimulated, not individualism. A vision for which we are fighting with the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u124	Mr President, I wish to speak because the truth has its rights. Mrs Merckx, I spoke earlier about respect for each other and I welcomed the work that had been done by the various members, particularly those of the opposition. I find it very unsophisticated on your part, Mrs. Merckx, to wait for me to pick up a sandwich to say that the PS is not on the benches. My excellent colleague Laurence Zanchetta represented the PS and did not move for a second throughout your speech. Secondly, regarding your approximations, in particular the fact that the PS could have negotiated a split of health care, I will leave you to your elucubrations. I would simply point out that if today a government is moving forward and taking action, including support for health care workers, it is in particular with the PS. It will be very complicated to take action with the PTB as it systematically refuses to take responsibility. Keep yelling at the balcony and watching others work! It's something you know how to do, it's something you excel in. Keep making your videos and sponsoring them widely on social media, but while you play in this dishonest way, we, at the level of the government, at the level of the members of the government and even at the level of the members of the opposition, will continue to work in this Parliament tomorrow! I included you earlier, but I almost regret what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u125	Mr Prévot, you were not present during my speech. You were a member of the commission. I'd like to know the conclusions of the PS. The report is indeed very vague. He says we have to respect the competencies, but today we have nine ministers of health! Can you tell me what the PS proposes? The government agreement shows that we are eventually moving towards a split. The report does not take a position on this. However, we were able to read in a certain press – it's up to you to deny whether this information is incorrect – that in the summer of 2020, an agreement had been reached between the PS and the N-VA on the division of health care while keeping funding at the federal level. This will be, in our view, a very bad thing. We know what happened with the teaching. First, management was split and then funding. Today we know the state of underfunding of education! If we split the organisation of health care, it is a Trojan horse to achieve the complete division of health care, underfunding, and even the division of the state. It is a breach of our social security that guarantees solidarity in our country. That's what I wanted to hear from you and the PS. As a result of the covid-19 crisis, I think it's all connected. Many people wonder what the nine ministers have done. They walked on their feet. They had a fight during the meetings. This delayed management control. With the PTB, we believe that we need to move towards more unity, that we need to make a reverse movement and that it is together and in solidarity that we can be stronger. If we have to negotiate with Big Pharma, we will all be stronger together than separately, Brussels, Flanders or Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u126	We understand that you disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 December 2019 or almost 20 months ago, the first infection with the coronavirus was detected in China. From that moment on, the virus began to advance without any thought and held the world in its grip. We will not forget the images of overcrowded hospitals in Bergamo, of desperate people in the hospital parkings in India and of the paratroopers in Spain. In our country too, the virus struck hard: more than 25,000 deaths, almost 80,000 hospitalizations and more than 1.2 million infections. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my support for all those affected by the crisis. Behind these cold figures is often a great deal of suffering. Diing in solitude, losing a loved one, without being able to say goodbye, after months still refraining from that one infection, the psychological distress of the severe lockdown, that meant Corona unfortunately for a lot of people. I just wanted to think about that first. Ladies and gentlemen, our society has also shown itself to be strong, resilient and solidarity during this difficult period. We have rightly applauded the heroes of care and all the others who continued to give the best of themselves in hospitals, schools, care centres, garbage collection, supermarkets and police. The list is long. They were working on it. They continued to work because society needed them. They have given shape to the solidarity we needed. Without them, the country would have stopped. The way in which vaccines were developed, distributed and administered at a record rate is also an illustration of the great things our society is capable of. Thanks to the commitment of science and industry, local authorities and thousands of volunteers, we can look forward to the realm of freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, our committee was not only special in name; it was also special because it evaluated the approach to the covid pandemic, while it was still in full swing. After 33 hearings with 96 speakers and after intense debates, we conclude this work today with 134 recommendations. When we heard Richard Horton, editor-in-chief of The Lancet on the committee, many of us fell open. He thoroughly analyzed the start of the crisis. He explained in detail how the virus became a crisis, not just with us. There was a sense of inviolability in Western societies. According to him, scientists from all over the world have never worked so well together. Five papers delivered The Lancet, but governments didn't take the warnings seriously, not even with us. Everyone thought that our health care was untouchable despite the savings. We all remember the first Belgians who came back from China and the way they went into isolation here, but then it was actually too late. From our embassy in China, there were signs that things went wrong in Wuhan, but they were not picked up by our country. They were neglected. There was no culture of prevention and risk avoidance. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, our country was not sufficiently prepared. There was a shortage of care staff. Millions of mouth masks were destroyed and not replaced. The pandemic plan was outdated and not practiced. Unfortunately, at the start of the crisis, there had to be improvisation, by policy makers and by care personnel, who were unprotected in the front line. Over the past 20 months, a lot of things have changed. Meanwhile, there is a stock of mouth masks and other protective material. The policy was coordinated by the Consultation Committee and streamlined by the Coronac Commission. A thorough testing policy was rolled out and a massive vaccination campaign was launched. The care staff not only received applause, but also a look at extra remuneration, extra colleagues and additional training. On top of these necessary improvements, there are a further 134 recommendations here today to better arm ourselves against a health crisis, in order to be better prepared when needed. For my group Vooruit, three concepts are central: preparation, unity of command and communication. Preparedness is about the absolute need to be much better prepared. The rotating stock of mouth masks and other protective material is a first step in this respect. The formatting, follow-up and exercise of a new pandemic plan is the next crucial step. It should be there by the end of next year. This plan will have to include not only a comprehensive strategy, but also the organisation of advisory and decision-making bodies. That is where the concept of unity of command must really be central. That doesn't mean that one person will decide everything, of course. It does, however, mean strengthening a number of services such as the crisis centre, the Public Health Emergency Service and the RMG. That RMG turned a big part of the crisis on one person. We're lucky that person was loyal and hardworking. The role of the RMG should therefore be extended during a health crisis. These services need to be strengthened, better cooperation and can quickly scale up their functioning if a crisis breaks out. Unity of command also means that Europe has a more active role to play in health policy. Europe's capacity for health needs to be improved, much better. That's what we've been able to determine. Streamlining measures in the EU did not happen and is not happening now. A much stricter enforcement at borders, for example, is essential. However, this can only be done at European level. Europe can also do much better in terms of cooperation in the purchase and distribution of vaccines, provided that a framework and model are now being developed to do so. The development of a solidarity system for medical aid and support to each other is a must, unfortunately, we have learned. Communication is also essential in a health crisis. There is communication to the broad population, which must inform everyone clearly, openly and transparently about the health situation in order to have everyone involved in the sometimes difficult measures to be taken. Good communication also means that the flow of information between different services improves. We have a strong civil service force and many highly skilled experts in our country. We need to ensure that they have the tools to base sound policies on the most up-to-date data. Personally, I consider the final report on the health gap in our society to be very important. A health crisis does not affect everyone equally. A health crisis increases inequality in our society. The covid crisis made it painfully clear that health is not the same for everyone. Vulnerable people were hit a lot harder. The crisis will therefore change our health policy. The organisation of our health system needs to be adapted, with more attention to health promotion and prevention. The health gap must be closed. Only then will we be better affected by such a disaster next time. Mr President, I would like to add my thanks to a number of my fellow Members for the constructive cooperation and commitment of the committee secretariat, the experts and our staff to achieve this result. There are 144 recommendations which allow the government, the coronac and the other competent departments to work. After all, the work is not finished. Unfortunately, the corona crisis is not over yet. A fourth wave is warned in the fall. Especially cities and regions with too low vaccination rates could be hit hard again. When the time comes, it is clear to our Group in the European Parliament. In the event of a new corona outbreak, only non-vaccines should be subject to stricter rules. Solidarity means doing his part but also getting his share. Solidarity has been vaccinated and given freedom to do so. It's taking responsibility and not being punished again. First of all, we advocated a wider use of the coronapas than originally intended. It's a good thing we're going through with that now. Only in this way will we promote the protection of all of us. This is the only way we can really put the crisis behind us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u128	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I shall begin by thanking first of all the caregivers, all those who have been at the front to keep Belgium standing during this long crisis and who are still at the front today. I would also like to thank all those who have enriched our reflection during the work of this committee. I would like to thank the various experts of this special committee. Colleagues, perhaps I should like to give a little feedback and remind you for a moment of what was said here in the House in plenary but also in committee by the Minister of Public Health in February 2020: "We are ready. Belgium is ready, arch-ready. You know that in Belgium we have enough beds and sufficient treatment capacity. It's an advantage." Statements that 18 months later were particularly appealing, since the pandemic was a terrible burden. To date, 25,533 deaths, 79,205 hospitalized, 1,229,236 confirmed co-vides. This assessment is only partial because the crisis, the epidemic is still there. Millions of people have been hit hard and their mental health has been greatly affected. They have also been severely affected from a socio-economic point of view. This record is extremely heavy. In view of this, the findings were made and still made by the experts during our work in committee, but already before. In essence, the Belgian response to this crisis is often "too much" in the wrong sense. Too late: the virus was galloping, not enough sense of urgency. Too soft: too soft to order masks, too soft to protect, too soft in its reactions, too soft to detect, test and isolate, too soft in its underestimation of gravity. A Belgian reaction too confused: too confused because, basically, a waste of time and efficiency in political decisions, delays and ping-pong between the nine health ministers, a decision-making puzzle, not only in terms of the different levels of power but also in terms of the task forces. We add up, we add consulting... it's confused, too confused. Too much contested, too, with a form of inability to create the confidence and support of the population. There is still too much dispute in the sometimes political cacophony, many times after the conciliation committees. In view of these findings, which are very clear, several of the recommendations made by this special committee are important and positive. Important and positive, but, admittedly, many are obvious. Evident simply to respond to major failures or shortcomings on the part of the authorities in the management of the crisis. While there are important and positive recommendations, there is also a lot of "too much" in the wrong sense, perhaps like Belgium's reaction, but also in the conclusions and in our recommendations. Too little, for me, of self-criticism and real questioning, too much blurry, vague and weak, too much partyism. Too little self-criticism and real questioning for me! If I say it is because it struck me: loopholes have been clearly highlighted by the experts. In the end, they are not present in this report! There is even this famous paragraph added in the introduction softening the findings and which really relieves the public authorities of their responsibilities. Let me say this: humility is important in the way and in our ability to challenge us, but it has something shocking for the victims as well as for the caregivers. To omit or sweeten findings at this point, as in this introduction, is no longer acceptable in the head of any policy. Too much blur, too much wave, too much weakness and yet in issues that we consider to be major. I won't take them all back. These are points that are sensitive, points that, when you put your finger on them, it is true, do hurt, but points where exactly, citizens, caregivers and patients were waiting for us and will always wait for us. I cannot help but say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in relation to the recommendations made on the strengthening of carers, this is still far too light. Of course, the government has already taken measures, those taken at the end of the legislature by the previous government (and no matter what, as long as they are taken). Of course, they are positive. But the path is still largely insufficient: whether it is in relation to the upgrading of the nursing staff (nurses and nursing assistants) the improvement of the attractiveness of the profession throughout the career, the recognition of specializations, the strengthening of the standards of supervision and for hospitals and for nursing homes, the reserve of staff and the status of crisis, salaries, the recognition of the penitence of this profession for the pension, the defiance of overtime, all of the topics that I have tried and tried to bring back, and which you have not wanted. It must be, I think, because you were stuck in your majority agreement. I make the same observation about the sufficient number of doctors, paying attention to the age pyramid and the specialisations in shortage. The MACS can also be mentioned. For us, the recommendations are far too weak on the whole chapter of strengthening caregivers. The second task, which we find too vague, too vague or even problematic, concerns the distribution of competences. A lot is being said of the partners of the Vivaldi majority; much is being said and the opposite is being said about the distribution of health skills. You're all stuck in a government agreement that clearly says things, doesn't dislike Mrs Gilson, who said the other way around. In the words that your President signed and that you voted in the government agreement, this is clearly a regionalization for health. With what happened during this crisis, with the incessant ping-pong, with the waste of time, with the loss of efficiency, I imagined that the parties of the Vivaldi could have concluded something other than a laconics "we'll see later". This special commission is not in a position to dare to set a course, to dare to say that there is a need for simplified and coherent health governance. You are teaching Europe – rightly – by saying that Europe is not sufficiently coordinated and coherent. It is easy to teach Europe the lesson, but it is more complicated to learn at home in Belgium about the distribution of health policies. It's easy to teach caregivers: they have to do this, they have to do this, better and better. It seems to me terribly difficult, on the policy side, to dare to make their own self-criticism and simply to recognize that this division among the nine health ministers is a nonsense in terms of the effective management of a pandemic such as we are experiencing today. As you know, I am largely in favour of a governance that is simplified and re-federalized; I hear that it is complicated for the parties of La Vivaldi to have written this. To say that we are doing a copy-paste of the government agreement and content ourselves with a laconics "we will see later", let me tell you that I found this very insufficient. That point, you can't explain it to patients, or to caregivers, or do it after the episodes of repeated mess between the different levels of power and between the different ministers of health, which I won't call back here because it would take too long. That would upset you a little bit, and I understand that. The third major project, which for us is far too vague and weak, is the major levers, which remain important. We were talking earlier about "tester-tracer-isoler", and I always add sequencing. We are still not there today and you have not wanted to integrate it into the research component of the super-contaminators, which are certainly few in number, but which are the cause of the majority of the contaminations. I'll add the ventilation. Minister, this is barely mentioned in this report and in these recommendations. I'm going to be told I'm rabid about it again. Yes, ventilation remains a crucial element and we have not dared to put it forward. Yet it is simple, basic, it does not cost much and it is remarkably effective in our arsenal of prevention, even if it is not by itself of course. This breakdown, for reasons beyond my control, has hardly been mentioned. This subject did not seem to question the great world in the commission. The fourth major project, which for us is also too vague and too weak or even missing, is the way in which we want to give ourselves the capacity in Belgium to manage major crises. I am referring here to systemic crises and not to crises that can occur on a daily basis. The four experts called in a very strong and coordinated way for the creation of a federal crisis management agency that is obviously quite different from the current Crisis Centre, than simply the coordination of emergency services with this integration of all crisis structures, all levels of power and all departments. They made it clear that simply coordinating through a reformed crisis centre – which, on the other hand, was your choice – was not enough for crises of this magnitude, gravity and duration. I'm totally right about them. The goal is obviously not to do anything more. Moreover, since then, a new dossier gives the experts particular reason, that is the flood. On 30 July, Professor Hugo Marynissen spoke on a Flemish television channel. The catastrophic situation of the floods was known at that time. Je le cite: "We're going to encounter more crises and we're not ready for that." These are very clear words. Here again, Professor Hugo Marynissen pleaded for progress, organisation and establishment of a much stronger crisis management structure in the face of particularly severe and serious crises. In that regard, we believe that the report does not go far enough and is not sufficiently ambitious. To mention just a few major emblematic issues, the fifth and final important issue of this report, which we consider to be far too vague and too weak, is the issue of funding. You're going to tell me, "Yes, but finally, in managing this crisis, we managed to gather and mobilise budgets." That's absolutely true. However, how many times – I didn't count them, I should have done it – the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference, to cite only this example, had to decide to postpone some files because it was unable to decide, and in particular because the discussions were round about who was going to fund them? In the event of a pandemic, urgent action must be taken. Take the example of masks. How come masks were ordered in March when it was very clear that the stock had been destroyed? All the signals from wholesalers, pharmacists, hospitals and caregivers were in the same direction that we were facing a shortage and that the market was going to be saturated very quickly. We had all the signals so that we could wake up earlier, but in practice this was not done. One of the factors that explain this situation is the fact that everyone was sending the ball away, nobody wanted to pay and everyone said it was up to each other to do so. The proposal of the experts to set up a pandemic fund that can, inter-federally, fed by each level of power, mobilize and decide extremely quickly, inject into the field or into purchases in the example I have just given, is a major element in order to be able to cope with a crisis in the best possible conditions when this crisis occurs. Again, as far as funding is concerned, we obviously need to be able to afford it, and the recommendations of this committee are, in my view, far too weak in this respect. Too little self-criticism, I said, and questioning. Too much blur and weakness, I just mentioned it. And then, too much party. That word is probably hard, I agree. The debates in committee took place cordially, Mr President, even though there were difficult times. I must acknowledge – many of you have been in politics longer than I have – that I had never experienced such a situation. In my personal capacity, I would never have imagined that in a special commission where we have to discuss and try to move forward on a subject as grave as we have known, with as many victims, we will find ourselves with a bi commission that meets with the parties of the majority, a situation where we copy and paste the government agreement. I could never have imagined myself in such a situation! That's what happened. That's unfortunate. You wanted to stay within the logic of the previous government and that of this government. In this way, you wanted to lock up the work of this committee and the perspectives that could be drawn. We can say that to each other; we said that to each other in committee. However, in my personal capacity, I was particularly impressed, which is why I wanted to talk to you about this today. I always hope that, perhaps in the future, in other committees or in other stages in the Committee on Health – let us acknowledge that this is happening in committee all the time – the lines can move and that we can work in a democracy other than with a one-sided stance like that. Before concluding, I would like to pass on a forward-looking message. Indeed, all of these recommendations are of no interest if they are not implemented. I heard a colleague, who will recognize himself, say that there is an urgent need to implement them. Minister, since you're here, the committee's work has been over for some time. All this has been orchestrated in connection with the government and therefore yourself on all aspects of health. I tried through a few examples to examine whether things had changed somewhat. Is this urgency to implement them that I hear in the parties of the majority being applied? I give you a few examples. One colleague said that victims should be recognized and that it was fundamental. I note that on the part of patients with long covids, the situation remains very difficult, minister, despite my long calls, despite the international studies that are plethora, despite the simple measures that are requested such as physiotherapy, the possibility of a correct refund of a larger number of physiotherapy sessions. It's still not the sea to drink and it's for the benefit of patients and public health! There is also the whole issue of re-employment and social security. "A more coherent communication", we have all insisted on this point, it is an important and positive recommendation. I see that on the covid safe ticket, we have a lot of cacophony. I also note that, for a series of decisions, once again, tension is created with citizens rather than accession. When you have a prime minister coming here - it's sexy for the vaccinated - saying that "it's an epidemic of non-vaccinated people", it doesn't create confidence. This does not create confidence, yet, Minister, we have 500,000 people over the age of 45 years who have still not received any dose of vaccine. What interests me, in your leader and it also seemed to me, in our job is to create this commitment and confidence. What should be of interest and priority to us is to convince each of these 500,000 people over the age of 45 to be vaccinated. The figures have not changed since July. Mr. President, would you like me to make a little stop here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u129	Mrs Gilson wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u130	Mr President, since Mrs Fonck personally questioned me, I would like to use the terms of the Vivaldi Government's agreement. In the coming legislature, the one we are currently living in, the government intends to make an important contribution to modernization, to increasing efficiency, and to deepening the structures of the state. The government will launch a broad democratic debate on this subject involving citizens, civil society and academia, as well as a dialogue between political representatives. The objective is a new structure of the State from 2024 onwards with a more homogeneous and efficient distribution of competences in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity. This should lead to a strengthening of the federated entities in their autonomy and of the federal level in its power. Cooperation and respect must be central. I do not believe that I have said anything else or spoken contrary to the spirit of this government agreement. We will aim for efficiency, as I said, and that is what the citizens expect of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u131	Mr President, I will therefore read you the whole government agreement, dear Mrs Gilson. On efficiency, we agree. We've been saying that for a long time. Let's go! I only talked about that earlier. I quote: "The government wishes, in any case during this legislature,"– each word counts – "to incorporate legislation concerning a more homogeneous distribution of powers in the field of health care." So far, it's nice; the rest is less so! "The goal is to provide care as close as possible to the patient (federal entities), without affecting solidarity funding." The federated entities, dear Mrs Gilson, is obviously a regionalisation of health skills. It is not enough to wear a mask in the colours of Belgium to talk about re-federalization; it is also necessary to have a government agreement that does not provide for regionalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u132	Mrs. Fonck, Mrs. Gilson would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u133	Here we go again for a ride!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u134	Mrs Fonck, I'm talking about efficiency. He is not opposed to homogeneity. You interpret this passage as a total regionalization, while interpersonal funding and solidarity are also well mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u135	Look, I read you the government deal word for word. When we talk about the transfer of skills to federated entities, I think everyone will interpret it clearly. It is a nice way to try, in a second step, to make the agreement read differently. However, nothing is ever lost! It's never just a government agreement! Therefore, in all humility, I will stand with those who will want a simpler and more effective governance – without it moving towards regionalization of health or the maintenance of the present situation, with the nine Ministers of Health. It is indeed a re-federalization that will prove to be more effective in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u136	One last speech by Mrs Gilson.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u137	I will not answer any more, but I have not spoken of re-federalization or regionalization. I spoke about modernizing our state apparatus and working towards a more homogeneous distribution of health care competencies and launching, as envisaged in the government agreement, a thorough study in the context of work on future state reform with a view to achieving efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u138	Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u139	Of which act, Mr. President! But I refer to your government agreement that you voted with the clear mention of sending health skills to federated entities! Look, I'll let you handle in-house the problems of the interpretation of the agreement. It's a shame you didn't read it better when you voted. Even if the minister has left, Mr.President, if you don't mind, I call on the government to work on this, perhaps in this perspective between our recommendations, this urgency to implement them and the reality of what is being realized or not. The few examples given here are striking examples of what is wrong, but can still be corrected. I hope that the Ministers of Health will take the bull by the horns to move forward, including on the part of caregivers. You and I get these important letters. You, like me, see in writing how much more caregivers are asking – legitimately – than the government is giving them, and you, like me, hear the government say that it is satisfied with its current work. On the contrary, I think there is still a lot, a lot to be done. We will not vote on the conclusions of this report. There are things that I could have largely voted for, things that we all contributed to, and so do I with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u140	I had tabled several alternative texts in committee. I have made the choice here not to table them any more and not to table a motion with these amendments either. To be sincere with you, I think that with a little click, the majority will evacuate all these alternative motions without even reopening them or considering things in a more constructive way. The texts I had already tabled in committee did not, therefore, seem useful to me. I think the majority's conclusions are that it does not find much interest. Maybe it's a shame for patients and caregivers. It may also be a pity for public health. The main reason why my colleagues in the CDH and I will not vote for this report is because we have a sense of clarity – there are positive points but above all a lot of obscure points about the blurries and weaknesses, you will understand – but it is also because there is not enough: not enough for patients, not enough for public health, not enough for caregivers either. The future will tell us whether we can correct, reboot and move forward on important projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally aware of the outcome of a very long work of more than a year. First of all, like my colleagues, I would like to thank all the people without whom this report would not have been possible. First of all, there are the speakers who have brought us their expertise in committee, but also our four experts who have followed with us these 46 hearing sessions to lay the foundations of this report, each time with a thorough and detailed analysis of the challenges posed by the health crisis and its management and who have done so by juggling - it must be recalled - with their own professional obligations and also by dealing with the various waves of this pandemic. I would also like to thank our committee chairman, Mr De Caluwé, who has ensured that, when necessary, we are brought back from the serenity in our debates, but also Mrs Offeciers, the committee secretary, the staff of the House, the staff of the staff and the interpreters. For them too, the finalisation of this report must be a relief but also a pride with certain nuances that I will bring later. In addition, I would like to thank the colleagues who took the time to analyse our amendments, to explain why they refused them – that was often the case, it must be said – but also sometimes why they supported them. I must stress this because it proves that, despite our differences on some points, there was a shared will on the part of all democratic parties to work constructively. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the only party that deserted our work at the time when we had to put our hands in the country and write the report in camera in the absence of the cameras and journalists is the Vlaams Belang. This proves that an extreme right-wing party is only good at yelling at scandal, scaring people, surfing their anger, teaching others but being unable to work for the benefit of all. I must regret, however, that the majority, in any case at the beginning, drafted their own amendments in a working group outside the committee, excluding the opposition parties. This could have been avoided since, for example, in the Brussels Parliament, parties of the majority included opposition parties in their drafting work. It was therefore not a good way to start this drafting work. However, once the resulting frustrations had been shared, the majority and opposition had been able to debate the amendments of each individual. It is therefore regrettable that the Vlaams Belang has never crossed this course of frustration, disgust – call it what you want! – to shove in his corner the rest of the work. I also regret that partisan divisions have not always been overcome, in any case, at least two times. First of all, when we have to go further than what is provided for in the government agreement, which ultimately gives this report a certain political connotation, but not in the sense that questions are settled, where we listen to the sectors, but rather in the sense that we remain within the limits of our government agreement, regardless of the needs of the ground. The partisan divisions were also not exceeded when responsibilities were to be established. Mrs De Block, who unfortunately, for reasons I do not know, is not present today, had the honesty at her hearing to acknowledge some of her mistakes, which I broadly welcomed at the time. I continue to believe that his honesty honors him, if only the majority has protected him, as she has protected all the ministers who have made decisions that, whether you like it or not, have had an impact on the gravity of the balance sheet of this crisis management in Belgium, and whether they are the ministers of the Michel government, the Wilmès government and, of course, the De Croo government. These ministers were protected when they underestimated the seriousness of the situation, did not anticipate things or cut them off from our health care budget. In July 2020, when we set up this committee, we knew how much our work was expected, but we were completely unaware that we should also take into account two other waves of the epidemic, which would make our work even more difficult and difficult. We have had to take into account new problems, but also new solutions such as rapid tests, vaccines, ventilation – it is regrettable that this is not mentioned anywhere in the report, as Mrs Fonck has just pointed out – or new studies, while keeping the course of the summer of 2021. Also in July 2020, we knew how comprehensive we should be to help future governments have a real roadmap, to anticipate and deal with other health crises, given the constraints of democratic decision-making, but also the complex institutional structure of our beautiful country. After all this work and reading this long report, I must acknowledge that my party agrees with the findings of this report, which raises the points which have been problematic and which had to be answered. On the other hand, the resulting recommendations are sometimes unclear and sometimes ambitious. First, the distribution of competences has been a major factor in our discussions, and I would like to return to this point. Experts were unanimous about the harmful consequences of our health care system shared by nine ministers responsible for health. As my colleagues at the N-VA have said, Francophones probably have a job to do to rationalize their skills at their level. But what has been pointed out above all by the experts is the regionalization of the competences in the field of health, regionalization that you want to pursue towards and against everything, while all the experts have stressed how meaningless it was to have one level of authority competent for prevention, namely the Regions, and another for curative, namely the federal. Erika Vlieghe talked about Killing Factor. It was a very strong expression that deserved an answer that was just as strong. Thus, when the report begins by saying that the covid-19 pandemic has changed the direction of health policy, it is said that there will be a real challenge to the current distribution of competencies, that the lessons will be learned. The report rightly emphasises the need to analyse state reforms in accordance with the government agreement. Indeed, on page 7, it advocates a strengthening of the federated entities in their autonomy. For the rest, for the institutional part, it ends there! It follows that everyone will be able to deduce what he wants, depending on the institutional position of his party. Of course, the report recommends thinking about a federal approach to crisis that can be based on a few clear principles rather than fixed structures, on resilience rather than on reactivity, but you will agree that it is far too insufficient and far too imprecise to guarantee that we will move well towards crisis management but also towards a future state reform that is solely, and only, driven by efficiency! However, we cannot argue for a more effective reform of the State, in consultation with the actors on the ground, and then finally endorse an increased fragmentation of powers, as could be deduced from the report, since it is absolutely not advisable to go further in the regionalisation of health care when it was a very clear observation that emerged from our hearings. In our view, this is a mistake, which is why we are re-submitting our amendments in any case by means of a motion aimed at clearly mentioning the need for a unit of command at the federal level. Because, while the report emphasizes the need to strengthen collaboration and coordination between levels of government, it never speaks of centralization of decision-making power, at least when significant divergences emerge and require a level of authority, in this case, the federal government. The report notes, of course, that the Concertation Committee will be the unit of command so much sought. Except that, as we have seen on several occasions, this Conciliation Committee has not prevented decisions imposed or criticized by other levels of government. I am thinking of the curfew that has been different from one Region to another for months or, more recently, the use of the covid safe ticket. On the other hand, the report states, as requested by an amendment in committee, that the overabundance of bodies around the Codeco and a National Crisis Centre, NCCN, which sometimes competed, should be avoided. The institutional question also arises through the recommendation to strengthen the structural collaboration between hospitals and nursing homes for which the federated entities have been competent since the last reform of the State. This is all the more necessary when it is known that half of the total Covid-related deaths recorded were residents of these MRs and SRMs. The report also stresses the need for guidance from the Bioethics Advisory Committee on care that can or may not be cared for in hospitals when services are approaching saturation, as we have known. Here, too, it is essential to know that three in four people had to give up the care they had been given prior to confinement. This is a real problem because this delay in care leads to a deterioration in the health status of the patients concerned, particularly in the most disadvantaged and vulnerable groups of populations. Yes, there is a need for guidance to sort out care that can be taken care of in such circumstances, but a large-scale health plan is needed to make up for this delay in care and consultation. The report could have had the ambition to mention it. I also have to come back to the issue of our health care system. Again, this is obviously an essential aspect because, even today, caregivers feel – despite applause, thanks and the White Blouse Fund – a total lack of recognition, while, during the crisis as well as before, they were already carrying our health care system at arm's length. It is in this that I was at the outset really shocked at the meagreness of the initial recommendation on healthcare staff, namely that it was simply necessary to "continue the upgrading and strengthening, in collaboration with the federated entities, of primary care, namely general practitioners, nurses but also pharmacists". I was then relieved that, as a result of various amendments, this aspect could be somewhat expanded, notably by the appointment of home nurses, kines or psychologists. However, these recommendations remain far too general in terms of the issue at hand. I am thinking of initiatives to encourage as much as possible the retention of patients at home. I think, of course, of the nurses too. The report, of course, refers to a re-evaluation of their profession, and I welcome it, except that it should also be stressed that this re-evaluation can only be carried out in consultation with the sector – that is the basis – but also by recognizing the nursing profession as a difficult profession in the context of access to pensions. Why? Because we cannot say that we are revitalizing a profession if, alongside that, at the same time, we deny the most pressing and legitimate recommendations, which is why, too, we want the majority to be delighted and to accept our amendments on this subject. I am also thinking of doctors, since the report insists on the need to improve front-line professions, but without ever daring to mention a structural problem which, as we have said, affects all regions of the country, namely the shortage of doctors. It is also for this reason that we would really like this report to dare to name this problem and dare to bring to it one of the solutions that the sector, in particular medical students, has been asking for for too long, namely the end of the numerus clausus. I am also thinking of the data, which objective the impact of the health crisis on healthcare providers. Today, it is known that these caregivers were at the front without protective equipment during the first wave and how harmful this has been to their mental health, with the fear of bringing the virus back to their loved ones, but also in terms of death. We can therefore only agree with what is included in the report, namely the need to have a thorough record of the contaminations affecting healthcare providers and healthcare staff. But in our view, it was necessary to go further and ensure that this registration also covered deaths, which was finally incorporated into the report by the adoption of our amendment in committee, proof that the opposition worked constructively. With regard to the pandemic plan that has never been updated, it is an excellent thing that the report first sets out the guidelines that it should at least foresee and the fact that it must be continually updated and regularly exercised, that it takes into account public health but also all the dimensions of public order (social and economic dimensions) and the impact on mental and psychological health, since these dimensions - we know and have said too much, but we will never say enough - were too much set aside during the crisis. On the other hand, as during the crisis, local authorities are completely set aside in this report and, in particular, in the context of the preparation of the pandemic plan, even though this report emphasises the dimension of public order for which the mayors are on the front line. The report also provides for coordination of the communication on downstream health measures with the various federal and federated entities but also with the municipalities. But when it comes to consulting with the municipalities upstream, the majority of Vivaldi finally refuses to foresee it by trying to justify it - and we heard it in committee - by the fact that it would not be possible to consult with all the mayors! Forgive me, but this is a justification that just doesn't hold the road at all. You know this very well because the Union of Cities and Municipalities exists precisely for this purpose: to allow this consultation which you are planning in another part of the report, namely the communication section. That is why we would like this report to evolve to provide for genuine consultation with provincial governors and mayors and not, as is the case today in the report, a simple consultation. Another important aspect is screening and quarantine. We saw it again this summer, this aspect is essential, in particular to deal with these variants that precisely feed on our trips abroad. We'll see him in the fall, too. Screening remains essential to break the transmission chains of the virus but also to recover our freedoms safely via the covid safe ticket since it gives people who are not vaccinated or who do not want to be vaccinated to get tested. The report rightly stresses the need to take measures, in consultation with the various levels of power and with due regard for the distribution of powers, which must be useful in monitoring compliance with this quarantine and in supporting isolation, particularly for vulnerable audiences. This is essential when we know that in January only 40% of Belgians returning from red areas were tested. The report's recommendations could have highlighted the effectiveness of some of these measures. Perhaps the lack of time or setback has prevented us from integrating some of these measures. It is a shame, not to mention that this would also have been an opportunity to insist, for example, on the Coronalert application, which, it must be said, has been too little promoted by the authorities. I also think that we all have a responsibility for this. With regard to testing as such, I am very pleased to see that all the laboratories available in our country, i.e. university, hospital and private laboratories, are intended to be involved. It is fundamental to remember that in April 2020, at the height of the first wave, almost 45 accredited laboratories were simply excluded from our screening strategy. The issue of testing and quarantine also raises the issue of the processing of personal data. We know how much our citizens are extremely concerned about this issue. Here again, I am pleased to see that this issue will therefore be dealt with within the framework of a law that will define what data is collected, which has access to it and for what purposes, without having been able to do so within the framework of the Pandemia Act, since this issue is so essential and complex that it requires a law in its own right. There is, of course, also the communication aspect on which I cannot stalemate. This report rightly emphasises the need for appropriate communication, accessible to all audiences, targeting the target groups as well as those involved in the field. My group is therefore pleased that we have finally taken into account our insistent call for priority communication to be given to those actors on the ground who need to organize themselves as quickly as possible in order to be able to respond to an urgent situation and to the health measures specifically directed at them. I am thinking of the staff in hospitals and nursing homes, the local police, the paramedics or the mayors. But at the same time, I have to regret two things. Firstly, with regard to the need to obtain and maintain public confidence in the measures taken, the report does not go far enough by providing that as much objective information as possible will be available on the single source of information to be created, even though it is well known that our citizens and fellow citizens need and still need transparency as regards the studies on which health measures were based or not. It is this transparency that we have missed so much in order to keep the people in line with the measures. Secondly, the report also calls for great attention to be paid to vulnerable groups. That was recalled at the moment by one of my colleagues. This was obviously essential, except that by not naming them, if only as an example and therefore as a non-exhaustive measure, the report misses the opportunity here to see all those who have suffered particularly from this crisis and who deserve additional protection mechanisms and information dedicated to them. I'm thinking of the elderly, the people with comorbidities, the homeless, the inmates. Finally, I must point out that if a great deal of work is to be done today, this report must above all mark the beginning of another work: the follow-up of all these recommendations, and the implementation of concrete and properly funded measures. I am also pleased to hear that the majority is calling on the government to do so in the context of the development of future state budgets. It is ultimately a matter of respect for all those who made this report possible and which I mentioned earlier, but also for all the victims of this terrible health, economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u142	Colleagues, I'm gonna tap out of another keg. You may not be surprised, but I want to talk about crisis management in particular. A classic pitfall after every crisis is that we prepare for the crisis that is over. Should we review the pandemic plan? Absolutely. Is that enough? Absolutely not. Everything starts with great planning and asking ourselves together with all the services the question: what if? That question is as important as a plan that ends up in the closet. There's got to be a plan. Appointments have to be made, but the road to them is at least as important. Everything starts with a good knowledge and good use of the existing structures. In our country, we actually have a good structure in terms of emergency planning and crisis management: the mayor, the governor, the minister. In a federal phase, there are several cells that are set up, an information cell, an evaluation cell and a policy cell. All these cells have a function. There's a logic to that. However, we must note that this logic is far too little known to policy makers and presidents of important FPS. It could have been formulated more severely for us in the report, but I am counting on people to understand its importance. A mayor gets a crash course when he takes office, which may not be that extensive, but at least he or she gets the basics. These are explained by the province. The provincial governor invites the mayors and they get an education. Well, I think that we should also organise this training for everyone who becomes chairman of a FPS and for all ministers who take office. Each minister must at least have someone in his cabinet who has some sense of crisis management. That would help avoid a lot of misery. How did we see that in this crisis? In the event of a crisis, experts normally evaluate and arrive at a policy cell in which different disciplines will look at the consequences of the application of a given measure and its feasibility. For example, if one decides not to sit on a bench or impose masks, it must be submitted to a multidisciplinary group, a policy cell, where the police can say whether this is feasible and verifiable. They can also tell us what consequences we need to take into account in a particular decision or measure, and what we need to organise. The information cell then looks at how a measure that has been tested for feasibility can be communicated with a particular target group. That's the normal way of working. Ministers then make decisions based on what the experts ask and on what is feasible and determine how we will communicate it. I believe that the report by the experts came into the hands of the Minister without all these intermediate steps being taken in a thorough manner. Colleagues know that I have asked almost every minister in committee in vain why a structure such as the National Security Council, known as a security given from the world of intelligence and security that has nothing to do with health crises, was used as a decision-making body. We didn't get an answer. I am very pleased that the call for better knowledge of crisis management in this country is included and I hope that it will be implemented very quickly. Another thing is that we have not only made far too little use of the existing structures, but also of the existing expert groups, such as the Team D5. This can provide communication assistance anywhere on land and has the necessary expertise. We have that in our country, just like we have a Crisis Support Team that can help governors, presidents of FPS and even sectors. That wasn't used either. In this country, we have certain tools, such as the ICMS, a platform used by mayors, governors and ministers to communicate decisions and assess the extent to which things have been carried out. We haven't used that either, just like BE-Alert that we have used far too little. If we were to start using the existing structures and tools, that would bring a lot of progress. I am pleased that the recommendations in the Emergency Planning section are fairly broad and not specific to the pandemic. This means that we have a general preparation, not only specifically for this pandemic, which will hopefully be over soon, but also useful for future crises. All the problems associated with that decision-making process have also been expressed in the misery of the MBs and the FAQs. Everyone understands that they were needed at the beginning, but when the new government took office in October, I had good hopes - and not only I - that this would be put to an end. The Prime Minister has often said here that he was also concerned about the constitutionality of these MBs. So we thought that would be done quickly. However, it is September 2021 and those MBs are still there. Many people have already been thanked here and a great deal of sympathy has been expressed for many sectors. I fully agree with that. However, I would also like to support the work done by local authorities from the start of this crisis. The MBs that were announced arrived far too late, contained many uncertainties and had to be translated into FAQs, which raised new questions. The local authorities have done an incredible job in one year, and they can certainly be put in place for that. They were confronted with all the uncertainties, they were asked by the citizens and they did not know what to let go on in their territory and what not. So I like to lance the local authorities here and say that they've actually done very well. Then I would like to say nothing about the organisation of vaccination, because that too was fantastic. We now have a pandemic law, but for some reason it's a mystery, nobody knows what we're still not off the MBs. I hear they're waiting for the federal phase to shut down and then do something. What exactly are we waiting for to shut down that federal phase? Nobody knows. Another thing I want to offer is that we often hear that we had not seen the first wave coming and that it was much bigger than expected. That's right, it had to be improvised at first. If we had used the existing structures, we might have had to improvise a little less, but it was indeed an unknown one. However, we also knew a second and a third wave and everyone on the site says that we have learned far too little lessons from the first wave. I think that's true, too. What we've done now is a start. There must be an evaluation within each department and all these services must also carry out an evaluation together. That is why I am very pleased that there is the global debriefing report, which I have been advocating for a very long time. There is also a legislative proposal for this in the Committee on Home Affairs. The word global is important here. I am sure that all services will make an evaluation of the FPS Health, the FPS Home Affairs, the fire department and the police, but one never gets together. That is why I am very pleased that the word 'global' is finally in place. Since we have learned too few lessons from the first wave and we have made the same mistakes over and over again in the second and third wave, I would like to ask you to work on quick wins at last. After all, it will take some time for all the recommendations to come, but it would be very good if all the services and disciplines could look at what they need to change very quickly. I want to end with a call for cooperation. Please break all silos. Health wanted to keep the problem to itself first, in the beginning it was a multidisciplinary crisis. However, it soon became clear that the approach had to become multidisciplinary, but there was agoraphobia to do so. Drop those silos and work together. A crisis centre is only efficient if it is inter-departmental, inter-federal and multidisciplinary. We have literally written that, so please let us get to work on it. Let us also look at what we are doing with regional crisis cells, because they too have a role to play. So I'm asking you to demolish the silos and work together and strengthen the Crisis Center. If it asks for information, give it to me. It must be far too much effort to get the right information. Have faith in the expertise and structures that have always worked well and stop inventing new things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my speech as you all did and to applaud people, in particular: we have done well, what a wonderful cooperation across party boundaries, beyond the opposition majority and opposition, in short, with true romance. Colleagues, you do indeed have every reason to applaud each other: you have seen the chance to turn each other out of the wind and not to hold anyone responsible. I can still hear Mr Jiroflée say: we go to the bone; every stone must be above. But, ladies and gentlemen, at best, only a few pebbles have shifted. We of Flemish Interest do not participate in such a sanctimonious display. We see no reason to applaud policy makers. After our first blunderbook, especially dedicated to the mouth mask saga and the chaos in the beginning, we could have written a second blunderbook, especially about testing and contact tracing, and even a third book dedicated to the orders of syringes and vaccines. As if that had not been enough, we could write a fourth book devoted to the so-called scientific basis of the measures taken. So there was enough dust to be critical. But let this be the problem of the special committee: being critical was not appreciated. Under the impetus of the chairman, every effort was made to ensure that no one was responsible and to cover everything nicely with the cloak of love. You've been avoiding the question of those responsible. The question of who is responsible and how the problems can be avoided remains unanswered. The leaders, who did not stand up as leaders during the different waves of the pandemic, who did not protect their population and who preferred to leave the leadership and TV studios to the experts, unless it was natural to announce relaxations, the report does not point out their responsibility. The impact of the pandemic is enormous. The social scars are particularly large. It is precisely for this reason that the government must be prepared to offer a humble mea culpa to all caregivers, to all patients and their families who are still suffering and mourning, to the many long-covid patients, who are still suffering and left to their fate today, to the tens of thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of workers and self-employed, who, while you were patting each other on the back, saw and still see black snow. That should be demonstrated by this report, but we do not believe that this has happened. Antonio Vivaldi, who once wrote fantastic music, undoubtedly turns into his grave, because the Vivaldi government confines itself to a false sounding and macabre requiem for the victims. From the start of the crisis, the Flemish Interest for the virus warned. We asked questions about available means of protection, about the transparency and reliability of the Communist dictatorship of China, about the measures to be taken and the measures taken, about the lamentable communication and about the division of powers. In short, as a critical opposition party, we were present in the debate from the outset, now yes, debate. I read in the report that the country could not be prepared for what would come. Other countries weren't either, it's said in secret. The latter is, of course, correct, but it is a very poor consolation for the victims and their families. For the first time, I want to be mild, even after listening to a lot of crap for hours. The second is also partly true. No one could see such a thing coming. However, we were to expect that there would be some preparation. For several years, several bodies have called for a stock of protective material, the notorious mouth mask stock. That stock was once built up, too. Unfortunately, it was not well preserved and eventually destroyed, without being replaced by a new stock. A first mea culpa would certainly be in place here. Because of the lack of personal protective equipment, the government abandoned the people in the first line. Caregivers were sent into the field unprotected, as soldiers to the war, but without weapons. So was the rhetoric: we are at war with the virus. Generals who send their men to the front without weapons will be tried before a tribunal as war criminals after the war. Here it is covered with wretched excuses and the cloak of love. Would the pandemic have gone differently if that strategic stock were there? We don't know that, and we'll never know for sure. What we do know is that the lack of personal protective equipment has facilitated the spread of the virus. The 10,000 deaths of the first wave are certainly partly due to that. Then we are lucky that we were not hit as one of the first countries such as Italy. The mouth mask debacle is also the basis for chaotic communication. It was first said that mouth masks were not useful. They were even ridiculed by our great virologist, as long as there were not enough of course. A few weeks later they became mandatory and they still are in many places. What became clear in the hearings is that the lack of mouth masks was not even communicated. The people around the table, the people who should be managing and controlling the crisis, were not or too late informed of the destruction of the strategic stock, even though the experts and virologists repeatedly asked about it. That's unbelievable, but there's not going to be a mea culpa here either. Our advice is therefore that it is necessary at all times to have a stock of personal protective equipment, medication and medical devices. Another huge problem in the crisis was the lack of any plan. How often did the Flemish Interest stand here asking the Minister to show us the government's plan, and whether they had a plan at all, but yes, one cannot show what is not there. There was no plan. There was no pandemic plan and certainly no plan of action. However, we heard in the hearings that, following the avian flu in 2005, a genuine pandemic flu plan had been drawn up. In 2011-2012, following the outbreak with the MERS virus, even weirdly but where a coronavirus procedure was developed. Both plans were in line with WHO guidelines and recommended that 32 million surgical mouth masks and 6 million FFP2 masks should be fitted. The government had to and would therefore provide a stock of at least 38 million mouth masks. We know how that turned out. In the meantime, we have learned that there was no up-to-date pandemic plan to combat such health crises at the outbreak of the COVID-19 crisis. The necessary updates, despite the repeated request of the Health Administration, were not carried out. The plan was never even adapted to the redistribution of powers after the sixth state reform. However, the strategic and operational aspects could have been developed or refined in temporal non-suspecto, starting from the 2005 flu plan. In September 2019, the FPS Public Health Administration had proposed to the RMG certain modules of a generic pandemic plan, but the further completion was still on the to-do list. The experts of the special committee rightly wondered whether the lack of an updated pandemic plan was due to the institutional slowness associated with such large-scale policy processes, or whether this was due to the priority or not given to the plan and management of infectious diseases in our healthcare system. That is a very valid question for the Flemish interest. Unfortunately, an answer was not given. For us, however, it is clear that in both cases politics has butter on its head. The institutional inertia has been mentioned by the Flemish Interest for years, it is even one of our party's reasons for existence. So tackle institutional slowness or even stagnation with a far-reaching state reform for us, it may even be a state formation and give due attention to infectious diseases. Colleagues, I come to the state structure as a mitigating circumstance. The pasta lovers called it the institutional lasagna and the more carnivals called it institutional confetti, but one thing is for sure, because of the various state reforms the division of powers has become an inconvenient blur. Mrs Merckx, the nine health ministers were rightly pointed out. Unfortunately, it was all too often forgotten that seven of these nine ministers are French speaking excellences. However, both parts of the country went through the same state reforms, with Flanders apparently being able to do it with one minister while French speaking Belgium needs no less than seven excellences. We have to do it. As long as we don't go for the orderly division of this country, we need a homogeneous division of health care. In this way we can transfer all powers to the Communities, as was already foreseen in the 1970 state reform. As a result, there would be three ministers instead of nine, which is already an improvement, but in an orderly division each part of the country needs only one minister. The fact that the state structure of this country makes it difficult to have unity of command is kicking in an open door. However, when proposals are made to do something about them, they are not prevented from doing so in this report. The Flemish interest therefore suggests that Brussels and Wallonia undertake reforms and cuts in the ministerial posts. After all, the current situation does not only cost money, it simply does not work. No one will deny that the fragmentation of healthcare competences leads to inefficiency. An efficient policy that protects the health of our people can only be organised at Flemish or regional level. We are therefore happy to pass on the recommendations in our report to the two ministers responsible for preparing the next state reform. There is not only a fragmentation of powers through the various state reforms; there are 36 advisory and consultation bodies, task forces and working groups, committees and teams. They caused chaos rather than clarity. We have drawn up a number of opinions on this subject. It is necessary to further investigate why the existing expertise, such as Team D5 or the National Crisis Centre, was not called upon. There is no point in developing strategies and then not using them. Call on existing crisis structures, make sure they know their powers, define their role and ensure that they are agile and can take decisions quickly. Avoid the creation of in-depth working groups whose role is unclear and which selection criteria exist for those included in them. A proliferation of task forces and other groups clouds the perspective of the strategy. Align the existing structures so that every facet to tackle a crisis is represented. Colleagues, the Vivaldi report places a rather strong emphasis on the role of the EU. The experts state in their report that the European authorities have missed the opportunity to take the lead in this crisis. However, the Flemish Interest has experienced this differently. Europe has just taken matters for which it was not competent. Because there was no unity, nothing was achieved in the end. A great deal of valuable time was wasted, and in a crisis that is disastrous because fast action is vital. The European Commission has tried to use the pandemic to attract more powers. Moreover, the members of the European Commission do not have any European legitimacy, which means that the Flemish interest is reluctant to transfer more powers to Europe. We are therefore opposed to the direct impact of the European Union on our healthcare policy, which could lead to a European healthcare union. We already see in our own country how Flanders and Wallonia want to pursue different policies, but they cannot. Just think about the medical quotas recently. This results in half-hearted compromises, no one is really responsible, no one is really satisfied and one is paying for the other. We have also seen in the last crisis that the European Union is a bureaucratic mastodon that cannot move quickly. For the Flemish interest, it is still every Member State that should be responsible for health policy. The Member States must have a health policy that they themselves need and that they want. So we are not calling for more European influence in health care or a unified healthcare system within the EU, but rather for more subsidiarity, in order to implement health policies tailored to each region. The European Union also failed in terms of purchasing policy. Due to Europe's slowness, the group purchase of mouth masks failed. The same story was repeated when ordering vaccines. As if that weren't enough, it also went wrong with the syringes and the needles. [[More European Union?]] No, thanks. I have not yet mentioned the WTO, but I shall be very brief about that. As long as the WTO is an extension of the dictatorial Chinese regime, it will not help to give the WTO a stronger mandate. It will only be abused even more by China. This must first be recognised by the current political elite. A pandemic is, of course, an international problem and a global institution can be useful in ensuring global consultation and information. Unfortunately, the WTO is a political instrument that cannot work independently and therefore does not fulfil its necessary role. As long as it is not recognised that the WTO is China's toy, it will be detrimental to rely on that organisation even longer. Another point of concern is the lack of transparency. There was and there is still a lot of demand from the population. The measures must be supported over and over again. For this purpose, the scientific insights and the dates on which they are based, or should at least be based, should be communicated transparently to the public. International studies were published quickly and were public. However, in Belgium there was a great lack of transparency about the dates at the basis of the measures. The media could have played a crucial role there. There is indeed a lot to be said about the role of the media in the crisis. While journalists should be critical of the government, they have become slavish lap dogs. Instead of informing the population and creating a debate between scientists with different ideas, the media follow the line of government and home virologists. The tone of the media is mainly one of scaring and turning people against each other. There was also a lack of transparency on who made the decisions and on the direction of the plans and objectives. However, transparency is fundamental if we are to involve citizens in policy and thus create confidence. If people understand why certain measures are being taken and where they lead, the basis automatically increases. Good communication contributes to transparency. Unfortunately, the Flemish interest has to join in the determination of the experts. I quote: 'The translation of political decisions was left to external experts due to insufficient political leadership'. So it is not a good idea to have experts explain the political decisions in the TV studios. There was also a lack of transparency on the figures. For example, Sciensano refused to give the hospital figures category when the committee asked for them. Finally, there was not only a lack of transparency on the dates or on the decisions and advice of the task forces, but also on the many rushed calls for tenders, contracts and conspiracies raised many unanswered questions. For example, in their report on Coronalert, the experts said: "There is also a lack of transparency and participatory analysis of the computer applications such as the Coronalert app. SMALS' own approach to the development of the digital application has not helped to develop the strategy. The question therefore arises as to why Sciensano and SMALS were the only ones involved in these applications, although academics have exposed the limitations of the system, the population had a bitter lack of confidence in that follow-up and other applications are also possible." All the amendments on transparency were not included in the Vivaldi report. That is why I would like to reiterate our opinion here. Ensure transparency in data, advice, policy, objectives, procurement to both the public and Parliament. Parliament too has been sidelined in the crisis all too often. Because of or because of the corona crisis, many points of pain were revealed or more precisely highlighted, including the lack of hands on the bed, the shortage of beds, and in particular IC beds, the inhuman status of doctors-specialists in training, the perverse hospital funding and the lack of attention to mental health care, so a whole list of pain points and concerns. Many of these problems can be solved by transferring them to the Länder as homogeneous packages. Others require a very thorough reform. Despite all the pains and shortages, caregivers were ready to give and do the best of themselves in impossible circumstances, and do what they always do and do well, namely to take care of sick people. For them and for all the other people who, despite all the blunders of both governments, remain committed, we continue to applaud. We do not applaud the excellence of the Wilmès and Vivaldi governments. We don't have any reason to do that either. We do not applaud Heads of Government who, after a year and a half of crisis, apparently still do not realise that their path is full of blunders due to negligence, irresponsibility and incompetence. We certainly do not applaud Heads of Government who are aware of this and who, after so many deaths, have no sense of guilt. No, we don't applaud so much cowardice. We'd be happy to give you our report. We also advise you to read it. It's more than worth it. Mr Prévot, if you think that the Flemish interest has not worked since the departure from the committee, you should certainly read our bundle. You will see that we have worked very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u144	Minister, it is brave that you follow the whole discussion. It's a pleasure for you. It has been a long discussion, but I am actually satisfied that we are discussing the recommendations quite thoroughly. I hope that those colleagues who were not members of the Covid Committee and those who are policy makers for tomorrow and today have also listened in. What I found very bizarre in the crisis was the lack of attention given to the committee. A colleague has already referred to a broadcast on Flemish television where a bit laughing was asked who knew the President's name and what recommendations the Committee made. That was unearned. Actually, you didn't deserve that. The members of the committee did not deserve that either. Our patients and our caregivers, for whom we have done this work, deserve to know that what is being formulated here, whether we agree with it or not, is getting attention and that the mistakes that have been made are getting attention. We have heard the right people in committee. We have also asked the right critical questions. However, we do not agree on what we have done with this and on whether we have actually got to the bottom of the matter in relation to the recommendations. We do not entirely agree on that. However, we have done our job thoroughly. I fully endorse the speeches made by my colleagues Yngvild and Frieda. I will not concern you again by going through the full range of recommendations. However, I would like to highlight four points which, as far as we are concerned, are really flaws, which this committee could and should have taken with it. Firstly, there is the democratic check. It has still not been incorporated into this report. Secondly, there is the institutional one, because we do not go far enough. I'll come back to that later. Thirdly, there is the refusal of purple-green to analyse the federal organisations on which health care is based on the substance. And fourthly, there are the responsibilities. A great deal has been said about this today. There has been talk of ministers in France getting searches and resigning. It has also been said that we have actually seen the reverse movement here. Ministers who have really failed to do their work thoroughly have been promoted to group leader, foreign minister or expert. Name it, we all got it. That is something that we have yet to work on. When we return to the beginning of the committee work, I will never forget that one of the experts said: 'C'était la débrouille'. That was also the feeling that we all had, the doctors and the caregivers had to work out their plan. They have taken on their responsibilities and they have made their plan. I have already mentioned the taking of responsibilities with regard to the ministers, but I would also like to discuss our group. The discussion began about five hours ago about the fact that certain parties went on and that other parties stopped. The N-VA Group has really taken up its responsibilities. We have done so with a very conscious choice. The President will undoubtedly agree with me. At some point the mistake was made that Vivaldi recommendations were brought to committee and that the game of opposition and majority would be played openly. Then we shut down the committee and the N-VA Group raised that this was not possible. We had been through all the hearings and had been critical. Suddenly, however, a game would be played with decisions taken in Parliament's back room against our findings. So we would face each other, which would not go forward. We then shut down the committee and took our responsibility. We've been working together. Working together is what the N-VA wants and needs to do and what we promise our voters and citizens. We have recommendations today and we want to translate them into actions. We'd like to do that now, not in four years. I am talking about the institutional part. We're not gonna spin and talk for another four years. No, our motion contains very implementable examples of actions. We want to present this motion, with which we want to help all our care providers tomorrow. That's the democratic check. It was said here that communication was a problem. You may recall the statement that no movement is allowed. I still don't know what that's like. I got a call once because my car wasn't moving. I got a fine then and they were dragging him away. Those are things that we should not really be confronted with. Even more important is that we seek support in our communication. If we want to create a basis for support through communication, we must first and foremost have a parliamentary debate. We haven't had enough of that around here. You all remember the debates in the Netherlands about curfew. There were hours of debate and then that resulted in a difference of half an hour. That's where we need to go. If we are to impose restrictions on freedom on our citizens, we must at least be able to indicate that this has been considered and debated. Any elected politician should be able to think about that. Another democratic check that has not been stopped but which is in our motion is the fact that although it is seen that the threat is stagnating and the pandemic is coming at a certain stage, the government should not come to Parliament to say that the threat is less serious and that we could do certain interventions. It would then be possible to determine what prospects and prospects we want to give the citizens. I find it very special that this has not been stopped by the majority. If we all return to the beginning of the second wave, we must establish that it has gone wrong through communication. Our citizens were no longer with us. They wanted to go outside, they wanted to celebrate and were not involved in the democratic debate. We still do not have that check in the recommendations for the vote today. Furthermore, I would very much like to enter into the institutional debate. If my party is in favour of a Flemish health care system, which we often do, and in our view very rightly so, it is not, of course, motivated by some sort of nostalgic separatism, as is claimed here. No, then that is well founded and we are well aware of why we are arguing in favour of it. Let me give you some examples. Firstly, most of the colleagues who have the mouths of homogeneous packages of competence once approved the Butterfly Agreement. I challenge you to find one N-VA who has once argued for the fact that a syringe is federally repaid, but Flemishly administered, and that the patient, if not successful, needs to go to a federal hospital. You won't find it, there isn't. The N-VA already advocates consistent, homogeneous powers at one level, the Flemish. If you want homogeneous power packages again, you will have to reduce the decisions you have carried out and made. The two democracies, countries and cultures I have just mentioned, are clearly visible in public health. The Walloon patient goes to the emergency room, the Flemish patient goes to the doctor. Mrs Merckx's proposal on free consultation with the general practitioner does not refer to the link between the measure and the global medical file. It is its right not to demand this, but that is a Community fact: the Fleming opts for a global medical file with the general practitioner, while the Waal chooses the urgency. Our colleague from DéFI has just set a good example of prevention being a regional competence, while the treatment is a federal competence. Well, in prevention we absolutely must pursue regional health objectives, according to the latest health report. After all, the diseases that pose the greatest danger vary according to the population. So one has to opt for tailor-made health care and in one region, for example, more screening for colon cancer and for cardiovascular diseases in the other. These differences have been proven and described in the report. Of course, both a Waal and a Fleming can get one and the other disease, but there is a difference in incidence. If we are to have an effective health policy, we must also be effective in preventing it. We need to invest efficiently and use our resources to the full. The best example is vaccination - I suspect that we will have a nice discussion about patents and about our vision about them later. There's a plea for federal jurisdiction. Yes, the purchase of the vaccines has been federal and we have all seen what the result was: delays and contracts that led to legal disputes. Once the vaccines were available, they were rolled out and also there we saw significant differences between Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, each with its own culture. Since March, April, we have advocated that Brussels, like Wallonia, should be more committed to target-group communication in order to convince its inhabitants to be vaccinated. Once again today we see that we are returning to freedom at a different pace. The Flemings are convinced of the usefulness of the vaccination. We are convinced that vaccination is the gateway to freedom. If another community is less convinced of that, it is possible, but today we are bearing the consequences. Regional health care is therefore well founded. I can give you a lot of examples. The discussions between colleagues in the government are particularly interesting. The autumn will also be very interesting. After all, it is clear that everyone has a different opinion. The bottom line, as I said on 1 October last year, is that the coalition agreement was not discussed and that it is so vague, because it is not an agreement. Those who want a tailor-made health care certainly have a partner to us. However, in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal, we ask that we move forward and not continue to talk in order to conclude once again in four years' time that we need to talk again. That's what we'd like to warn you about. As for the in-depth analysis and the external audits, we were truly world famous for the fact that suddenly there were no more mouth masks and that was not communicated to the experts. Colleagues pointed out that at the beginning there was no consensus on wearing the mouth masks. You forgot to mention that there was a lot of discussion in the expert group and that one of them had bought FFP2 masks for her services, because the scientific advice was not followed. I also found the passage on the central purchasing system special; I have said it a few times already. A central purchasing system for personal protective equipment is therefore recommended here with the approval of the liberal parties. One forgets, however, that the discussion between two federal services, namely the FPS Public Health and the FPS Finance, has taken much longer for the SMEs, the industrial and textile companies, who have had to work so hard to survive, who wanted to contribute to the strategic autonomy in the field, to which we really need, and were in the process of converting to make mouth masks for the local population, could start production. Today it was decided that the corona aid would be extended, but much more important than keeping companies on government infusion had been to ensure that they could reorientate themselves, that they could produce mouth masks. It is therefore a pity that the amendment on fiscal equalization was not adopted. Then I come to the analysis of the FPS Health, the FAGG and Sciensano. The director of the FPS is still on sick leave and apparently didn't function well either. Mr Minister, I do not understand why you did not participate in the in-depth analysis of this, because before you start anything new, it is important that we examine it. Mrs Jiroflée spoke of strong organisations. One can only make an organization strong if one knows what the problems are. As far as the FAGG is concerned, reference has already been made to the syringes. A forgotten signature that didn't bring vaccines to our country is not nothing. That is just taking responsibility, ensuring sustainable solutions. There is a small fragment about the care and more hands on the bed, but that does not go far enough because there are not enough growth possibilities. A new feature of this week that is not taken into account in the recommendations is the fact that the Health Care Staff Fund, which is so often referred to, with the additional resources for care, is not actually being evaluated. In the committee, the Minister made it very clear that it is not possible to check whether these additional resources, amounting to around EUR 1 billion in total, have actually created net jobs. How can we talk about extra hands on the bed if we do not keep track of how many extra net jobs the Health Care Staff Fund has provided and another EUR 600 million through the IF-IC? Nor is it checked whether the people who may be recruited are not used for administrative tasks. We hear from the people in the sector that there is a far too thick middle framework of nurses and that there are far too few nurses who can take care of the patient. That is also one of the main causes of the failure, and that should have been taken into account. An external audit is something the N-VA absolutely supports. Then there are the responsibilities. It is, of course, easy for the majority MEPs to state that the gallows must not be lifted, that there must be no witch hunt for ministers who have not taken up their duties and who have not shown the leadership that is expected of them. It is also very easy to hit somewhat mea culpa. Minister De Block has indeed struck somewhat mea culpa. She said that strategic stock should have been renewed. However, we have not been hit further. What about the nonchalance of the beginning of the crisis, laughing with the care providers, not exploring how to run a public tender in times of crisis? My colleague has just referred to the local authorities who have done a great job. Those local authorities knew earlier that an order of mouth masks could be paid in advance in times of crisis, for the FPS Public Health and the cabinet of Minister De Block. An entire army of staff from a certain department had not been able to figure out how to order mouth masks effectively. We have heard a lot about efficiency, about communication and about the psychological consequences. It was almost touching how certain colleagues did their best to get rid of it by saying that it was all not so bad and that we didn't do so bad at all. Minister De Block also said this when she discussed the WHO report. I have also heard prominent members of the Green Group say that. This summer I interviewed a lot of people from the broad society, from the man in the street to the care provider and the manager. In those interviews I heard an older lady say that she and her husband were walking on the street and she held his arm because she was afraid to fall. When they met the police, he said she couldn't hold her husband's arm. That's when I was wondering where the government was. When I interviewed nurses at the I.A., who said they had stopped and asked for a transfer, like half their shift, I knew it wasn't right. I also interviewed a GP who said he'd learned that you'd better do everything yourself because there wasn't a government there for them anyway. He joked that he had crowned himself a covid pope because he himself had figured out what it was like. If I put all these interviews and testimonies together, I know that the resilience of society was much greater than that of politics. We can write recommendations here and we have all done our best, both you and us. However, without resilience and without will, we will not get there and we will not find an answer. This report is not the answer. That is why we will not approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also begin by thanking all those who contributed to the report, first and foremost those who have given me confidence as chairman of the special committee. After all, I realized that I had something to prove when I took on that role. One of the conditions I had laid down was that I could play my role independently. I would therefore like to thank my former colleague, Mr Delvaux, and later Mr Pillen, who represented my party in committee, which enabled me to fulfil my independent role. Mrs Pas, it is therefore not correct for you to compare me with a windshield. With those words, you are committing enormous violence against the truth. A number of Members have referred to our working methods in committee. In particular, the fact that the majority parties have written the recommendations together caused a stir in the opposition. Next time, I would undoubtedly do it in a different way. However, we have also corrected that mistake. On the basis of the proposals made by all the political groups, the majority and the opposition, I myself made text proposals which I feel could be supported by a majority. Colleagues, that was indeed to my liking. However, we later held an open debate on the texts in committee. Proposals were kept, proposals were deleted and proposals from the opposition were added. I'll say more. From the opposition very valuable input has been given. So the absentees were wrong. The parties that have remained and taken responsibility have also stated here a number of times that there has been good cooperation. Mrs Pas, you have tried to turn it into a game of majority opposition. However, that was not possible. You've gambled and you've lost. I understand that not everyone is satisfied with the final report. This also makes sense in a democracy, where such a report will be voted on. I was hoping for a consensus. I guess I still can't count on that. There was no doubt that a different view had to be put up about the functioning of the committee. But the truth also has its rights. Does a committee in Parliament have a social purpose if a panel does not know the name of the chairman? That question was indeed put two weeks ago in The Appointment. Mrs Fonck and Mrs Depoorter have already referred to this. As a member of the special committee, I was surprised, as I walked out the same day with a report containing 135 relevant recommendations. Those who lead the committee do not have that much relevance, as long as the result is there and can be presented in plenary. These 135 recommendations should lead the federal government towards a better policy and greater readiness for future crises, although in all media silence it is likely to escape the attention of many people. However, the final report, the recommendations and the in-depth discussion points deserve attention and follow-up. Supposing nothing happened on the covid committee is incorrect. The covid committee worked hard and delivered results. Those are not my words, but those of a colleague, member of the opposition, of Mrs Depoorter, but they could also come from me, and that indicates that majority and opposition have indeed worked constructively together. Mrs Pas, you just mentioned the report prepared by the Flemish Interest. Your colleague Sneppe also gave it to the Minister and to Mr Prévot. I've already read it. It's on your website and I found it my job as chairman of the special committee to read it. I think that the main purpose of this report is to prepare us for a next corona crisis and that many recommendations are useless in many situations. More than that, I do not believe your report, because it contains a lot of things that actually say the opposite of what you are doing. I'll take one as an example. One of your recommendations is that a government should also listen to the warnings of science in a non-pandemic time. Allow me to find this unbelievable when I see that the scientists on Twitter are constantly being attacked and you are talking, among other things, about chief virologist. The committee did what it had to do. We must not deny that the corona crisis has caused a great deal of suffering. The crisis has put a lot of people not only in healthcare but also in other sectors under enormous pressure. The committee has made a thorough analysis of what can be done better in the event of a subsequent crisis. That was a very difficult task. After all, soon the pitfall lurked around the corner that we would prepare for another corona crisis. I therefore welcome our more generic assessment, which should prepare us as well as possible for a crisis that is almost certain to come and which may pose challenges other than the current crisis. Another trap was that we would evaluate on the basis of today's knowledge and at the time of the decisions at that time. There have been several references to the destruction of the strategic stock of mouth masks. It was destroyed because the stock had expired. More than that, most of it was totally unusable. Those who have looked at the thousands of documents have been able to see that for themselves. It's based on that data that the stock was destroyed. However, it was also wrong to destroy it before a new stock had been made. That is what the former Health Minister himself said at her hearing. The recommendations contain all the elements to ensure that a subsequent crisis can be better prepared than the corona crisis and better addressed and that more can be learned from it. Anyone who is only interested in avoiding the next covid crisis may be disappointed. Indeed, the recommendations go much wider than what we all know in the meantime. Mrs Gijbels and a number of other colleagues reminded us that in recent months they have repeatedly asked for the committee to be transformed into a committee of inquiry. That question was repeated today. A very clear agreement was made at the start of the committee. If it appeared that we did not receive the necessary information or if those involved refused to communicate information at their disposal, the committee could be transformed into a committee of inquiry. The truth is that we have received a lot of documents from the administrations and former ministers. There were almost 30,000 of them, all of them documents that we also requested. Many officials have spent their summer holiday 2020 on this. During the hearings it was thought that many colleagues had not or hardly looked at these documents. Occasionally there were discussions about transparency. For example, some people found the policy on vaccine contracts a mess and preferred to have their own tender instead of participating in the European tender. Today we know better. By the way, the N-VA was a matter of urgency - not in the Flemish Parliament itself a questioning party to a committee of inquiry. I could quote Mr Vandaele's arguments, but I will not do so because it is late at night. You can certainly check the text as well. I thought he had good arguments and share his analysis, even today. We have been able to do a thorough job and I still doubt today whether we could have done so much better with a committee of inquiry. I also consider all the victims of the crisis and their relatives. Many colleagues have already done so, and I think that is only right. Often they didn't have to say goodbye in a dignified way. Furthermore, there are those who have become infected and today, months later, still suffer the consequences of the infection, such as a member of our committee. I would especially like to thank the people in the care sector. They have delivered incredible achievements, every day, in difficult circumstances, without much knowledge and experience. Let's never forget that. Of course, the list is far from complete, because many people in all kinds of sectors and roles had to reinvent themselves and have done so with a lot of resilience. However, the toll is heavy and the impact is large. My special thanks also go to the staff of the Chamber, to the colleagues and to the staff of the political groups, to the experts who have assisted us and to everyone who has come to our committee to testify, sometimes for hours. They did it anyway. Madam President, I will conclude. I believe that we have produced very good recommendations, majority and opposition together, very concrete recommendations that are also feasible. That is why I tabled a motion, together with the majority of my fellow Members, on which I would like to ask for the vote today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u146	You referred earlier to what I said about the Committee of Inquiry. I have just added the statute because I remembered something other than what you mentioned. It says: "If the special committee finds it difficult to carry out its tasks, its work will continue at all times by a parliamentary committee of inquiry." Those difficulties have indeed been there. It also says: "Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, the functioning and statute of the committee will be reviewed in the course of the discussion of the committee report. In this context, it will be examined to what extent the work could possibly be continued by a parliamentary committee of inquiry." In this context, we have found, together with you, that a lot of yards have not been sufficiently investigated, which means that we are unable to draw sufficient conclusions and to make appropriate recommendations. It is in that context that we again made our request to you to go along with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u147	I would like to replicate very briefly. The only recommendation that our committee chairman draws from our report - it is to his credit that he has read it - is that the government should also listen to warnings from science in non-crisis times. You confuse that with listening to what one scientist says when you see a contradiction in that. What we are suing in our report is the one-sidedness with which one voice is listened to, while other scientists - the Sam Brokens of this world - cannot be listened to. That was an essential point in our report, but you clearly misunderstood it. A second element is that nobody here has given an explanation for the sudden change of opinion and has not started with a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I gave the quotes during my interventions. In spring, everyone was convinced that this was the only good cure. However, they have not dared to do so, and you are now saying that you are not sure that we could have done the work more thoroughly. I can tell you that I have already seen two parliamentary committees of inquiry. I am absolutely certain that we could have done the work much more thoroughly with the powers of a investigating judge and with the task of also identifying political responsibilities. As I have not received a statement from anyone today, I will give you the statement that I believe is behind it. In the spring, when there was no definitive government in the saddle, everyone was a great supporter of investigations to the bone. It was one of the reasons in the media to get this government in the saddle. Once that government was in the saddle, however, should there be absolutely no parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the responsibilities, precisely to keep that government in the saddle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this long substantive debate, which I have followed with great interest, I would like to speak briefly on behalf of the Prime Minister and the government. The fact that we are still meeting in a smaller committee today is a good illustration of how, over the past year and a half, this crisis has upset our lives. We are still facing an unprecedented health crisis. The stable figures of coronavirus and the success of vaccination are, of course, very encouraging elements on which we can now rely. Many restrictions have now been lifted. It's unexpected. However, let us go back a little and remember the heavy toll of human lives paid in our country. Behind these statistics are people who have lost a family member or a friend, lives to which this terrible virus has suddenly ended. The list of people directly and indirectly affected by covid-19 is even longer. There are those who have contracted the disease and still feel the consequences today. There are also the many people who have had to fundamentally change their way of life because of the necessary measures. Let us also consider the economic consequences that this has brought and the psychological impact that your report rightly pins on. In view of these events, it is logical that the Court has decided to set up a special committee with a broad mandate rather quickly, which, however, in its recommendations also takes account of the necessary aspects of the future. Your recommendations underline the importance of a robust health system and a good preparation with a permanently updated pandemic plan. It calls for lessons to be drawn on crisis management in the federal phase of a pandemic, with a specific focus on the European and international dimension. The fact that Parliament has carried out numerous hearings and other initiatives to gather information also reflects the efforts and sacrifices made by so many in our society in the fight against the virus. The women and men in white are mostly anonymous heroes in the crisis. They deserve our eternal thanks and appreciation. This applies equally to all caregivers, law enforcement officers, teachers, educators, volunteers and all the others I may forget to mention now. On reading the report, which was adopted by a fairly large majority in committee, it can be concluded that Parliament has fulfilled its monitoring task. The detailed report and its many annexes contain a wealth of information and avenues for improvement. Your report also does not ignore the shortcomings detected. The magnitude and complexity of the challenge posed by this crisis have put a severe strain on our governance system. The fact that other parliamentary assemblies have also examined the actions of their respective governments demonstrates the multidisciplinary nature of this crisis. The Prime Minister and the government see this report as an essential milestone. It is for us an invitation to action and an encouragement. It will be up to the functionally competent members of the government to work towards the implementation of the concrete recommendations. On behalf of the Prime Minister and the ministers concerned, I can now promise you that by 15 March 2022, and each year thereafter, we will report on the status of implementation of these recommendations. For this reason, we do not comment on or anticipate the individual recommendations in this debate. The government itself has already decided to ask a number of bodies, such as the National Crisis Centre and the Coronac Commissioner, to come forward with additional proposals to improve crisis management in our country. The evaluation is not only limited to the corona crisis, but will also have to learn from the experience of last summer's unprecedented floods. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the members of the committee chaired by Robby De Caluwé very much for the work that has been done. This thanks goes, of course, also to all the experts and speakers, as well as to the political collaborators and officials who, behind the scenes, supported the committee. Madam President, we all have a responsibility now to work on this report in the interests of the health of all of us and to make the country even more resilient in future crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u149	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip124x.u150	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled: - a first motion was tabled by Ms Kathleen Depoorter, Ms Frieda Gijbels and Ms Yngvild Ingels; - a second motion was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a third motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi; - a fourth motion was tabled by Messrs. Robby De Caluwé and Patrick Prévot and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Laurence H annoyée, Nawal Farih, Karin Jiroflée and Barbara Creemers. At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled: - a first motion was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter, Mrs Frieda Gijbels and Mrs Yngvild Ingels; - a second motion was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a third motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi A fourth motion was tabled by Mr Robby De Caluwé and Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Mr Laurence Hennuy, Mr Nawal Farih, Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Barbara Creemers. These motions have been incorporated into document No. 1394/3. The vote on these motions will take place at a later date. These motions were made in part No. 1394/3 inserted. The vote on these motions will take place later. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 September 2021 at 10.37 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, September 23, 2021 at 10:37 p.m.
