ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u1	Welcome to everyone. We will begin an oral question-and-answer session with Mrs Schlitz. Welcome, Madam Secretary of State. I ask everyone to respect the Rules of Procedure: two minutes per question and two minutes of reply in the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I saw that you were arguing to get a better view of the pay gap through anonymous data. You want stricter legislation to close the gender pay gap. No one can argue with that. If there is no equal pay for equal work, then we have a clear discrimination, and it must of course come out. However, the debate is more complex than that. Sometimes you have to have the courage to look at the underlying causes. Scientific studies show that there is a difference in working time. Women work part-time rather than full-time. The sector, the position and the difference in seniority also play a role in the difference in remuneration. Rather, it is those factors that play a role rather than direct discrimination or violation of the principle of equal pay for equal work. The bottom of the job pyramid does require our attention, I agree. Women must be given the opportunity to live independently. In any case, the factors I appointed must be taken into account in the thinking exercise. In what way do you intend to tighten up the legislation? Are you sufficiently aware of the underlying causes of the pay gap? Isn't it all a little too black and white? Are you aware that the expected result will not only be achieved through legislation and sanctions, but also through preventive action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u3	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, two days ago, on 8 March, International Women's Day was a day on which women came out for more equality. We have to note that the pay gap is still very large, and in 2018 it was still 23%. We also fear that the corona crisis is not doing us any good and that the gap is likely to widen. What are the reasons why the pay gap is so large? Firstly, we note that women mainly work in sectors that pay less well, such as care, cleaning and distribution. Those people worked hard during the corona crisis, but they weren't very well paid. Secondly, we also note that women still account for most of the household work and care for children. Women spend nine hours a week more on domestic tasks than men. So there is still a lot of work to be done in this area too. There needs to be more affordable public childcare and better provision for women. Thirdly, because of a still painful reality in the labour market, women are still stuck to the floor, where the lowest jobs are in the sector, even if they have qualifications for a higher position. Madam Secretary of State, what will you do to close the gender gap? How will you ensure that men and women are not only equal before the law, but that there is also socio-economic equality between men and women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u4	Mrs Vindevoghel, you also stayed within the speaking time. I hope that everyone will stick to that today, given the busy agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, this year, 8 March, International Day of Struggle for Women's Rights, takes place in special circumstances. The health crisis has exacerbated gender inequalities from any point of view, but one aspect of these inequalities is the precariousness of employment. I would therefore like to refer to a few points on the state of the matter in Belgium. The work remains largely genré. Women are mainly active in health care, social work, education and commerce. In Belgium, 40 per cent of women in the health, social and education sectors compared with only 11 per cent of men. Furthermore, it should be noted that the more women in one sector, the lower the wages in this sector. Of course, during the health crisis, women were particularly exposed to the virus in front-line jobs. Working time is a second facet. Women work largely part-time: 43.6 per cent of employed women work part-time, for only less than 12 per cent of men. The wage gap also remains a reality. On average, women earn an hourly wage of 5.8 per cent lower than men, but the gross wage gap remains close to 24 per cent. Finally, women spend 1h30 more unpaid work per day than men. These tasks obviously exploded during the covid-19, which made them more difficult to cope with their job tasks. It should be pointed out here that occupational issues are obviously increasing for certain types of women: women with disabilities, in situations of great insecurity, undocumented women, etc. Your general policy statement and policy guidance document cite several levers to effectively address inequalities at work: enhancing the effectiveness of the Wage Gap Act 2012, increasing the number of women on corporate boards of directors, and strengthening parental leave. Madam Secretary of State, what concrete avenues will you follow in the coming weeks to respond, together with your government colleagues, to the issues related to the precarious employment of women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u6	Mr President, Secretary of State, the pay gap report of the Institute for Gender Equality was first published in 2007. In 2007, for the first time, the pay gap was demonstrated in black and white, the first action was taken around it and initiatives were taken around it for the first time. We are 2021 and women still earn 23 % less than men. This is a slight decrease compared to the year before. That is good, but every year is an additional year of inequality for women and of accumulated backwardness in their careers. The Institute believes that more wage transparency is needed. The report even states that the right to privacy over the right to transparency should be questioned when it comes to pay. After all, transparency about pay can be a great weapon in the fight against wage discrimination. The report also makes a number of other recommendations, such as the need to pay extra attention to getting more women into work, regardless of pay. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following simple questions. Will you work with your colleague at Werk Dermagne on these recommendations? The Government Agreement provides for additional measures to make the Law of 22 April 2012 to address the wage gap more effective. After all, people often hear that this is not always obvious. Have you taken any concrete initiatives in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u7	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Standard of 3 March headlined in an article entitled "More transparency should help to close pay gaps." The newspaper referred to the European Commission's initiative to promote binding measures on pay transparency. It is reported that there is a directive on this at European level. That is good news, because the European Trade Union Confederation, which also includes the Belgian trade unions, has been working for a long time. So far, it is up to women themselves to find out and show that they are paid less than their male colleagues who do the same work. The directive could change that. Full pay transparency within companies and sectors can really make the pay gap visible. It is much easier to solve a problem if one has real insight into it. Moreover, the current proposal of the European Commission places the burden of proof on employers and must therefore demonstrate that there is no pay gap in their company. Like the trade unions, of course, we want this directive to be introduced today rather than tomorrow. My question to you, Madam Secretary of State, is therefore whether you, together with the rest of the government, intend to exert pressure through the Council of the EU to ensure that this directive is implemented. How do you expect to do that? My next question is also about the pay gap, Madam Secretary of State. In your 2021 policy paper, I read that this year you want to bring into force the law to combat the pay gap. That's a useful exercise. However, the problem does not seem to me to be so much a matter for the law itself. It is mainly in the implementation of that law that a great deal of progress can still be made. We need action plans and implementing decisions to make this law work, and they are still largely lacking today. Let me give you an example from the aviation sector. The flight crew has a basic wage that is just the minimum wage. However, they do get a lot of premiums. That means when they're pregnant, they're all gone. Men can't get pregnant, women can. In any case, this means that the scheme is discriminatory against women. Now that, during the corona crisis, huge groups are technically unemployed, you can imagine what low wages these people now have to live on. In fact, they all live in poverty because their basic wage is so low and the contributions do not count for the calculation of their unemployment benefit. This is a concrete example of the pay gap, which is still very large. We see that premiums are often detrimental, because during the period when women are pregnant they do not receive these premiums. What will you do to address the pay gap effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men recently published a report on the wage gap in Belgium. This shows a slight downward trend. We're on the right track, but there's still work to be done. According to this report, in 2018, the wage gap between women and men, based on annual gross wages and all sectors combined, was 9.2%. More specifically, it amounts to 12.7% in the private sector and 5.2% in the public sector. On the other hand, it would appear that the wage gap increases considerably when extra-legal benefits (additional pension, home-to-work allowances, etc.) are taken into account. Women benefit less from these benefits and, when they are entitled to them, the amounts collected are lower. On the basis of their proportion of the total number of workers and taking into account the fact that they work more frequently part-time than men, all women combined should have earned an additional EUR 3.274 billion in 2018. It's huge. Madam Secretary of State, how do you explain this slight downward trend in the wage gap? What measures have you put in place since the beginning of your mandate to move in this direction? How do you explain that women have less access to extra-legal benefits? In its report, the Institute makes several recommendations to reduce this wage gap. What do you think? How do you think they could be implemented? As you know, my group was at the initiative of the Act of 22 April 2012 to combat the wage gap between men and women. How do you think this law could be further strengthened?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u9	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I will confine myself to the essence, because much has already been said. In the previous legislature, we have already adopted a resolution on gender and employment. We were also talking about the pay gap. Meanwhile, there is a new report from the Institute and there is also a directive from the European Commission on this matter. The code word here is transparency. The European directive goes quite far in this respect. For example, the burden of proof is reversed: employers will have to prove why there is a pay gap between men and women. Compensation will also have to be provided for disputes and job vacancies will have to provide wage information. These measures go far beyond the wage gap law in Belgium, and that is also necessary, because in fact only 50% of the reasons why there is a difference between men's and women's wages can be explained. These reasons have already been mentioned: they relate to the sector of employment, nationality, family composition, occupation, type of contract, level of training, seniority and marital status. However, this means that 50 % is not explainable. That is the famous glass ceiling, the cardboard floor or whatever one wants to call it. We must fight that. We cannot accept that a woman, based on her gender, should receive a wage different from a man, without objective, explanatory indicators, which is why I ask you how you will amend the wage gap law. You announced that in your policy paper and policy statement, and it is also in the government agreement. I have specific questions on this. In what way will you achieve the adjustment? Where are you on the evaluation of quotas for listed companies and public companies? In what way will you change legislation towards 40% representation of the opposite sex in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u10	Mrs Schlitz, I give you the floor. I'll give you ten minutes since there are ten questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u11	Thank you for your questions on this important subject. On 4 March, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men published a new wage gap report, which also discussed in detail the underlying causes of the pay gap. Explain all known factors together (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u12	I take advantage of this small technical problem to remind you and all members that it is advisable to wear a headset with microphone in order to facilitate the work of translators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u13	Mr President, I have changed my computer and it seems that I am less heard, and I would be grateful if you would excuse me. Overall, as measured across the Belgian economy, a woman earns an average of 9.2 % less than a man if adjusted for working hours. This represents a slight decrease compared to the previous year. So, compared to many other countries, Belgium has a relatively small wage gap. Still, it's gotta be better. Gender equality in the labour market is an essential condition for giving women and men equal opportunities and allowing them to be financially independent. The increase in the employment rate of women, and in particular those who are most disadvantaged, is a necessity in order to achieve the Belgian and European employment rate targets by 2030. But this increase in the employment rate must go hand in hand with an improvement in the quality of certain jobs, their upgrading and a reduction in the wage gap. Action must also be taken to enable women working part-time to increase their working time, if they so wish. The 2021 report of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men – many of whom you have mentioned and which concerns the wage gap – highlights the particularly difficult situation experienced by some women who work in occupational categories which are essential to the functioning of society, but which are very poorly paid. These women are also most often employed on a part-time basis. There is an urgent need to upgrade these jobs and sectors. Today, our function classification system compares functions and thus compares wages within the same sector. The future challenge in reducing the wage gap will be to move towards more equality between sectors. In concrete terms, I would like a debate to be launched on the principle of equal pay for work of equal value, regardless of the sector. As far as your questions concerning the law of 22 April 2012 are concerned, in my view, there are three concrete priorities. Firstly, optimising remuneration ratios within companies. Today, these tools are under-used by companies in part because they are too complex. However, they could bring real added value in the fight against the wage gap within companies. Secondly, improving the statistical data provided by enterprises is a priority. Today, one out of four social audits is not completed or is filled in incorrectly. In order to better understand the problem of the wage gap within companies, correct and comprehensive data are needed. One way would be to strengthen the role of the National Bank in monitoring social balance sheets. Finally, the question of sanctions must be raised in the event of non-compliance with the law. The Equal Pay Act 2012 does not provide for any real sanction. However, as we have seen with the Quota Act, proportionate sanctions are necessary to achieve an objective. Pay transparency is also a key issue. The European Commission, as many of you have mentioned, has just tabled an initiative for wage transparency. My objective is that the debate on the 2012 revision of the Belgian law should take this dimension more into account and I hope that Belgium will commit itself at European level to supporting this initiative. Unfortunately, the pandemic exacerbated existing inequalities. Women and the most vulnerable were the most affected. Their financial situation has often deteriorated. With my relance project, I would therefore like to set up specific actions to promote equality between women and men in the labour market. This project will include the development of training, awareness-raising tools and tools to support vulnerable women in the labour market. We want to start with concrete projects on the ground. The results collected will also be integrated into the Institute for Gender Equality's database of good practice. The results will be available to all those in need of support for gender equality in the labour market, but also to those seeking information or inspiration. Finally, a better employment rate for women also requires more equality in the private sphere. Longer birth leave is a major step forward to allow fathers and co-parents to get involved when the child is born. The possibility of making it mandatory must also be assessed. More broadly, it is the whole system of leave that needs to be better distributed between men and women. That is why I would like to reflect with my colleague from Employment on the leave system in order to encourage fathers or co-mamans to use it. Thank you all for your interest in this crucial issue of the wage gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, most of the things you say are certainly logical and certain to be accepted. You are right to say that better or more appropriate remuneration for certain sectors would actually solve a great deal. It doesn't matter whether men or women are working here. It is clear, of course, that a new weighting of wages is sometimes needed for the services and care sectors. This will, of course, have an impact on women in particular. In the debate on this subject, I always miss the differentiation on equality between men and women. On the one hand, we can look at the companies that have to give equal pay, there is no discussion. On the other hand, we can also look at certain communities in our society that do not even allow women to go to work. That remains a pressing problem in this whole discussion. You didn't talk about that. That's too bad. After all, we must also respond to this. From a social point of view, we have evolved strongly in recent decades towards equality between men and women, but not everyone is in that story. The groups can be distilled from them and can then be approached separately. Thank you for your answer, however, there were certainly useful things in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, you are of good will and have a great deal of good intentions, but the situation is serious. As long as there is socio-economic inequality, the situation for women will not be okay. That is why the female sectors and professions urgently need upgrading, with more full-time jobs, better working conditions, full and secure statutes, but above all higher wages. We have long been asking for the minimum gross wage to be increased to EUR 14 per hour, or EUR 2,300 per month. If we could get this, it would be a good signal. You are giving paternity leave, and we think it is important. That is a step, but not enough for us. In practice, it is often difficult for daddies to take that leave because it is not now mandatory. That should be mandatory. It should also be treated as maternity leave and thus increased to 15 weeks. It must be granted automatically, while maintaining the wage. In countries where this is the case, there is much more division of work. There should also be more affordable and public childcare places. I hear that from a lot of people. If you have a low wage and child care is expensive, you sometimes have to make difficult choices. Women often stop working. Parental leave must be further upgraded for us, while maintaining wages, because caring for children is also hard work. I would also like to comment briefly on the discussion on the wage standard, which is being held by the trade unions. They want the standard of pay to be cancelled. I believe that there is a gender dimension to this too, because if the wage standard remains at 0.4%, companies will move to premiums and, as I have said, they will be at the disadvantage of women. That is why we believe that the wage standard should be lifted. In view of the gender dimension, wages should be raised. We must not give rise to all kinds of premiums. You also said that you want to work for transparency. It is a good thing that we are effectively adopting Europe's proposal. That salary transparency needs to be put in place. That would be a very important step forward for women. So there's still a lot of work to be done. We will certainly support all the proposals that go towards reducing the pay gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u16	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You have actually mentioned the central levers: rethinking equality between sectors, improving the data on corporate social balance sheets, considering sanctions, supporting transparency, reviewing leave systems, etc. These are all the projects that need to be tackled. I would like to stress that without sanctions, bringing the private sector towards the reflex of equality will be very complicated. In the public sector, it is already difficult to achieve results, but in the private sector, where there is less leverage, sanctions will have to be imposed. In the 21st century, we can no longer accept that we should always have to fight for equal pay and equality in the face of employment. You have our full support for what you will put in place. We're waiting for the first returns quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, you have raised a number of points, and if you will allow me, I would like to look at two more closely. Birth leave is a measure on which we are very enthusiastic, yet we see that it is not taken up enough, often by the daddies. This is not a good thing for a family life, for the mental well-being of the individual and for our society. In this sense, we believe that something must be done to ensure that birth leave is taken at least. I am not talking about extending it, which can indeed be considered, but about at least including it. That is something that needs to be given a lot of attention. I am not saying at the moment that we must make it compulsory, even if we can think about it. However, if it is not compulsory, other measures will have to be taken, particularly with regard to employers. These measures should ensure that maternity leave is taken up and families can earn both their living and their children in a calm manner. The second aspect I would like to mention is what you started with. You said 'adjusted with working time the wage gap is 9%'. That 9% is indeed pure discrimination, but the other is hidden discrimination. We will also have to work very hard on this. The fact that women always have a shorter career, that the least paid jobs are for them, and that the worst statutes, in which one has to work part-time, are very specific to women, is a great, hidden discrimination. It's like the most disadvantaged women who are the victims of it. We must ensure that more women have a covenantable status and that more women enter the labour market, that more women work outside the home. These are yards that we must tackle in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, the pay gap is very complex, depending on how one looks at it. You have cited many elements. I am pleased that you are also linking a better quality of jobs to the 2030 employment rate and tackling the pay gap. Wage transparency is a very important lever in the pay gap law, but then, of course, something must be done about it. If that is all right, the companies will no longer have any excuses, nor should it be taboo to make that law more effective, with a final piece of sanctions. Madam Secretary of State, we also had this debate with Minister Dermagne yesterday. I know this is very close to your heart, too. The figures of the National Bank of Belgium show that corona also results in a pre-carisation of women in the labour market. I've pushed hard to keep an eye on this. You have raised a number of issues which can certainly be resolved. I am also looking forward to the work you will do to evaluate, in addition to birth leave, whether Dad's better record this. We must also include interim work. Every daddy's entitled to birth leave. We need to look at the different care leave systems to see how we can achieve a better distribution between men and women there. There too there is a very important key, which means that women will have to work less part-time and will be able to do better jobs. That's all connected. It's very complex, but I can see that there's a lot of work on the shelf to look forward to in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State for your answers. You mentioned various points. In particular, I will keep in mind the control of social balance sheets. You also talked about sanctions, although, as my colleague from Laveleye said, it is still unfortunate that today, in 2021, we have to combat this wage gap, especially in the private sector. The possibility of considering sanctions for non-compliance with the 2021 law may be a solution, but again, I find it particularly unfortunate to have sanctions for something that should be normal. However, this wage gap exists in today's society and is sometimes discussed. But on a daily basis, I regret, of course, that this wage gap has been set aside and only emerges at certain times, particularly during this week when we are thinking of the struggle for women's rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which contains many interesting elements. The key element is indeed the enforceability of the pay gap law. Different elements of the law are not properly respected by companies. These various elements require action to ensure that the reports are released and that the personnel involved are protected. That is also a big problem today. There must be a stick behind the door, with sanctions. For that, there is work to be done for you. The biggest form of discrimination today is having a child. The choice is made by the man and the woman, but the woman is discriminated against. From the beginning, from the time of pregnancy, it is observed that the largest number of complaints about sexism is pregnancy. You can't do that anymore today. I am very much in favour of achieving equality from the outset. If it's mandatory for women to take leave, so is the father. I filed a bill a long time ago to also require paternity leave. That is only a start, there is much more work to be done, including on transparency. When it comes to pay, the woman negotiates the combination of work and family. The man negotiates extra-legal benefits. There too there is discrimination and there is also a need for transparency. Both must be able to negotiate on both matters. The same thing must be done there. There's still a lot of work to be done. I have not received an answer to the quota legislation, but I will ask it at another time. That too is an important shipyard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answers to the many questions you have received on a nevertheless important issue. I am glad that you pay due attention to this in your policy. The pay gap can be explained by two things. On the one hand, women are still taking on more care tasks today, on the other hand, unfortunately, there is still discrimination, just because someone is a woman. Both are of course a problem, and I agree with Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Van Hoof who call this a form of hidden discrimination. Women who do not opt for care are still often confronted with prejudices today. Women who consciously choose a career have to deal with prejudice. The day before yesterday was International Women's Day. On that day, I read an interview with Nele Somers, attorney, mother and wife. She used to be a miss, too. She is a doctor of law, but yet, as she says in the interview, she had to prove herself ever harder than her male colleagues when she was still working for a law firm. She bumped very clearly into the glass ceiling. In the meantime, it has established its own law firm with two branches and is also a reference in its field. The fact that she still shows herself on social media today as a mom, as a wife and as a woman who enjoys life often still causes some colleagues to disagree. She also noticed that many colleagues felt that she should not show herself as a woman. She's strong enough to fight it, but not everyone is. We do not see such matters merely in the legal profession. There is also a question that I asked about the psychologists, why a similar story was made to the media a few months ago. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to take this issue into account in your policy and to ensure that prejudices are eliminated as well. I am convinced that this will also help to close the pay gap, and that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u22	Mrs. Matz and Mrs. Reuter are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, the television series started yesterday If you knew, which was made by Hilde Van Mieghem and follows a series about child abuse, deals with intrafamily violence and is highly recommended to watch. It is a beautiful series, because they highlight all facets well. I also learned from that series that one in five women suffer from intra-family violence. That's a hallucinating figure. One in seven men is also involved. The taboo is, of course, even greater for a man to go to aid, let alone the burden of proof would be simpler. The series also highlights the impact of intra-family violence on one in five women and one in seven men on their children. The Social Emancipation Advisory Committee has just adopted a resolution on intra-family violence across party boundaries. A lot of these things are contained in them. You had once indicated that you would certainly look into this for your plan on intra-family violence. In any case, we must do a great deal about the subject, even more so now in the pandemic, the complaints have increased enormously, while that is just the tip of the iceberg. For months now, I have been pressing for proactive action in relation to families known to be in danger of intra-family violence. You said at some point that you would. How are things going on the premises today? That question is certainly important and is also included in our resolution. Since July 2016, an online tool for the assessment of the risk of violence by partners from Leuven has been available. How's the rollout going? Is the use of the tool generalised? What's the timing for this? Has the fight against intra-family violence been discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference? Flemish minister Zuhal Demir is definitely working hard on it and has more support for the family justice centers. That model should also be copied in Wallonia. That is a fantastic idea and works very well. In these centres, which are very accessible, all aid is collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, we know that the health crisis has exacerbated several gender inequalities. One of the facets of these inequalities, probably the most striking, is violence against women, which worsened during confinement. The number of incidents of violence reported by the police has decreased. This element must obviously question us about the ability of women to travel to the police. It is known that with the family burden, the ability to flee a violent spouse was made particularly difficult during this period. A new study reminds us that in April 2020, in Brussels alone, calls for emergency numbers tripled and requests for accommodation increased by 250%. As for the November confinement, the calls were not as high as those in April, but the cases were more serious according to the field actors. Between the two confinements, the figures were reduced but nevertheless remained above the values of previous years. It should also be noted that in Belgium, just for 2021, we already have 7 femicides for 24 in 2020. If we continue at this rate, I think the year 2021 will be of total darkness. So these are my questions. You have drawn up a plan to combat gender and domestic violence following the second wave of covid-19. What are the first effects of this plan? What are the positive consequences that you have seen? What are the prospects for the future and what are the steps to be taken? I think you're working on a plan to combat domestic violence and domestic violence. Where do we stand and when can we get access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, we have recently received a lot of figures on the increase in intra-family violence. At the beginning of the week, the helpline 1712 in Flanders reported an increase of 85% in the number of calls, a huge figure. Mrs de Laveleye has just spoken of a triple in Brussels. Those are hallucinating numbers. Madam Secretary of State, what is the new federal action plan? What actions have already been taken under that action plan? What concrete results has this produced? What possible adjustments do you plan if necessary? How do you experience the compatibility of the federal action plan with the plans of the Länder? What gaps and bottlenecks remain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I have questions in the same sentence. The figures on partner violence and child abuse have increased dramatically over the period of lockdown. People are literally and figuratively on each other's lips, which apparently leads to a lot of emotional violence. On the emotional level, the complaints are greatest and they are indeed very heavy for those who are victims of that kind of violence. Madam Secretary of State, in the second half of 2020 you developed a plan to tackle the violence during the lockdown. How's that plan coming along? What are the results? You are also working on a national action plan to combat gender-based violence. What is the state of play? In what way will you include the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation of the Chamber in that plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee yesterday we unanimously adopted a resolution on intra-family violence, with particular attention to the child, as some colleagues have already mentioned. As chairman of that advisory committee, I am particularly pleased with this approval, which indicates that everyone recognises the need to tackle this issue vigorously. Like Mrs Van Peel, I would like to support the idea of involving the whole family in the discussion of partner violence, including the children, since children are always the victims of violence, even if they do not share the blows. Following that resolution, many suggestions are now being submitted to the government, which we hope you will get on with. One of the things I wanted to bring to your attention today is the financial support to which women are entitled if they are victims of intra-family violence. A large threshold for victims to report is still financial dependence. Women on low incomes or women who are almost entirely dependent on the partner's income for their income are even more vulnerable, especially if there are children. Madam Secretary of State, would you like to get to work on that? How do you intend to ensure that information is readily available and that women are better informed about their financial rights? In this way, they are stronger in their shoes to escape the violence and try to build their own lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u28	In this topical debate, groups that have not asked questions can now take the floor to ask a question or to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, recently, the University of Liège conducted a survey of 1,530 Walloon and Brussels respondents confined to couples. Of these, 33% were involved in physical or psychological violence during confinement. Child abuse has also increased since the first confinement in March 2020. There are 40 per cent more hospital admissions of children for all types of violence. It is therefore essential that the government quickly develop a strong policy that combats all categories of violence - physical, sexual, psychological, economic and online - and that is particularly likely to guarantee protection to all victims. It was in this context, as my colleague Jiroflée said, that we worked in the Emancipation Committee on the drafting of a motion for a resolution. This text can provide a real basis for work, as it makes several recommendations. So, Madam Secretary of State, do you have up-to-date figures on domestic violence? In such a complex problem that requires interventions and solutions of different kinds, it is important that the federal government and those of the federated entities benefit from a comprehensive and coherent approach. What measures do you envisage in the short term? What form do you think could be taken to implement the resolution that we should soon adopt?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, yesterday was indeed in the newspapers what we unfortunately suspected since the start of the corona crisis, in particular that there was more intra-family violence during the first lockdown. Also in my police area, Puyenbroeck region, there appears to be a very clear increase in the number of reports. Yesterday I saw the first part of the documentary series on various forms of familial violence. Mr Van Peel referred to this earlier. The testimonies and stories that were discussed were indeed heartbreaking, but they also reminded us that we should not forget the male victims of intra-family violence. Where possible, they conflict with even larger thresholds for reporting or reporting. I have already asked you not to lose sight of this problem. I repeat my question. Of course, special attention should also be paid to children, who are both directly and indirectly victims of intra-family violence. The resolution adopted yesterday in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee is an important step in this respect. The national action plan to combat gender-based violence expired in 2019. Your federal action plan following the second corona wave is a first step in the right direction. For our group, a new one should be drawn up on the basis of the evaluation of the previous national action plan. Was there a formal evaluation of the previous National Action Plan? If so, can this information be made available to Parliament? When will you plan the success of the new National Action Plan and how will you ensure its coordinated implementation? Combating intra-family violence is a joint task for both the federal government and the Länder. How will you ensure good coordination between the Länder so that a joint, ambitious approach to the problem can be envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u31	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all my fellow Members for their work on the resolution yesterday. I am very pleased to see this work that we started together several months ago and which, despite the crisis, was able to lead to collective work. I am really happy with this achievement. You know my commitment to women's rights and, in particular, to domestic violence. I am fully aware of the need to provide responses to those who are subjected to violence, often increased with confinement. That is why, on my initiative, last November, the government adopted a series of measures in various areas through a federal action plan to combat gender and domestic violence following the second wave of the Covid-19. First, and many of you have talked about it, it is important to know the impact of the current health crisis, to measure things. That's why I asked the UGent to relaunch a study on relationships, stress and aggression during the covid-19 period. This study takes into account new factors, such as poverty or gender identity. This study is under way and I will come back to Parliament once it is completed to give you the figures. Many of you have asked for numbers. I think that will be a very relevant answer to your questions. On the margins of the monitoring, action must be taken. I have allocated EUR 1 million to support 27 structures for the reception of women victims of violence, after specifically identifying and supporting needs and services, in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. To bounce back on what Mr. De Caluwe said, this identification was done in close cooperation with the competent ministers at the level of the Regions, since it is usually a regional competence. We did not want to replace their work, but rather to strengthen them. It is really in a logic of cooperation, which has gone very well, that we have worked. I am also pleased that other measures, such as COL 20/2020, have been adopted. This measure is aimed at the practice of revisiting. We have often talked about this during the crisis. Police stations will resume contact with victims of violence who filed complaints in the months before, to ensure that there is no further violence and that the situation is stable. The members of the government are also continuing their collaboration, within the framework of the CIM Women's Rights, which now devotes its work to menstrual precariousness, sexism in the public space and balanced representation in all professional sectors. The issue of free hotlines to combat violence and its publicity in the public sphere will also be addressed, as will the follow-up of measures to combat gender-based violence against women adopted at the ICD on 25 January. I will also monitor the implementation of these measures within the ICD. I already organised a first consultation with the UCLL at the beginning of March on the risk assessment tool they worked out. As you will no doubt know, the implementation of the Istanbul Convention requires the introduction of a directive in the context of the fight against partner violence and feminicide for many new instruments. I intend to include the risk assessment tool file further in this context. On 25 January, the IMC adopted a series of measures against gender-based violence. These include actions on awareness campaigns and education, and the extension of care centres on sexual violence throughout the territory. Particular attention was asked for the compensation of victims, the accessibility of telephone and other helplines and the impact of partner violence on the conditions for the exercise of parental authority and for the care of children. Further follow-up of these measures is planned within the functioning of the IMC women's rights. The fight against gender-based violence requires, of course, measures for the coming years. I am currently working with IEFH on the drafting of the next national action plan, many of which you have mentioned. This plan should be based on the recommendations of civil society and the conclusions of the last GREVIO report. The recommendations adopted by the Senate and the House that we have just mentioned and that were adopted yesterday must also be taken into account. I attach great importance to close cooperation with civil society in the adoption of this plan, but also in the follow-up to these measures. That is why I will soon meet with actresses and actors on the ground to clearly define the basis for this collaboration. The IEFH will also be at the heart of the device. I believe that the strengthening of the fight against gender-based violence also requires the strengthening of the institution responsible for coordinating policy on gender-based violence. The government agreement demonstrated the Government's commitment and ambition to equality between women and men and the fight against gender-based violence. This commitment to strengthen the Institute will therefore be respected by this Government, which will implement this strengthening. It is true that there is a lack of information on, for example, claims for compensation by the violent force to the State and child support services in danger. In this context, the GREVIO points out that the path of the complaint remains unknown for many victims and that the institutional actors responsible for transmitting the information tend to inform only the general services that do not always provide appropriate support to the victims. The objective is therefore to provide victims with information on possible remedies. In the framework of the IMC of 25 January 2020, I instructed the IGVM to conduct a feasibility study to analyse whether it is possible to provide a web link with all references and/or data relevant to the entire territory via a national interface that refers to existing websites. The follow-up of this feasibility study will take place within the IMC. The draft new National Action Plan included various measures and actions in the context of the vulnerable position of women and children after divorce and in situations of intra-family violence. In the IMC's NAP, it is a priority to make these victims aware of where they can go, on the one hand, and strengthen them in their position, on the other. To conclude and answer Mr. From Caluwé on the evaluation of the previous plan and how we are going to work, I would say that the Institute is based on the evaluation of the previous plan – this issue can be addressed in a forthcoming committee. But I hope that the next plan, which is being drafted, will incorporate much more precise measurable objectives. That's one of my goals. I also hope that monitoring will be put in place to ensure that the implementation of the plan is measured and more concrete in the coming years. This also responds to the request of the GREVIO report. I can assure you of my willingness to be more concrete and impacting in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, allow me to point out that I hear you too often only talking about women. You even mention feminicide. It is very important to understand and to break the taboo in all communications that intra-family violence really does not only occur in women, as it affects one in five women, but also one in seven men. That is a difference, but much less large than is usually thought. For a man, however, it is usually even harder to come out with it. I would therefore advise you not to highlight intra-family violence every time as strongly as a woman's case. Apart from that, I hear you mention a lot of studies. A lot of studies have already been carried out on the subject. If we now have to carry out studies on the covid period, we will, of course, be late. Already from the first lockdown we've been informed. All the emergency services have been calling the alarm bell from the beginning. After all, victims of intra-family violence and their children are locked in a lockdown with their perpetrators. That situation is terrible and something must be done about it now. For months I have raised the problem in vain and we know what needs to be done. At some point, you finally introduced the revisit. This recurring visit is very important. It means visiting families proactively. But is that what we are doing today? That doesn't need to be studied anymore, it just needs to be done. If that instrument is linked to a better model of risk assessment, then you are doing things instead of talking about it. For the rest, it is simply important that we also point out to the community its role and role in the debate. It's important that every neighbor, every human being, everyone on the street calls it in and pronounces when they know business. The taboo is still far too big. We must act proactively, especially for children. In the first years of life, the damage is enormous. So it can't stay with patches on the wound, as such wounds don't heal anymore. I would therefore like to stress once again the need for the policy's proactivity. I think we should stop studying, but we really need to do things right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u33	Mr President, I heard in the reply of the Secretary of State that, precisely, the re-visiting practices had been put in place following the second confinement and the action plan to combat domestic violence put in place at the time of the second wave. This was done and a million euros was released to support the care centres. I believe that very concrete steps have already been taken. However, I remain very concerned about women and children who experience such violence directly or indirectly. I am quite attentive, Madam Secretary of State, when you say that the action plan on which you are going to work will be concrete, with indicators of follow-up. Indeed, one thing is to have a plan. Another is to be able to actually set it up and be able to follow it up to see if it's being used for anything. Plans won't be the first. Now we'll have to ensure that the prosecutor's office follows, that the police follow. You don't have a magic wand to do it. I think there is a lot of goodwill at different levels of society to move forward, but we need a conductor. I hear that the plan you are building has this vocation to recreate a dynamic. The crisis of the covid reminds us of the absolute urgency to fight effectively against domestic violence. I hope that we will have this parliamentary debate when your plan is implemented and that we can see how the recommendations of the resolution we closed yesterday will be taken into account, how the work of the voluntary sector has been taken into account. I hope that we will have a clearer vision in the coming weeks and that you can come and present it to us around April or May. We are looking forward to this debate and, above all, to the impact of this new plan. Good luck! We have a lot of expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, given the enormous increase, we must take concrete action. The new action plan should be based in particular on GREVIO, which makes very clear proposals on what needs to be done. We really need to get to work, because the situation is very serious for the people. As far as the resolution is concerned, I would like to say that the PVDA would very much have liked to have included the socio-economic aspect, but that was not possible. However, that is very important for a lot of women. If you sit at home with three children and you have a very low income, you can't even leave. Those women are trapped in a situation of violence in which they depend on their husbands. So we need to put on the gender glasses. For us, socio-economic independence is very important in the fight against intra-family violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, we are all sending out the message that we must pursue a policy of restraint towards the victims. That cri de coeur comes not only from us, but also from the victims themselves. Children are locked up because they can't go to school; adults are locked up because they can't go to work, while that's the only outlet to take a breath away from the difficult situation at home. All that can't go through the lockdown today. You can't even go out at night. It is therefore important that we take action and make a strong commitment to a sustained guidance, including from the federal level. This indeed requires indicators. Of course, in a family where there is intra-family violence, the child may be the most vulnerable. There is also structural inequality, because women are in a socio-economically weaker position and often at home, which makes them more likely to be victims of violence than men. I think we need these indicators to tell us the difference in violence among children, men and women. Is it about emotional violence, sexual violence or physical violence? That requires a different approach. The study on these indicators, to which you refer, is very important in order to provide a tailor-made approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u36	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary of State. I know that the problem is close to your heart and you will be rolling out initiatives in the near future. I'm very happy about that. First of all, I can't stress enough that children are always victims. Children carry that, directly or indirectly, with them all their lives, even if they don't get hit. I would like to mention this explicitly, because it is very important. In that sense, I am very pleased with the idea of revisiting. I hope that the re-search will be carried out in practice, and I urge you to check it. Secondly, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, financial information is mostly unknown, for low-skilled people, for non-lingual speakers, but also for people like you and me. The administration is often inscrutable. It may be a bogat but in a crisis situation there is an urgent need for answers. However, I would like to insist that people should be able to access the information they are entitled to as quickly as possible in an easy, accessible way. Thank you again for your answers, Madam Secretary of State, and for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u37	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, at the end of 2020, we learned of the release of a €945,000 subsidy to increase for several months the reception capacity of the Brussels Refugee LGBTQI+ by fifteen places and to create ten new places in each of the other regions. This measure is the result of the "Vulnerable Groups" Task Force, which has established a set of 19 measures to assist people vulnerable to the consequences of the health crisis and containment. Among the measures taken, 945 000 euros will therefore be granted to shelters for LGBTQI+ youth who are rejected or threatened by their families because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. The reception period varies from three to nine months. In addition to psychosocial support, various more practical activities such as opening your own bank account, managing your income, joining a mutual fund, seeking employment or even having your own address will be offered by these shelters. Madam Secretary of State, in concrete terms, how these 945 000 euros will be distributed, in a territorial way but also in terms of staff costs, purchases of movable or possibly immovable property, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What concrete projects have been selected or will they be selected? Which partner associations have been or will be selected? Under what procedure? What will be the specifications used? On what numerical analysis of needs have you based yourself? Finally, what about the expected temporality of this measure? Are you looking for its long-term sustainability?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u38	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to point out that this question is being asked a few days after a likely homophobic tragedy. I know that this item is on the agenda of our agenda, but I am not sure that it can be taken up this morning. I would therefore like to stress that the homophobia that has remembered us this weekend is indeed a reality. As you know, homophobia is being combated by shelters, these fundamental spaces that exist in Belgium. You went there and you expressed strong and courageous support for the work done, which, as my colleague Prévot said, is essential since it is a matter of creating a security space, a serene space, a listening space, a space for help, a socio-psychological space, a medical space for LGBTQIA+ people. The news of this weekend as well as the latent and growing homophobia among relatives and friends as well as on social networks show the importance of these spaces. However, it is to be feared that the number of additional places you have created will not suffice, even if it is sufficient during this period of covid. Indeed, the occupation of these spaces depends on the visibility of the shelters. In other words, the more they advertise for their space, the more they will be filled. In reality, a large part of the LGBT community does not know these spaces. A continuation of the existing envelope could lead to a structural increase in the number of places. Do you envisage this eventual sustainability in partnership with the Brussels Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u39	Mr Moutquin, I invite you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u40	I'm finishing, Mr. President. One of the peculiarities is that these spaces are occupied by persons without a residence permit. Madam Secretary of State, how can we respond to the structural needs of these structures? Are you considering the continuation of the existing envelope? Are contacts with your colleague, Mr Sammy Madhi, envisaged to allow, in particular, to reserve a Fedasil reception centre for the LGBTQIA+ public?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr Moutquin on his reflection on the place of LGBTQI+ people in our society. If we look for LGBTQI+ rights champions on the international stage, we see, with this terrible event, how much LGBTQI+ people continue to suffer from discrimination and violence in our society because of the mentality, on which there is a lot of work to be done. It is also a job that I want to do in the coming years. Mr Prévot, as part of the "Vulnerable Groups" task force, the €945,000 subsidy will be devoted to the opening, in the three Belgian regions, of some 30 places for LGBTQI+ citizens who are driven from their homes by their families or who find themselves in a situation of homelessness because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. The conditions for using the amounts are fairly broad, so that each organization can act according to its possibilities and needs. Indeed, the structures that will implement these new places are not the same, do not start from the same point of departure. We really wanted to allow everyone to develop places in the most efficient way possible. The return of land is at the origin of this project. The RainbowHouse, with whom I am in regular contact, informs me that, since the beginning of the crisis, requests for accommodation for LGBTQI+ people have intensified. She receives about two requests a week. The Refuge Brussels receives an average of five requests per week, which unfortunately cannot be answered favourably. I had the opportunity to visit one of these shelters. They are indeed totally saturated. Mr Moutquin, since the refuges do not have federal jurisdiction in Belgium, it is not possible to create sustainable structures with the budgets of the task force. In the face of the urgency they are facing in this crisis period, however, it was entirely logical that the task force "Vulnerable groups" could support them. I will consult with the federated entities on the structural support for these structures and a potential sustainability of these places in the future. I met my colleague Sammy Mahdi about LGBTQI+ migrants. He assured me that he was working on the question of Fedasil's reception. I felt a real openness with regard to the handling of this question. We must continue to work together to find the best possible solutions. But in my personal capacity, according to the feedback I have, I would be in favour of creating centres reserved for LGBTQI+ people and LGBTQI+ friendly, without obligation. I think that would be a positive solution, but we still need to think about its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I think that this question actually echoes, as my colleague Simon Moutquin said, the homophobic murder of Beveren, which, like femicides, is not a different fact. It should be recalled that it is women and men who are murdered because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. This measure, the €945,000 released by the government to allow suitable accommodation for those people who sometimes flee a family environment or pressure from their choice of life, is now, and perhaps more than ever, essential. I can only encourage you to do so. I hope that in a few years, such budgets will no longer have to be released because everyone will be able to live in harmony. I am a sweet dreamer and I hope we can do it, but in this case and for the moment, it is still necessary to protect those people who simply want to live in harmony with their gender orientation and sexuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u43	Mr President, I shall be brief, since I have exceeded my speaking time on the question. Madam Secretary of State, homophobia, unfortunately it is not that the tragedy of this weekend is disgusting. It is also a suicide rate among LGBTQI+ youth that is much higher than others. It is daily violence on social networks, domestic violence and elsewhere. Sometimes it's the fear of going out by taking his boyfriend or girlfriend by hand or in his arms because of this violence. This is a response that includes shelters, but also this inter-federal plan, which focuses on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and the sexual characteristics that you are preparing. Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your constant work on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, as we know, contraception is a major issue in terms of equality. In addition to the biological and hormonal effects of the pill, the IUD or other methods of female contraception, the mental and financial burdens on women's shoulders are enormous. The use of male contraception, apart from the external condom, unfortunately remains very marginal. In Belgium, according to the Federation of Family Planning Centres for Socialist Anticipating Women (FPS), two methods of male contraception are recognized by the health authorities: the external condom and the vasectomy. Other methods are either on trial or already available but not yet recognized or marketed. This would require, in particular, Phase 3 studies, which are obviously more costly. We realize that the will is not at the level of the pharmaceutical industry. I remind you that a few months ago, François Fornieri, whom we talked about a few weeks ago for other facts, and who is also the boss of the biopharma company Mithra, declared in November that there was no market for male contraception, which is a hallucinating statement. Madam Secretary of State, what are the methods on trial and which are available but not yet recognised? What reasons, other than the investments of biopharma companies, explain this? Are there any recognitions on the agenda? Does the Government have an ambition in this regard, particularly with regard to the financial treatment of male contraception? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u45	Mr Prévot, like you, I have read Mr Fornieri's interview and the very informative article by Médor on this subject. For me, this issue is very important in terms of equality between women and men. As Secretary of State for Gender Equality, I will encourage any opportunity to better share responsibility for contraception between men and women. With respect to your first two questions, I refer you to the Minister of Health, as they deal with matters handled by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS). Male contraception is an essential link for effective sexual and reproductive health policy. Its development is, moreover, part of the recommendations of the IVG Evaluation Commission, published a year ago and, I imagine, also this year. The IEFH plans to work on these issues in the coming years. For me, Mr. Fornieri's testimony reveals an a priori on men, very present in society, that they would not be interested in controlling their fertility. This shows how much work remains to be done on mentalities - perhaps not so much with men as with pharmaceutical companies. Medor's file also revealed the unexpected halt of a very advanced research on the development of a male contraceptive. I see an interesting lead to dig. In its agreement, the government committed to removing barriers to access to contraception. Under this legislature, I will work with the Minister of Health to identify these barriers. Those who are linked to the development of male contraception will undoubtedly have to be part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, this question is indeed essential. It is essential to work on a better distribution of contraception. Two means are currently recognized: the external condom and the vasectomy, whose irreversible nature is holding up a lot of men from the perspective of contraception. At some point it is necessary to be able to work on this better distribution of contraception. It is not normal that it is again women who have to bear the mental but also financial burden of this contraception. I can only encourage you to move in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, since 2015, Solidaris has been taking the pulse of the Walloon and Brussels population every September through its trust and well-being barometer. For the 2020 edition, 1120 people were interviewed, between 30 and 40 minutes, by telephone and via the Internet. They answered more than 200 questions about their living conditions, their health, society, the family, etc. The conclusion for the 2020 edition is clear: According to Solidaris, "the difference between men and women in terms of well-being and trust has never been greater than in 2020". In almost all of the indicators presented by Solidaris, we find a significant gender disparity. In view of the current health context, it is mainly in the health sector that the gap is greatest. In terms of mental health, for example, the survey shows that one in three women is depressed (moderate to severe), compared to one in four men and that 53 per cent of women report high stress, compared to 39 per cent of men. Madam Secretary of State, among the 19 measures established by the "vulnerable groups" task force, which are those concerning women? What resources have been identified and what concrete measures will be put in place? What is the specific health situation? In keeping with your ambitions as Secretary of State, what analysis do you make of the Solidaris survey and the fact that women's confidence has been at its lowest level since the barometer existed, that is, since 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u48	Mr Prévot, thank you for your interesting question. The health crisis has highlighted gender inequalities in various areas. Most of them are women who are at the front line of exposure to the virus because a large part of them work in underpaid, undervalued occupations where work is impossible. Pre-existing inequalities, both in the distribution of domestic and educational tasks, have also worsened during confinement. Solo moms have experienced even more difficult isolation and their financial situation has often worsened. The health crisis probably had an impact on the results of the 2020 edition of the Solidaris barometer. With confinement, many women were locked up with a violent spouse. The health crisis has increased the number of cases of domestic violence. During the first wave of containment, the number of calls to the listening line 0800 30 030 tripled. Today, there are double calls compared to a normal period. As part of the "vulnerable groups" task force led by the Minister for Social Integration and the Fight against Poverty, I asked that the measures chosen cover all vulnerable audiences so that no one is forgotten. I am thinking, in particular, of women victims of violence, LGBTQI+ people, single-parent families, part-time workers, sex workers or persons with disabilities. More specifically, I have been asked to present two measures to the government: a measure relating to LGBTQSI+ shelters that we have just mentioned, a measure relating to services that deal with the reception of women victims of violence. Although the Regions have identified ways to expand the capacity of specialized services for the reception of women victims of violence, these services still face difficulties in providing qualitative support to women, particularly in the light of the need to comply with health rules. That is why I have proposed that the federal government should finance, to the tune of EUR 1 million, 27 reception services in the area of domestic and domestic violence. These services shall be financed and/or approved by the Communities and the Regions. The consultation with the federated entities was well carried out. This additional assistance was more than welcome. For the other measures, I invite you to address my colleague, Mrs Lalieux, who coordinates all the work of the Task Force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u49	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for taking stock of the situation and for reminding you of the measures you have initiated with the government. I will, of course, ask your colleague, Mrs Lalieux, about the second part of my questions. Anyway, a tool like the Solidaris barometer is very interesting. It shows us how much, and this year even more than others, it is necessary for women to be given special attention. You recalled the initiatives that have been taken in this area. We must, of course, continue in this direction and sustain these measures because the need is real on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u50	Mrs. Fonck isn't here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, I would like an update on the Care Centres after Sexual Violence. Centres will be opened in 2021 in Leuven, Antwerp and Charleroi. In 2022 West Flanders, Limburg, Luxembourg and Namur will be added. In view of the great need, I would have liked to know how far they stand. There are several stages to be completed at the opening of a care centre. In the initial phase, co-operation with the police area will take place and in the enlargement phase the operation will be extended to the entire judicial district. Those phases could take two years. You also mentioned the funding of the forensic nurses and the medical consultant from the Health Care Staff Fund. My question concerns Leuven, the city from which I come. What progress has been made with the establishment of the necessary sites and the recruitment of staff? What about staff training? When will the center open the doors? When will the enlargement phase start? Can you give an overview of the various centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, it is a good thing that three new centres will open in 2021. The four other centres will then be opened. It is important to check the extent of the work. Are people aware of the existence of these centres? After all, there is a big dark number on sexual violence and many victims do not find their way to the existing centres. How do you want to increase the visibility of the Care Centres after Sexual Violence so that as many people as possible can find their way there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u53	Mr President, we are currently in the deployment phase of the CPVOs to cover the entire Belgian territory and to ensure that victims of sexual violence have access to a CPVO within the hour. In 2021, three new CPVS will be opened: the UZ Leuven, the UZ Antwerpen and the CHU de Charleroi. During this legislature, seven new centres will be established. Preparations for the start-up of the first three new care centres are under way. Training for care centre staff will be organised after the summer so that care centres can open their doors in autumn 2021. The police services linked to the care centres Antwerpen and Leuven undertake to start from the opening of these care centres with all the police areas of the entire judicial district. One of the problems I have identified with respect to SACHs is the lack of knowledge of their existence by the population but also by certain services. In parallel with their deployment, I will initiate a national communication campaign to raise awareness among citizens of the realities of sexual violence and to inform them of the services offered by the CPHAs. A specific campaign should also be planned within university campuses in cooperation and with the support of IEFH. Existing and new CPHAs will also conduct local awareness campaigns. At the national level, a communication is planned when the ten CPVSs are fully operational at the level of the judicial district, allowing for the appropriate care of all victims of sexual violence in Belgium. In addition, the contact details of the operational SPCVs and various advices are available at www.sexualviolence.be. I can assure you of my willingness to offer optimal care to all victims of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am glad that in the autumn the centres in Antwerp and Leuven will open and that victims will be able to go there. It is very bad that one should be pleased with the opening of such a centre in view of the subject, but it is really a great necessity. I hope that all the other centres will follow soon. We will follow it closely, but I have the impression that you are doing the same. I am sure you will find a warrior in me to ensure that these care centres can be opened anywhere in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, it is good that these centres are coming, that is a step forward. You talk about communication and that is of course very important, because only a website is too little to reach many people. It is very important that you invest in communication and find out how to make it better known to the people. In the case of existing centres, it is true that people often do not know that it exists. In any case, we will continue to work on it, and here too we will be behind it, so that it all goes forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, according to World Health Organisation estimates, one in six people over 60 years of age worldwide are being abused. A complex situation, because the problem is very fragmented and versatile: it happens in family circles, in residential care centres, in home care. It can be emotional, physical, sexual, financial or even unintentional in nature, for example because people are overprotective or give wrong care. This is a cross-border approach. In Belgium there are no figures on this problem, but unfortunately it does exist. The Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE), which has conducted a broad survey on the issue of elderly abuse, puts the theme on the agenda and advises the government to draw up a national or regional plan. The aim is to better detect and tackle the abuse. The KCE calls for the training of the care staff, the police and the assistance and asks whether the roadmap it has worked out can be disseminated to professionals. I already questioned the Minister for Health on 8 December 2020, but he considered you best placed, also within the framework of the National Action Plan to combat gender-based violence, to answer my questions, because the plan includes a number of measures for vulnerable groups, including older people. Have you taken note of the KCE report, which calls for a plan of action against elder abuse? Will you discuss the report in consultation with the other relevant ministers and policy levels? Will the government take initiatives to better detect and address the problem? What initiatives can we expect in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u57	Mrs Jiroflée, I have indeed taken note of the report of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre, including their recommendation to draw up a national or regional plan against elderly abuse. I have also read the Unia report on discrimination in relation to the health crisis. Unia received a total of 331 notifications regarding people over 65 years of age during the first lockdown. The issue of the autonomy of older people is at the heart of these reports. I think we need to adopt a two-fold approach: mainstreaming a policy towards older people and a specific approach to older people's discrimination. I already work with Minister Lalieux in the task force for vulnerable groups, in which older people are an important target group. With a view to mainstreaming older people's policy, I am working with other relevant ministers to incorporate the conclusions of the European Council on the integration of older people's policy into government policy, while also highlighting the issue of violence against older people. In my policy on gender-based violence, I will also cross-examine other forms of discrimination, including older women. As I indicated in the discussion of my policy paper in Parliament, I will focus on this issue in the coming years. I am committed to discussing this with the other competent federal ministers. I am thinking primarily of colleagues Vandenbroucke and Lalieux, as well as of the regions, which have important powers of care, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I'm glad you recorded the file. I look forward to a real approach and to the way in which you will deal with it in the facts. There is indeed a need for good and great cooperation with the regions. We will question you again on time about the dossier, once there are real issues on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u59	Mr De Caluwé, women regularly get comments about, for example, too short a skirt or too deep a cleavage in a professional context. Not only the Psychologists' Committee, but also other deontological appeal bodies are punishing women for being too sexy to perform their profession properly. First of all, I would like to stress that the way in which a person dresses or the activities performed outside working hours do not have an automatic impact on the professional context. In addition, it is possible to ask what activities of private life can constitute an exact impairment of the dignity of a profession. A deontological code must not infringe the right to private life and self-determination and, more specifically, the right to dress in a certain way or, more generally, to express itself in a certain way in terms of sexuality. Moreover, the Bollen case shows, among other things, that there is a risk of different problematic deontological interpretations depending on whether women or men are involved. It is therefore an important point that the notion of dignity, which is included in many deontological codes, is interpreted in accordance with current gender expression concepts, on the one hand, and the legal framework on gender discrimination and gender expression, on the other. I would like to look into that aspect of the deontological code. I have therefore already consulted with Mr De Sutter on the deontological framework for federal officials. I will take the same initiative with other fellow ministers in their area of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u60	I am very pleased that you acknowledge the problem. Just now, in the actua debate on the pay gap, I also said that everyone should be able to be themselves. You dislike the fact that a professional organisation condemns someone for doing what they do in their private lives, while hiding behind the deontological code, and I think that is a good thing. As far as that code is concerned, each professional sector determines for itself what might compromise the dignity of the post. To be honest, that is a very vague concept without a firm definition, but society expects its interpretation to be in line with what is considered socially acceptable. Standards relating to the dignity of the profession therefore have to be evaluated with time. It is positive that you are taking steps to the professional committees to help them evolve in line with what is expected of them according to current standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u61	We have tabled an interplay on the issue of anti-racism. Can we still get that before we stop? How do we do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u62	That's the 22nd topic on the list. We have to stop at 12:30. However, interviews must be dealt with within two weeks and there is no new date on the agenda. I suggest that we treat this interplay effectively. An interplay then prevails on the other points. Our calendar doesn't allow us to schedule another meeting this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u63	It is not a problem that an interplay should prevail. I would like to express my surprise at the fact that Mr De Caluwé has just asked a question about Kaat Bollen. There are three other questions, including mine, scheduled for Mr Clarinval this afternoon. However, it is all about the same thing in general. Why is this happening and why is this being split up? Maybe you can't answer that right away. Then we will continue with the interplay of Mrs Vindevoghel. I'd still like to get an explanation on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u64	Of course, I don't know anything about that. Mrs Schlitz, are you aware that there are questions about the Kaat Bollen case addressed to Minister Clarinval and why is there one addressed to you and another to Mr Clarinval?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u65	No, I do not have the answer to this specific question as to why certain questions are sent to certain committees and to others in our home. On the other hand, it is often a difficulty for us not to have a comprehensive view of all the questions tabled. I understand that it is sometimes necessary for a question on the same subject to be tabled in several committees because one subject has several facets and may require a minister to intervene on that aspect and another minister to do so. But here I agree with Mrs Jiroflée on the point of clustering certain issues. I don't know how we can better connect with the services to have this information and this better collaboration with the firms. I would also like to say that, in some cases, the reasons why one issue is joined and others are not, in some cases, clear to us. My firm is looking to the services to ask that questions about the same subject matter be joined, but it would be easier for us if it were done upstream. I do not know whether this should go through the authors who have to say that they wish to join a particular question or whether it should go through the services. In any case, I believe that this will facilitate the work of the committee. Even today, I have been able to point out, further on the list, that some questions relate to topics that have been dealt with earlier. I think that would save time for all the members of the committee if the questions were more often grouped by theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u66	Mr President, it is indeed a crazy way of working. I can imagine why the proposals were presented to Mr Clarinval. I suppose the reason is that these are professional organisations. However, Mr De Caluwé also referred to this. All questions go in the same direction. So it's really crazy. I would like to make that point, and I believe that we should take this into account in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u67	Mr President, excuse me for taking the floor for a moment, but it is important that I give the floor to both members of the government, both to the Secretary of State and to Minister Clarinval. So my question is also on this afternoon's agenda. That does not, of course, answer the question as to why the other two questions were referred spontaneously to the other committee. However, I had explicitly asked for both members of the government to be able to question the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u68	Mr President, my question was simply addressed to Mrs Schlitz. It's still very weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u69	It is not Mrs Schlitz who divides the questions. We must take an effective look at the problem with the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u70	Mr President, it is because I fear that something has gone wrong that I am raising the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u71	Mrs Schlitz, of course, only has a look at the questions that have been assigned to her. There is also the possibility, as Mr De Caluwe did, of submitting the question to both members of the government. The secretariat informs me that it will conduct a survey on this subject. We can now discuss Mrs Vindevoghel's interplay on anti-racism policy in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, March 21 is International Day Against Racism and Discrimination. That is a good time to reflect on anti-racism policy in our country, because although this new government is full of good intentions about equal opportunities and diversity policies, we can see that there are still a lot of problems in practice. In my speech, I would like to address two major problems in Belgian anti-racism policy: tackling discrimination in the labour market and tackling racist hate speech and crimes. Firstly, with regard to tackling discrimination in the labour market, research shows that we have the most segregated labour market in Europe and the whole of the OECD. That is an absolute disgrace. Nevertheless, you and the government leave behind to have proactive labour market discrimination tests carried out. Moreover, the government agreement even excludes it by imposing very strict conditions on the conduct of discrimination tests. With current policies, therefore, we will really not be able to correct the imbalance in the labour market and ensure that discrimination is actively detected and addressed. It is therefore necessary to take preventive and proactive action against racist discrimination in the labour market. The current procedure for carrying out discrimination tests is purely reactive and, in most cases, is too late to establish discrimination. The current law is, in practice, an empty box, because it is barely working, as shown by the low number of discrimination tests carried out so far. In order for that law to really work, a number of things need to be adapted. For example, the powers of social inspection should be extended in order to be able to test for discrimination. It must have the same powers of control over discrimination as for all other matters under its control. For this purpose, the condition of the prior written consent of the employment officer or the procurator of the King must be lifted, as well as the condition that there should be an objective indication of discrimination. To this end, a number of legislative proposals are currently before the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of the Chamber. In this context, the opinion of the National Labour Council was requested. It indicated its intention to wait for an opinion because it expects the government itself to come up with a legislative initiative shortly to make the current regime for labour market discrimination tests more efficient. When can we expect this initiative? Are you going to exert pressure within the government to enable the use of proactive discrimination tests on the labour market? How are you gonna do that? In addition, there is, of course, an urgent need to strengthen social inspection with more resources and staff. In the coalition agreement we read that the government is committed to gradually aligning the number of social inspectors with ILO standards. When can we expect the number of social inspectors in Belgium to be in line with ILO standards? Then I come to the second important point, namely the fight against racist crimes. On 18 February, the European Commission opened infringement proceedings against Belgium, because our country has not fully or correctly transposed the European framework rules on the fight against racism and xenophobia in criminal law. Europe does not, of course, just do that. There is de facto impunity on racism in Belgium. At Unia, reports of racist hate speech and crimes increase year after year. However, sanctions are hardly imposed and most cases are dismissed. However, the 2008 European Framework Decision requires that serious manifestations of racism and xenophobia should be punishable in all Member States by effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions. However, the Belgian legal framework does not ensure that racist and xenophobic motivation is charged by the national courts as an aggravating circumstance in all crimes. As a result, there is no guarantee in Belgium that hate crimes will be effectively and adequately prosecuted. However, the recipes for remedying this have been available for a long time. They are carefully described in the NAPAR coalition memorandum, which has been working for over twenty years for an inter-federal action plan against racism. In the meantime, we know that this government will keep that promise after 20 years. But even more important than having a national action plan against racism, it is a good action plan. When I hear the watered-down version of the action plan demanded by the NAPAR coalition, I am really worried about that. Discrimination tests are not even part of the proposal for an action plan that is now on the table, while this is one of the spearheads of the coalition memorandum. In its letter of formal notice, the European Commission gave Belgium two months to respond. What follow-up will you give to that rebuke? How are you going to make sure that the national action plan against racism is effective and effective and not an empty box?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u73	As I pointed out in my policy statement, I attach great importance to an efficient system of mystery calls, a situation test to detect discrimination. Proactive action by the inspection services is part of this. The current government is currently working hard on a draft law to meet these needs. The strengthening of inspection services is an important point, but I would like to refer to my colleague responsible for Work for this. The Framework Decision 2008/913 requires a general increase in criminal penalties in the event of a hate motive. We note that the Framework Decision has a correct application. The Belgian case law also applies an increase in criminal penalties for crimes for which no optional or compulsory increase in criminal penalties is required on the basis of a hate motive. This does not prevent me from calling in the reform of the Criminal Code for a general increase in criminal penalties in the event of a hate motive. I also await the recommendations of the evaluation committee which is currently evaluating our federal anti-discrimination legislation. In the area of criminal law, too, it will make specific recommendations, which I will analyse very carefully and, if necessary, have them implemented. As far as the national action plan against racism is concerned, we are very much in the process of preparing it. The NAPAR coalition and Unia are very closely involved in this. As stated in the launch note adopted by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Racism in September last year, proposals are now being prepared for many policy areas at eight levels of action. So don't worry, it's definitely not going to be an empty box.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u74	We believe that much more needs to be done, Madam Secretary of State. That is why we have tabled a motion. Last week I heard from someone working in an interim agency that codes are still being used to discriminate in the workplace. I think there's still a lot of work to be done. I know you want to move forward, too, but we still want to table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u75	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, attached to the Minister for Mobility, - whereas Belgium currently has the most segregated labour market in Europe and the OECD; - whereas proactive discrimination tests are the most effective instrument for detecting and combating discrimination in the labour market; - whereas in most cases reactive discrimination tests are too late to establish discrimination; - having regard to the lack of effectiveness of the Law of 15 January 2018 laying down various provisions on employment which regulates labour market discrimination tests, it is clear that the number of discrimination tests carried out to date is low; - whereas the current conditions for carrying out discrimination tests prevent them from being carried out proactively; - whereas no other type of control by the social inspection is subject to such conditions; - having regard to the legislative proposals currently under consideration in the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Pensions of the Chamber of Representatives, which seek to remove the prior written consent of the employment auditor or the King's Attorney and the presence of an 'objective' indication of discrimination as conditions for carrying out discrimination tests on the labour market; - having regard to the reply of the National Labour Council to the question to give advice on these legislative proposals; - whereas Unia advises in its 2019 annual report to address discrimination in the labour market with proactive discrimination tests and to reduce the existing procedures for authorising the implementation of those tests; - having regard to the fact that Belgium does not currently meet ILO standards as regards the number of social inspectors; - whereas social inspection urgently needs more people and resources to be able to do its job properly and proactively detect discrimination in the labour market; - having regard to the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission on 18 February. opened up against Belgium because our country has not fully or correctly transposed the European framework rules on the fight against racism and xenophobia in criminal law; - having regard to the 2008 European Framework Decision, which provides that serious manifestations of racism and xenophobia must be punishable in all Member States by 'effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties'; - whereas, according to the European Commission, the Belgian legal framework does not ensure 'that racist and xenophobic motivation is charged by national courts as an aggravating circumstance in all crimes'; - whereas it is therefore not guaranteed in Belgium that 'hate crimes are effectively and adequately prosecuted', according to the European Commission; - whereas, year after year, Unia records an increase in reports of racist hate speech and crimes; - whereas an inter-federal action plan against racism is needed to remedy this; - whereas the NAPAR coalition memorandum contains the best recipes for this; - having regard to the Government's commitment to an inter-federal action plan against racism, intolerance and all forms of discrimination in 2021; asks the government - to take a legislative initiative this spring to enable proactive labour market discrimination tests and to impose adequate minimum targets for the number of proactive discrimination tests to be carried out; - to bring the number of social inspectors in line with ILO standards by summer; - in order to allocate sufficient resources to the social inspection to enable it to carry out its mission properly, - to draw up in 2021 a sound inter-federal action plan against racism which incorporates all the requirements of the NAPAR coalition memorandum, especially those relating to proactive discrimination tests; - to fully and correctly transpose into national law the European framework rules on the fight against racism and xenophobia in criminal law this year." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, Assistant to the Minister of Mobility, Whereas Belgium currently has the most segregated labour market in Europe and the OECD; Whereas proactive controls on discrimination are the most effective instrument for detecting and combating discrimination in the labour market; Whereas in most cases reactive checks on discrimination are carried out too late to be able to detect discrimination; - Whereas the Act of 15 January 2018 on various provisions on employment, which governs checks on discrimination, is not very effective, which is attested by the very small number of checks on discrimination which have been carried out so far; Whereas the current conditions for carrying out checks on discrimination prevent such checks from being carried out proactively; Whereas no other type of control by the Social Inspectorate is subject to such conditions; - having regard to the legislative proposals currently being dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of the House of Representatives, which seek to abolish the prior written agreement of the Labour Auditor or the King's Prosecutor and the presence of an "objective" indication of discrimination as a condition for carrying out checks on discrimination in the labour market; - having regard to the response of the National Labour Council to its request for an opinion on these proposals; - Whereas in its 2019 Annual Report, Unia recommends combating discrimination in the labour market by means of proactive checks on discrimination and reducing existing procedures for approving the execution of such checks; - in view of the fact that Belgium currently does not meet ILO standards for the number of social inspectors; Whereas the Social Inspectorate urgently needs more staff and resources to be able to carry out its work properly and to detect discrimination in the labour market proactively; - having regard to the infringement procedure opened by the European Commission against Belgium on 18 February because our country has not fully or correctly transposed into Belgian law the rules of the European framework on the criminal prosecution of racism and xenophobia; - having regard to the 2008 European Framework Decision, which requires that serious manifestations of racism and xenophobia must be made punishable in all Member States by means of 'effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties'; - Whereas, according to the European Commission, the Belgian legal framework does not guarantee 'that racist and xenophobic motivation is taken into account by national courts as an aggravating circumstance in all crimes'; - whereas it is therefore not guaranteed in Belgium that 'hate crimes are effectively and adequately prosecuted', according to the European Commission; Whereas Unia has recorded an increase in reports of hate speech and hate crimes of a racist nature every year; Whereas an inter-federal plan of action to combat racism is needed to remedy it; - Whereas the NAPAR coalition memorandum contains the best revenue for this purpose; - given the government's promise to present in 2021 an inter-federal plan of action against racism, intolerance and all forms of discrimination; asks the government - to undertake a legislative initiative this spring to allow proactive checks on discrimination in the labour market and to impose adequate minimum targets for the number of proactive checks on discrimination to be carried out; - bring the number of social inspectors in line with ILO standards by next summer; - to allocate sufficient resources to the social inspectorate so that it can carry out its task properly; - to prepare in 2021 a good inter-federal plan of action against racism in which all the requirements laid down in the NAPAR coalition memorandum, and in particular those relating to proactive controls on discrimination, would be translated; - to carry out the full and correct transposition into Belgian law of the rules of the European framework relating to the criminal repression of racism and xenophobia this year." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Simon Moutquin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Simon Moutquin. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Mrs Reuter is not present to ask her question No 55012918C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, last year more than 600 people registered at the Centre for Sexology and Gender in the UZ Ghent, a record. This is a taboo that is gradually falling away in our society. The new Transgender Act of 2018 and a number of role models improve awareness and could therefore explain that increase. The waiting list for a first call is now 16 months. Currently 1,300 people receive treatment and by 2020 300 people started their journey. The people are now referred to the local assistance via the Transgender Infopoint, funded by the Flemish Government, where a care card for Flanders can be found. This TIP was translated into French by means of a project grant from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. However, the Institute no longer finances this translation. Professor TJSjoen works at the UZ Gent for this Transgender Infopoint and calls for this offer also to be offered in the other university or larger hospitals in our country and tries to encourage several centers to also start a coordinated offer. Currently, the UZ Gent is the only hospital in our country that offers integrated care. The maximum capacity is almost reached. The hospitals in Genk and Antwerp seem to be following this example, but this is still in its infancy. We're actually only seeing the top of the iceberg now. We know that because we see that there are up to 100 applications per month in Amsterdam. In addition to the provision of care, people will thus find their way more quickly here too. Madam Secretary of State, do you believe that transgender care is currently inadequate in our country and should be extended further? Why is that, or why not? The supply, but also demand, is now mainly in Flanders. Only 10% of patients come from Brussels or Wallonia. That's weird. I cannot imagine that there are fewer transgenders there. What do you think is the explanation for this? The French version of the TIP was provided by the IGVM, but its funding was discontinued. What was the reason for that? What steps are you prepared to take to keep this website also accessible to French-speaking compatriots? Finally, outside the waiting lists there is also a need for a follow-up study to check how people feel five to ten years after the guidance and/or interventions. There are no data available in our country. Are you prepared to make funds available for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, it is indeed very important in our country to provide a sufficiently large and specific range of care for transpersonalities. Having access to good and high quality help and care is essential for the well-being of those looking for it. At the moment we see that demand for care has increased considerably and that supply has been reduced. There is therefore a need for specific specialized care, but it is also necessary to use it to inform and raise awareness of help and care providers in general, so that trans-nationals who do not seek specialized assistance are treated with respect and do not feel barriers to seeking help. The health offer is the responsibility of the Minister for Health, but I would like to look with my colleague at how I can support him from my powers. Not all transpersonalities indicate that they need help, but the differences in the regions are striking. Research carried out by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men also found in 2018 that transpersons from the Walloon Region are significantly less often seeking help. We are talking about 58 %, whereas in the Flemish region that percentage is 81 %. For the Brussels-Capital Region, the figure is 66%. The limited supply of specialised transgender care in the Walloon Region certainly plays a role in this. At the end of 2015, the Transgender Infopunt received a once-only funding from the Institute to create a French speaking part of its website. On the French-speaking side, the transgender organisation Genres Pluriels received the same funding for the translation of her website into Dutch. This funding was one-off. The savings on the Institute's budget and the abolition of its project grants already made it difficult to provide structural support for these projects from the Institute. The operation of the TIP is hampered by subsidies from the Flemish government. I will present this project to my colleagues in the French Community and look with them to see if this initiative can be supported. The research of the institute did give an idea of the experiences of transpersonal beings in Belgium. This study also covered experience in the field of care and assistance. It would certainly be useful to discuss this in greater depth in a separate study. I will look with the Health Minister at how we can organise such an investigation together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, a few elements. I am convinced, together with you, that the limited numbers we see in Wallonia are related to the limited offer in the Walloon Region. Of course, that is very unfortunate for our Walloon compatriots. We really need to do something about that. I understand that continuing to support this is not a core task of the Institute. I can understand that. Somehow, however, it has to be done. I continue to call for a special strengthening of the operation in the Walloon region, so to speak: to start up so that people can find a place there too. On the other hand, the services already provided in Flanders must be extended. As I said, apart from the small mouse passes in Genk and Antwerp, that's not a reproach, let's be clear, because it's not obvious that little is happening. When we see that there are 100 applications per month in Amsterdam, we know what is coming to us. We must act proactively, both in the Walloon region and on the Flemish side. In any case, thank you very much for your commitment. I'll cut it back in a couple of months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55013676C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u80	Madam Secretary of State, during the presentation of Unia's Corona Report on 3 February, worrying figures were mentioned. Dealing with the virus is difficult for everyone, but for some population groups, the measures to suppress the virus are much more difficult than for others. Women are overrepresented in sectors that were more susceptible to infection, such as health care, education and cleaning. Because the sanitary measures urge us to stay at home as much as possible and to see as few people as possible, the importance of the internet and getting lost in the virtual world are more important than ever. However, 25% of women and even 27.1% of young women have never used the Internet. So we have to work from home more often and notice that there is a difference between the ease of use of the Internet among women and men. This is a discrepancy which must be of concern to us. Do you come to the same conclusions as Unia? Will you also raise this concern at the forthcoming Inter-Ministerial Conference (IMC) Women's Rights? What actions will you take to tackle this specific but worrying discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u81	Thank you for your question, Mrs Jiroflée. The growing digitalisation has already been a challenge for society for the COVID-19 pandemic and a focus on federal equality policies. With the acceleration of digitisation by COVID-19, extra attention is certainly important. The institute has already collected some figures on digital technologies. For example, in 2018, 10% of women and 7% of men in Belgium had never consulted the Internet. The figures from the Unia study confirm that the gender gap is larger for the group of older and low-skilled people. The agenda of the IMC Women's Rights is determined by the Presidency, which is currently in the hands of the Walloon Region and the German-speaking Community. For the agenda items where the digital gender gap is relevant, I will of course not hesitate to refer to it. In terms of concrete action, I consider the application of gender mainstreaming to the activities related to the digital agenda to be very important. I will encourage my colleagues, the Telecommunications Ministers and the Secretary of State for Digitisation to pay attention to the different situations of women and men in the elaboration of their actions on digitalisation. As part of the recovery plan, I myself envisage a project that will address the situation of vulnerable women in the labour market, with particular attention to the impact of digitalisation on those women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic403x.u82	Of course, everything's still in its infancy. You can already count on me to strengthen your efforts, Madam Secretary of State, because I will put the same question to the Minister responsible for the digital agenda and see where we can find each other.
