ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u1	Madam Minister, many rural border municipalities such as Moerbeke, where I live, one of the beautiful border municipalities, are confronted with the presence of white zones, where people do not have access to a high-quality network for internet and mobile telephony. You have already received a question about this at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs of 28 April 2021 and confirmed that by 2025 you want to give the remaining 2.7 % of households access to networks that have a minimum download rate of 100 megabits per second, which is a comfortable speed for participation in videoconferencing. In order to build the networks, incentives are needed for telecom companies and, on the other hand, investment by the public authorities themselves in areas which are not of interest to these companies. Your cabinet is currently drawing up a plan for this. The families concerned will eventually pay the same price as other families in Belgium. When will the plan be ready? What is the current state of the plan? Do you already have an indication of the necessary budget that will be needed and how much will be allocated? Which areas or municipalities should certainly be included in the plan? Have you mapped them yet? You are also talking about incentives for businesses, which have resulted in networks for 50,000 Walloon families. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? Are there such plans for Flanders? Finally, are you planning temporary allowances or an alternative way for families who are not currently provided with a download rate of 10 megabits per second, but who do have to work at home or attend home education due to the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u2	Mr De Caluwé, the content of the broadband plan was approved at the Council of Ministers on 30 April 2021, on the understanding that the related budgets will be discussed during the budget presentation 2021-2022. The main axes of the plan have therefore been worked out, but are still waiting for the allocation of resources. We will certainly return to the dossier in the context of the budget discussion 2022. One of the axes for which I see the need for intervention is indeed the coverage of the so-called white zones, where there is currently no fast fixed internet connection and where different families avoid the chance of teleworking and homeschooling. For this, we really do receive EUR tens of million in grants, which operators will have to cross the line to invest in these areas, while otherwise it will not be economically profitable for them to build fixed networks. You can understand that these last connections are the most expensive for operators. The white zones are already mapped by the BIPT, the regulator, via the atlas cards, which are updated annually and can be consulted online by any citizen. That identification tool will also form the basis of the grant process for the white zones that do not have a fixed internet speed of 100 megabits per second. As far as your question on public incentives is concerned, BIPT has taken measures from 2018 to improve coverage for families affected by a lack of connectivity. These are regulatory measures that are beneficial for investments such as reduced regulation when a network is rolled out in white zones. In doing so, an operator must temporarily not grant access to its network to third parties, thereby making it more secure of the return on its investment, whereas that costs nothing to the public authorities. In addition, reducing the cost of jet connections is an incentive to connect the most remote villages. The discount of 80% for a period of 10 years would cost the government annually hypothetically 200,000 euros of lost income, fees. However, many jet connections would not be created without the discount measure, which would mean that there would be no revenue. Since several tens of thousands of households have been provided with an Internet connection of at least 30 megabits per second since 2018, the benefits certainly seem to outweigh the costs. As a result of the incentives, about 2,500 families are provided with such a fast internet connection in Flanders. This is less than in the Walloon Region, because the Flemish Region itself is already very well connected with a coverage of 99.5% for a speed of 100 megabits per second. In the Walloon Region, the coverage rate is 92.3% for the same speed. As far as our further search for solutions and incentives is concerned, I would like to refer to the roll-out of 5G, which can provide an additional tool to significantly improve both mobile coverage and speeds. We suspect that we will apply solutions specifically in the white zones that, in addition to cable connections, fiber optics connections, also use 5G technology. The coverage obligation for the 700 MHz band in that 5G story will be increased to 99.8 % in the long term. In addition, there is the fact that this band itself also provides a better propagation compared to existing higher bands. That's just physics. In addition, the telecoms law states that every citizen has the right to access the appropriate Internet. This means that the user must have access to a number of services, such as video calls, internet banking, e-government and social media, which are needed to participate in society. At the moment, the minimum speed is set at 1 megabit per second, but we want to review it shortly to meet the requirements of the European Code of Conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear and comprehensive answer. I am pleased that you recognise the importance of good network coverage, both in mobile telephony and in fixed internet, including in remote areas. I am also pleased that you are setting up initiatives to support the operators to build that network. Good internet connection and access to good mobile telephony are extremely important and this importance will only increase. Undoubtedly, in my municipality, but also in other border areas, many people are now happy with your initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u4	Madam Minister, the Brussels Citizens' Commission wants to introduce 5G-free zones in the Brussels-Capital Region. The Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region still has to decide whether it will follow this recommendation further. It has six months to do this. What is your opinion on entering 5G-free zones? Do you think that's a good idea? If so, how would you deal with this in concrete terms? How can we reconcile these zones with the different coverage requirements that have been set? In the context of the auction, was it also agreed with the Brussels-Capital Region to adjust the radiation standards in line with those of the Flemish Region? How can operators reach the coverage requirements without this adjustment? According to the federal government, exposure to mobile radiation at current levels is harmful to health? What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u5	Mrs Dierick, my prepared answer is also partly addressed to Mrs Verhaert. The legislative framework that will allow the multi-band auction, including 5G, consists of a law and 5KBs and has already gone a long way, as you know. At the conciliation committee at the end of May it was decided to adopt the law and have it voted on in Parliament, which has also happened in the meantime. Now we have a legal basis to ask for the opinion of the Council of State on the KBs. The Consultative Committee first wished to see the opinion of the Council of State taken into account before approving the contents of the Royal Decrees and making the final choice as to the fourth or non-fourth player. Once these steps have been taken, I will return the dossier to the Consultation Committee, perhaps after the summer recess. Depending on this, the auction may take place just in the first quarter of 2022. I believe that this will be in March or April, but I hope, along with you, that it will not be postponed any longer. We have to follow the procedure, you understand. When all this is done, the regulator BIPT will need a number of months to launch a call, select candidates, develop the software based on the technical features contained in the KBs, so one has to wait for the decision about the KBs to adapt the software to it and then organise trainings for the candidates about that software. I am told that all this will take a number of months. It is crucial to develop the knowledge of 5G among the population. It is good to stress that we need to take the citizens' concerns about 5G seriously. Therefore, with the Regions and the Communities, a neutral 5G knowledge and learning platform has been established, and I am pressing neutral ones that are now online at www.over5g.be. The aim is to inform citizens and also to monitor a number of aspects or side effects of 5G, if you like, which could potentially occur and which would cause concern. The first concerns health aspects and energy consumption of 5G. A Scientific Advisory Board has been appointed with experts who will analyse what information comes on the platform. That must allow us to maintain the necessary neutrality. For example, campaigns or other communication channels can be linked to the platform to reach the population. There was the very important question about regional radiation standards. First of all, I would like to say that this is not a federal but a regional competence. The Axon study made at the request of the Consultation Committee showed that the current radiation standard in Brussels is likely to make a realistic roll-out of 5G difficult. This is based on BIPT findings and recommendations on radiation standards in the past. This means, for the Brussels-Capital Region, that when a possible fourth player arrives, taking into account the cumulative standard, unlike Flanders and Wallonia, the total amount of radiation must be divided by four instead of three, which means that the total radiation level in Brussels remains the same. In Brussels this standard is respected anyway, but it will of course be more difficult for operators to roll out 5G if they have four instead of three and even three operators. We know that these are the facts. In Flanders and Wallonia, these standards are indeed different. There is a standard there per technology and per operator and the radiation of the new player just comes on top of that. This means that a fourth player will bring 33% more radiation than the three existing operators. Of course we must see the 5G radiation together with the current 3G and 4G radiation. I repeat that radiation standards will have to be respected by operators in the roll-out of 5G. They have been introduced to protect public health. The Regions are competent to decide in that regard. In the three regions of Belgium, standards are currently stricter than those recommended by Europe. Personally, I think that this makes us very safe, that it is good if we apply the precautionary principle and that this is reassuring. I will not comment on what every region should do. Nor do I think it is realistic to think that they would adopt a common standard. It's just their autonomous choice to choose one system or another. Nor do I rule out the fact that these standards will change in the future because 5G also needs to find a completely different way of measuring radiation. That really is another technology, which means that the measurement of the total amount of radiation at 5G cannot be compared to the total amount at 4G. That's how our experts told us. As regards the question about the Brussels Citizens' Commission and the 5G-free zones, the BIPT informs me that it does not currently have any information on technical methods that could possibly be used to identify those zones or their size. It also has no information on any legal basis that could impose these 5G-free zones. As far as the legal basis is concerned, this could at first sight be contrary to the principle of technological neutrality imposed by European legislation because there is no way of imposing a difference between 3G, 4G and 5G in the context of technological neutrality. It is very difficult to make a difference there specifically for 5G. That's the technical and legal information I've been given. As far as its impact is concerned, if 5G-free zones can be provided, it is difficult to say a lot about their impact as we do not know all 5G applications yet. For example, our security and emergency services, which will use the 5G networks of mobile operators for the ASTRID network, could have a problem if there were 5G-free zones as communication in the event of an emergency could then completely disappear. That is certainly a concern which must be addressed. As regards compatibility with the coverage obligations, the draft text adopted in January gives the BIPT the possibility to grant derogations in case of force majeure. The coverage obligations are set, but there can always be force majeure. Then the BIPT can allow a deviation. So it seems difficult to imagine that BIPT would punish operators because they would not cover certain areas with 5G because, for example, a Region would prevent them from doing so. That would be a strange situation. The 5G consultation committee in Brussels has made a proposal to raise the radiation standard to 14.5 volts per metre. That is indeed what the BIPT has proposed as a possible standard to roll out 5G networks. Any proposals relating to standards for the Brussels Region and what will happen with them are not, of course, a federal competence. I will not therefore venture to say anything about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u6	You have given a very comprehensive answer, especially around the 5G-free zones, for which I would like to thank you. These free zones seem to be a good principle, but there are still a lot of legal and technical questions, first and foremost whether they can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u7	Test-Achats recently conducted a comparative study between the Belgian telecom prices and those in seven other countries. This shows that surfing in our neighbouring countries is on average 30% cheaper than ours. Previously, reports from the Belgian telecom watchdog, the BIPT, and the European Commission also showed that the Belgian telecom prices were high. There is therefore a need for more competition in the Belgian telecoms market and the 5G auction just creates the possibility to add a fourth mobile network operator to the telecoms landscape. Will the auction allow a fully-fledged fourth operator to roll out a network in all market segments and technologies? What initiatives will you take to reduce telecom prices? How will you ensure that consumers can change telecommunications operators more easily and quickly in the case of family bundles, thereby increasing competitiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u8	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u9	We raised the issue last week in connection with Rule 30, both in committee and in plenary. Test-Achats has done a study on the tariffs of telecom subscriptions. The findings are in line with previous studies. In particular, it concerns a study published by the European Commission in December 2020, in which Belgium is 15th state in the ranking of 28 Member States for standalone mobile subscriptions, 22nd for the bundled offers of internet, TV and mobile telephony and 25th overall at the end of the peloton for fixed internet. The fact that the evolution of Belgian prices is stabilizing does not necessarily have an impact on ranking, as it can also be changed by price developments in other European countries. A ranking is always relative. Test-Achats has a point that in a market economy competition is one of the better ways to lower prices and promote innovation. Competition in the mobile market can come from existing or new MNEs or MNEs. A fourth player with his own network and licenses can thus exert better pressure on the market than a virtual operator with a limited market share. That is why the discussion about spectrum reservation for a new operator is so important, because it is ultimately a unique opportunity to allow a fourth operator to enter our market in the next 20 years. The competitive pressure exerted by virtual operators can then be eliminated through takeovers by the operators who have their own network. I note that affordability is mainly a problem on the fixed market. For that market there is certainly interest, we understand: a candidate buyer of VOO would also want to buy a mobile license in addition to the fixed network. This can make a difference on the telecoms market as a whole and not just on the mobile segment, because a player who has both a fixed and a mobile network can, of course, have more impact on the market, which may result in prices being printed for consumers. The regulation of wholesale prices can, of course, stimulate competition, which reduces prices for consumers. Finally, the price pressure of informed consumers can come: other mechanisms could be put in place - there was also a demand for this - rather than more competition on the market. I refer to the Easy Switch story which makes it easy to change operators. The bundle policy of operators, on the other hand, pushes customers to triple-play bundles with television, internet and mobile, which rather weakens customer turnover. In addition to competition, therefore, other mechanisms need to be developed and published in order to reduce prices. In other words, Mrs Dierick and Mr Freilich: yes, the auction can lead to a fully-fledged fourth operator who can become active in all market segments, from mobile to fixed, and technologies. Following the adoption of the law by the plenary on 17 June last week, the requests for opinions on the CRAs, as requested in the Consultation Committee, were sent to the Council of State and we expect the opinions after the summer recess. So we really have no choice but to wait for the process before the Consultative Committee is called together and the knot around a possible fourth player can be definitively cut. I hope that I have answered your questions sufficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u10	Madam Minister, you have provided enough information and I share your view that there may be a fourth player, which is conducive to reducing prices. It is an en-en-story; consumers must also be aware that they can easily switch operators. This too will undoubtedly have an effect on prices. I therefore hope that we can focus on both aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u11	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, the government wants to require not only telecom providers, but also services such as Whatsapp, Telegram or Facebook messenger to store their user data and keep them at the disposal of the court. In addition, more bodies will also have access to this data. I read that in the media. The aim of a new draft law is not only to gain access to the telecom metadata of almost everyone on Belgian territory, but also to access encrypted information in chat applications. The European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court recently considered that the retention of communication data is contrary to the right to privacy. The so-called data retention law was therefore destroyed by the Constitutional Court on 24 April 2021. With the new bill, the government not only ignores this judgment, but even goes a whole lot further. The organisations that challenged the law last time before the Constitutional Court, such as the League of Human Rights, have already indicated that they will again take legal action against this new law. Keeping this data is a source of information for the fight against crimes such as terrorism, drug trafficking and so on, as well as for the detection of missing persons, but that should not be a free pass to ignore the right to privacy of all citizens. Moreover, the court has other means at its disposal, such as the invoicing data which can still be requested from the telecom operators. There are also camera images available in many busy places nowadays, which can be viewed. When I recently asked about the destruction of the data retention law by the Constitutional Court whether you would take initiatives to develop an alternative to the destroyed law, I did not, of course, mean a law that goes much further than the old, destroyed data retention law, but legislation that takes into account the citizens' right to privacy. Will you, or the entire government, take into account the major concerns of the League of Human Rights regarding the protection of privacy? Will you, or the government, amend the new bill so that citizens' privacy is safeguarded? Do you believe that accessing encrypted information in messages and chat applications, such as Whatsapp and Signal, is a very dangerous evolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u12	Mr President, Mr Gilissen, I will answer your three questions separately. Firstly, as regards the concerns of the League of Human Rights, you should know that a public consultation of four weeks was organised on the preliminary draft law and draft royal decree and that we were not allowed to contribute to that, which is a pity. However, the government will have to take into account and take into account the opinions of the various data protection authorities - the Data Protection Authority, but also the Supervisory Body on Police Information and the Standing Supervisory Committee on Intelligence and Security - and, if necessary, make the necessary adjustments in the light of the protection of the right to respect for private life. With regard to your second question, the draft law which is being prepared aims to bring Belgian legislation on data retention into line with the case law of the Court of Justice on the right to respect for private life. Contrary to what you are saying, the government is convinced that this draft meets this objective and that we will thus enrol in European justice, as it should in a rule of law. If the opinions of the different data authorities show that certain changes are needed to safeguard the right to respect for private life, the government will take this into account. I repeat myself, but it is important to stress that again. In any case, as a minister, I will continue to defend privacy as a value and fundamental right, knowing that this fundamental right must be weighed against the right to security and that finding the right balance between the two fundamental rights is not always clear and perhaps open to discussion. That is the reality, you will agree with me. I am convinced that this government has drawn up a draft that strikes this balance and reconciles both fundamental rights. I have no doubt that this draft will pass the test of the Belgian and European courts. In reply to your third question, I would point out that the Code of Criminal Procedure and the law on intelligence and security services already provide for the possibility of access to electronic communications in the context of a judicial investigation, albeit under very strict conditions. So that doesn't really change the current situation. The preliminary draft Directive merely lays down the obligation for operators using encryption systems to allow such access technically. As already mentioned, such access can only be obtained under very strict conditions in the context of a judicial investigation or an investigation by the intelligence and security services. The obligation was already there and is there. Now it is made very clear that encryption cannot be a reason not to grant access under very strict conditions. The importance of the possibility of accessing different forms of electronic communications in the context of a judicial investigation into, for example, serious crime or terrorism has recently been clearly demonstrated in the case of Sky ECC, which, as you know, has been extensively published in the press. It has demonstrated the need for the legal provision to be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Firstly, we regret that we need to hear this through the media. I have not yet been able to look at the text of the preliminary draft. So I will continue with the coverage that has appeared in the media, to keep my interplay. We are therefore somewhat disappointed that Members have not been informed of the content before. With the possibility of accessing encrypted information, when police have access to it, a kind of backdoor or backdoor is built into such chat applications. Over the last few weeks and months, we have been able to find ourselves at a very high risk of hacking. Building such a back door, naturally increases that risk of hacking. After all, any opening that is left means a point where the hackers could attack. The widespread monitoring of all kinds of information about citizens is already a clear violation of privacy for the Flemish Interest. Where such information is kept, it should be linked to certain investigations, where there is a suspicion of a crime. Anyone's data can't just be tracked. The new data retention legislation should clearly define this and define the limits within which such information may be kept, requested and accessed. The Constitutional Court destroyed the previous data retention law. It is clear that the new data retention law must not go in the same direction and must certainly pass the test with the Constitutional Court. As I have already mentioned in my questions, the fight against crime is also important for the Flemish interest. There must be funds available for judicial investigations, but the privacy of citizens must of course be respected. To this end, I have also tabled a motion which I have just handed over to the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic533x.u14	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Erik Gilissen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, - having regard to the preliminary draft law on the retention of user data, - having regard to the general security risks which may arise from providing certain authorities with access to encrypted information and a possible breach of the confidentiality of the letter, - having regard to the need to protect the privacy of citizens, - having regard to the value of data collected by data retention in the fight against crime, - having regard to the destruction of the previous law on data retention by the Constitutional Court; calls on the Government develop a balanced legislative framework on data retention and access to encrypted information with due regard for the privacy of citizens, respect for the secret of letters and the presumption of innocence to prove otherwise, and also pass the test by the Constitutional Court." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de M. Erik Gilissen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, - having regard to the preliminary draft law on the retention of user data; - in view of the general security risks which may arise from the granting of access to encrypted information to certain bodies, and the possibility of violation of the secrecy of letters; - in view of the need to protect the privacy of citizens; - given the value of data collected through data retention in the fight against crime; - having regard to the annulment of the previous law on the retention of data by the Constitutional Court; asks the government to establish a balanced legislative framework for the retention of data and access to encrypted information, which takes into account respect for privacy, respect for the secrecy of letters and presumption of innocence until proven otherwise, and which can satisfy the examination by the Constitutional Court." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Albert Vicaire. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Albert Vicar. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55017077C, 55019243C and 55019432C by Mrs Depraetere are converted into written questions, since she is present in plenary.
