ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u1	Mr President, Minister, ten days ago, I was asking you for the umpteenth time about the situation of medical specialists in training (MACS). Without them, let us recall, hospitals would not be able to turn. They are in the oven and in the mill, with exhausting hours - up to 60 or 80 hours a week, and sometimes 36 hours in a row without rest. You know that discussions are under way in the well-known Joint Medical-Hospital Committee, which has already met several times. Let us make it clear that the first proposal made by the hospitals was totally indecent. There is a real obligation to move forward, on the one hand, in terms of contract, remuneration, social status, health insurance, pension, maternity and paternity leave and, on the other hand, in terms of respect for working time and - and this is a crucial aspect for patients - on the quality of training. MACS have received support from the major medical unions, but also from the College of Physicians, which recalls that this must be done in acceptable working conditions and with equitable social security coverage. A strike notice was announced from 20 May, with a potential impact on patients. Minister, where are you in these tripartite discussions with the Joint Committee? What budget will be needed to remedy the various points I have just mentioned? What is the timetable for success? This is really an emergency given this strike notice. I would like to hope for a more detailed answer today than ten days ago. You then announced that a budget would be added to the famous 10 million, but you know, like me, that this 10 million represents only a small budget in relation to the means needed to truly meet the status, respect for working time and the quality of training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u2	Mrs. Samyn is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u3	Mr Minister, Mr Fonck has already explained this very well. This is not a new problem either: the doctors-specialists in training have been working for decades for better working conditions, simply reasonable working conditions. For ten years there has been a law on the working time of the ASOs. However, according to my question to then Minister Nathalie Muylle last year, there were no figures at all on the working hours of ASOs and there has never been a specific labour inspection on working hours, nor an audit on the working hours of ASOs. This shows that there is a problem, which is also accentuated by the corona crisis, precisely because doctors-specialists in training are being fully deployed to tackle the crisis. Mr Minister, there are discussions at the moment. What about that, because the deadline has already been postponed a few times? Is there any progress at last? Will the deadline be met this time? How will you address the main pain points? This concerns in particular the separation between the functions of employer and internship master. How will you ensure that independent checks on working conditions will be carried out in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u4	Mr President, Minister, it seems to me rare to see doctors calling for a strike. After all the hospital staff, it is also the medical specialists in training whose vase has overflowed. They told us about it. In their survey, 25% reported increasing their consumption of alcohol and tobacco or other products to cope with stress. It is also true that the situation is not new. I was personally very shocked by some of the testimonies. For example, at the VRT, there was a testimony from a young female doctor who anonymously told her how she ended up in the ER at night on 30 weeks of pregnancy with a bleed herself. Then she was told: "The baby's still alive, go on working." A doctor would normally never say that to a patient in such a condition. But that was said to this colleague here. They are often afraid of the consequences for their careers and the quality of their training. That's why they don't always talk about the abuse, the abuses, the high number of working hours and the stress they experience in hospitals. Today they have decided to break the taboo and there are a lot of testimonies coming up that are coming up very hard. An effort has been made for the nursing staff, after the actions. It is also necessary to improve the situation of specialists in training, as was the case with general practitioners in training a number of years ago. There, the creation of a third party has been able to reduce the pressure placed by the internship master on the candidate being trained. For example, there is more certainty about working hours and they have also become more normal. Since then, the quality of training has also improved. You said that for the time being you would be paying EUR 10 million for this, but at the moment there are about 6,000 specialists in training. An opinion piece has also been published which suggests that this would be far too little. How do you see this? Will you take seriously the distress cry that the medical specialists in training send you? They deserve respect, also for the quality of care for patients. I support them. As you know, if there is no agreement, new actions are planned on 20 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u5	Minister, I agree with the questions about the changes to the statute for doctors-specialists in training, which are under negotiation. Almost two in ten future doctors-specialists are currently considering dropping out of their training, partly because of the many working hours, low recovery time and the fact that they do not build up a pension or parental leave. Minister, what steps are you taking with regard to this statute? Is there an absolute deadline? What if there's no agreement coming out of the bus? I also share the concern about the financial impact of the new statute on hospitals. You have previously announced that you will clear a budget. How big will that budget be? What conditions do you attach to that? What do you want the budget to be spent on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, my colleagues have already mentioned the context that brings us to this topical debate today. We were able to hear the medical assistants clinician candidates specialists (MACCS) in the framework of the special Covid commission. On that occasion, they told us of their commitment, which we had no doubt about, as well as that of all the caregivers in the current crisis. They also told us of their moral and physical fatigue and their expectations for real consideration and recognition. What they received a few days ago from the hospital federations, it's not a thank you, it's a real slap. It is not a contract that proposes improvements. On the contrary, it is an aberrant contract that imposes a clear setback on these doctors in training. It is really a requisition of skills that leads them today, despite their passion for their profession, to have to file a strike notice and threaten to go on strike on May 20th. This situation, on which the emphasis is placed today, is unfortunately not new. Already in 2017, Laurent Hermoye pointed out in a carte blanche this difficulty and this lack of recognition of doctors in training. He recalled it in La Libre Belgique, recently. The situation has not changed; it is only declining. While the law of 12 December 2010 defines the working conditions of doctors in training – Laurette Onkelinx has also worked a lot to improve these conditions – we must now see too many violations of this working environment. Minister, my questions are simple and are in line with those that have already been asked by my colleagues. You confirmed in plenary ten million euros to facilitate the medico-mutualist agreement. You have stated that you are prepared to add additional resources. What additional means could be unlocked? How do you plan to improve the social rights of MACCS in terms of their remuneration and pension and sickness coverage, but also in terms of their working time and overtime rules? Are you planning to meet with hospital representatives and federations to try, I hope, to get a conciliation and an agreement where everyone would come out winning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has been outlined very clearly. There are actually two aspects to the debate. The first aspect is the social status in itself, where there are many gaps in the sui-generis status today, for example in the area of unemployment and retirement. That's out of date. The social status that was created at that time must also be placed within a certain time frame. However, a lot has evolved, including in health care. The good example that general practitioners have today in the context of their training should also make it possible to improve the status of specialists in training. The second aspect is working conditions. Mrs Gijbels, you made it very clear, but it is true that in the spring I found that the Labour Inspectorate carried out very few checks on that legislation. We asked for this to be speeded up. I heard afterwards that the second part of Corona also stopped, which is a pity. Highly worrying is that the checks carried out, although there were about 44 checks in hospitals, resulted in a total of 61 warnings and 23 regularisations. In the area of pay and overtime, 2,975 employees were involved for 324,000 euros in these regularisations. That's not very small. On the basis of 44 checks, these figures are worrying and show the sharpness of the problem. I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. How far is the proposal on the table? What are you prepared to add to the debate? What is your roadmap for the coming time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u8	Minister, many of us had the opportunity to ask you about this in the plenary session of April 29 - the day when the medical specialists in training, but also the students, had observed an hour off work to challenge the scandalous labour agreement proposed to them by the university hospitals. On that occasion, you made a number of commitments. First, you promised to follow closely the ongoing discussions within the Joint National Commission of Hospital Physicians. You announced a meeting for May 5 and 19. Secondly, you assured us that you wanted to bring the final agreement on salaries, contracts and training conditions - an agreement which requires tangible improvement - into regulation before 1 August, but also, with a view to facilitating it, to provide additional budgetary resources to the initial EUR 10 million. Today, the first meeting is behind us. On the eve of the second one you announced to us, the doctors and students concerned have still not been successful, since the agreement proposed at the end of the May 5 meeting would be a status quo. My colleagues have rightly pointed out that, in the absence of a satisfactory decision in the Joint Committee, doctors in training would go on a total strike for an indefinite period. This ultimate action will be carried out in the hope of achieving a change in their working conditions, which remain absolutely unworthy. Minister, my questions will be with those of my colleagues. Have you met with the representatives of the specialist candidates? If so, what has emerged? What is the schedule that has been developed? Can you tell us more about the additional budgetary resources that can be allocated, in order to facilitate a respectful agreement with these doctors? Finally, I wanted to report to you pressure from some probationary teachers and hospitals to try to prevent assistants from exercising their legitimate right to strike this Thursday - for example, they are threatened with being unable to be hired by the institution that currently employs them. How do you react to these facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u9	Minister, I no longer have to explain myself and I would like to join in the remarks made by my fellow Members. In any case, it is appalling that doctors-specialists in training (ASOs) have been negotiating for a year and that the hospital federation, in the middle of the corona pandemic, in which the ASOs have contributed to their approach, is proposing to adapt the working conditions for doctors-specialists in training. If that is an adjustment in the right way, we could applaud it, but unfortunately we have to note that the hospital federation still dares to deteriorate certain conditions of employment, while the statute raises a lot of questions. Can the hospital federation simply change the general conditions of employment? Will you change the status of the ASOs and the status of the HAIOs and extend the RSZ deduction on their salary as an employee, as for all employees, also mandatory for the purposes of retirement, unemployment benefit, holiday allowance and minimum waiting allowance? What will you do to achieve an acceptable statute for the group, knowing that the statute has not been amended since 1983? How will you enforce the training criteria, as there is now too close a link between the employer and the internship master? How will you check the maximum working time laid down in their statute? It is 48 hours, or 60 hours at most in the event of an opt-out, and is now often exceeded, which is not only unacceptable but also dangerous and can even cost lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u10	Mr President, I think that when they started their university studies, medical specialists would probably never have imagined that they would have had to strike during their training. This shows the total indignity of the status and conditions offered to them today in hospitals. Everything proposed by the hospital federations, in terms of the remuneration of guards, the remuneration of overtime and the control of hours, is absolutely unacceptable and requires a very strong and strong reaction from the Minister of Health. This seems absolutely indispensable to me. There is the whole problem of status and working conditions, but there is also the ambiguity between training and master's degree on the one hand, and employee-employer relations on the other. Until we resolve this, the situation will remain extremely weak. Minister, how are you going to ensure a proper status for physician hospital assistants? What are the current collaborative relationships between MACCS and hospital federations? What budgets are available to find a solution to this problem? How will you resolve this ambiguous situation between training and work provided for an employer? It seems to me that these relationships need to find a much clearer definition, which would no doubt make it possible to find solutions to the status of these doctors in training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I will have to repeat what I said in plenary last week. It is well known that the status of doctors-specialists in training is inadequate and that the working conditions are problematic. The situation is appalling. It is therefore my absolute priority to help improve this. That has been said a few times. That was also part of our policy statement. I believe that the awareness of young doctors involved in training is also very important and rightly puts even more pressure on the general public and everyone involved in policy. I will not say too much today, because there is a consultation at the National Joint Committee on Doctors' Hospitals. This consultation is led by Jo De Cock, administrator-general of the RIZIV and chairman of the National Joint Committee on Doctors Hospitals. I think that with Jo De Cock we have the right person in the right place to drag a good deal out of the fire in a difficult discussion. These include the question of financial valuation, the issue of watchkeeping fees, agreements with hospitals and the question of whether they can be standardised, the problem of overtime and social protection aspects, such as what happens in the case of diseases, among others. I believe it should be possible to reach an agreement on a concrete package of measures that we should see translated into concrete legislation by 1 August this year. This is an important policy deadline, which is also essential for the doctors-specialists in training themselves. Those negotiations are now accelerating. There's another crucial meeting tomorrow. I don't want to say too much about that. I would like to reiterate that, in addition to the EUR 10 million provided under the latest Medicomut agreement, I would like to make additional financial resources available from our budget, which I believe should enable us to reach an acceptable agreement. I have every confidence that that will happen. That's all I'm saying today. In any case, I think it is essential to improve the status of doctors-specialists in training. I therefore call on all those at the negotiating table to have the necessary sense of responsibility and ambition to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u12	Minister, you are calling on everyone. It seems to me that it would be more useful to appeal to you, because when I hear all the political statements of the ministers, with so much support (including from the Vivaldi majority parties), I do not understand very well why an agreement could not be finalized. On August 1st, it's not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Depending on the current hospital rhythm with the strike announced this Thursday, it seems far too far away. You know the financial situation of hospitals. Making an appeal to the actors around the table (unless you also launch it at INAMI), this means that it is impossible to meet and upgrade MACS to what is needed without more ad hoc funding. If you send this back to all the hospitals, they'll have to put the key under the doormat. I appeal to you to take a different stance than to say, "It's probably possible." You must put a strong will in it, put the means in it and get involved in it personally. And all of this has to be done at a much faster pace than the referral to August 1. MACS, but also all patients, are waiting for concrete progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. There has been no significant improvement for doctors in training for years, despite a bill introduced in 2017 by my colleague Muriel Gerkens to change their status. According to the report of the May 9, 2017 hearing in the Federal Parliament, all political parties were on the same page. The preferred solution was the establishment of an intermediate and independent body between assistants and hospitals as is the case for general practitioners. However, this solution, like the introduction of a full status, has not yet emerged. We updated this bill with stakeholders following the covid hearings. We are therefore at your disposal, Minister, to bring this matter to a successful conclusion during this Parliament because it has really been too long since these medical specialists were waiting to receive full coverage and a worthy recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u14	Minister, I regret that I do not hear much concrete evidence, although I understand that the negotiations are still ongoing. The fact that, after a year of talking, a proposal is on the table that is really unacceptable, particularly indicates that the problem is not being understood. I find that very disturbing. Also, moving the deadline over and over does not reassure me. If necessary, I expect you to give me a push, go ahead, yes, go ahead. I had also really hoped to hear your opinion or a proposal on a concrete approach. It is not only the conditions of employment that need to be improved, but also the control of them. Employer and teacher must be separated from each other in order to achieve a sustainable solution that can be controlled. A good example is the status of the HAIOs. The medical specialists in training would be satisfied with that statute, and they could agree to it. I therefore wonder why you are not simply going to do so. This statute is already known and can be built on. I really hope that progress will be made quickly now, because I do not really understand where the buttons are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u15	Minister, you have given a very careful answer, and that is surprising. Doctors really shoot in action. In recent times, numerous testimonies have also emerged. When I studied as a doctor twenty years ago, I heard similar testimonies, because assistants with whom I served watchkeeping, cried and talked about their working conditions. The question, what if there is no agreement tomorrow, remains unanswered. In that sense, your answer is disappointing. The existing status of general practitioners in training can be used. The possibility of a solution is available. A third party must be created. In general practitioners, this has really improved the situation. That is why I am surprised that you are so cautious in your reply. If there is no agreement tomorrow, the doctors-specialists in training will take further action, I think. To this end, I believe that they will receive the support of the other staff, whose water is still at their disposal, partly because of the corona crisis and the limited funding of recent years. There must be a solution by August, given the next academic year. I think there are still some actions to be taken to ensure that this is done. Finally, the general situation of hospitals should also be reviewed. Hospitals are more and more companies, with a view to profitability and where performance is encouraged. You announced that you will be thinking about a reform of the whole performance-related system, which is actually sickening. It makes the people who have to work in that system sick and is also not good for the quality of care. We must enter into this discussion. Why do we not opt for a system of paid employment, of course a good wage, for doctors at the start of their training but also after? Is the link between the number of performances delivered and the income still relevant and is it not bad for quality? Should we not focus more on the quality and intrinsic motivation of doctors? This is also a message that we can distil out from the protests of the doctors lately, and we must get to grips with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I agree that you are cautious. I take it this isn't to jeopardize the conversations. I understand that negotiation also requires a certain discretion. So I can understand that. Of course, we will certainly come back to this problem. After all, we hope that a solution will be found soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u17	Minister, your answer is at least a defensive response. I was hoping for a little more perspective because the stories on Instagram on "BalanceTonHosto" are terrible. This situation does not date from yesterday. It affects the motivation of future doctors and, therefore, our health care and the quality of care that will be given to all patients tomorrow. I have no doubt about the goodwill of each of the parties. For your part, Minister, you say you want to put yourself around the table in order to bring about solutions. You gave the deadline of August 1, 2021. It's a good thing even though it's still far away. On the other hand, I did not hear what the dedicated means were to support the necessary upgrading of the MACCS because, today, hospitals still suffer from the consequences of underfunding that has been present for many years. Today, we cannot ask them for the impossible. This will also require support to allow for the consideration of the expectations of the MACCS. Tomorrow, a great deal of agreement will have to be reached that will make it possible to motivate the MACCS, which will be based on a framework that protects and gives them rights and which, unlike today, can be monitored. We need a framework that, tomorrow, will allow us to have specialist doctors who still have the passion for their profession. We will therefore be very much present and attentive to the situation and to the evolution of the discussions and negotiations. We wholeheartedly hope to achieve a real balance and a result that would avoid harmful consequences such as work stoppages, even if we understand them. Minister, it's up to you! You will have our support in the actions you will undertake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have every confidence in the discussions and, of course, in Jo De Cock, who has a lot of experience and will do very well. You have rightly referred to a number of points on the table. It is about a reference fee, overtime, thematic leave, expenses and so on, all of which are important. I think it will also be important to give young people a perspective in the context of a broad social status. In the context of unemployment and retirement, it is important to be able to present a roadmap, which will enable this to be resolved, together with the dual role. When I hear the discussion, I have a problem with the fact that people talk very often about conflict situations and ombudsmen who are involved when there are problems and can turn to an independent mechanism, which I support. There are a lot of situations that are not problematic and where there is a good relationship, but where, unfortunately, we have to note that no reference fee is paid and very often more than 60 hours are worked and the averages are not respected. There too, a student should be protected in the context of working hours. That is why I believe that an independent registration is appropriate. In that sense, I hope that they can be given a perspective in this area too, if an agreement is reached through the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u19	Minister, I do not thank you for your answer, which is far too short and leaves me cruelly hungry. I am extremely disappointed. I learn a lot more by reading the press than by asking you, whether it is the recording of hours worked or the remuneration in case of incapacity for work. You tell us that improving working and training conditions is your top priority. You tell us that you are working on a concrete package of measures by 31 August. But you do not tell us how you intend to reach this deadline with measures that respond to the demands of these doctors. We still do not know what the additional financial means are, when we all know that this is the nerve of war. Today, we are finally left with announcement effects. There is nothing concrete about working conditions, working time, quality of education, time spent on studies, equitable social security. In view of this answer, we are right to this strike announced by these medical specialists in training. As Philippe Devos said, their working conditions are such that they see themselves as "modern slaves". They have the right to strike, but I don't know if you're aware that this strike will have an impact on patients, on scheduled operations, on treatments. Minister, I appeal to your conscience about the urgency of the situation and the fact that the date of 1 August is far too far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Tomorrow's the deadline for an agreement. You said May 19th, not August 1st. I very much hope that structural solutions will finally be found there. After forty years one may indeed say 'finally'. You gave a very woolly answer. Your party's name is Vooruit, so let it move forward. It's not all trouble and torment. It is encouraging to see that many colleagues also seem to be concerned about the status of the ASO. I therefore hope that this will translate into a wide-ranging support for all constructive proposals on this long-standing problem. Minister, a few weeks ago I asked you a question about this in plenary and I said that we would do something if you did nothing. Our resolution to finally adapt the statute to modern standards is a matter of concern to the services of the Chamber, and I hope that the Members who are now screaming murder and fire will support this resolution with equal fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u21	Minister, I do not think that the clarity of the commitment is proportional to the length of the response. I want to stress once again that I am not sure that the Joint Medical-Hospital Committee is sufficient to find a solution. This is likely to be a solution for the organisation of work, in order to ensure that it is compatible with the dignity to which everyone is entitled. In addition to this, there is the problem of social status as such. It is not there that we will necessarily find all the modalities relating to a social status. Furthermore, as I said in my question, I would like to point out that there is an ambiguity between, on the one hand, the training doctor and traineeship teacher, who is in contact with the specialist candidate doctor, and, on the other hand, the administrative and financial structure of the hospital, which is in relation to both the specialist medical candidates and the training doctors and traineeships. At some point, this ambiguity must be resolved and the trainee teachers and medical trainers must not be taken hostage, as this would not be the right solution. I therefore believe that this problem needs to be addressed a little more broadly, and I am confident that you will be working on it. It seems to me that there is an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u22	This concludes the debate on the status of medical specialists in training. This debate will surely continue at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u23	Mr Minister, this debate as the previous one is coming back and will probably come back again, unfortunately. On 9 March, I asked you about the decision not to grant any more accreditation to the fibrosis centre of CHC MontLégia in Liège, with terrible consequences for patients, for the expert team and of course for the expertise in the general sense, in the interest of health care. At the time, you told me that there was no other alternative or need in view of the conditions set. You also indicated to me that we would depart from the objective of having centres of great expertise. Fortunately, since then, if you were unable to make arrangements, the Labour Court has temporarily decided to maintain the rights of all these patients to continue their treatment at CHC MontLégia, during an interim judgment. He therefore decided to maintain the role of prescriber of the doctors of CHC MontLégia. It's a relief, but it's a temporary decision; we know that. This is not a decision on the merits. If it maintains the quality of health care and the service provided, there is no indication that this will still be the case tomorrow. Minister, we have already discussed this issue. I would remind you that a quarter of the patients reside in Wallonia, and that only one in seven is present in Wallonia, even if you indicated that there were enough centres in Belgium and that mobility was possible. It is necessary to maintain the expertise and I therefore ask you the question: should INAMI take this into account now to modify its decision and to reconsider the possibility of accrediting two fibrosis reference centres in Liège, the CHR of the Citadelle and that of CHC MontLégia? I know they're both in Liège. We are proud to have high quality hospital services. As you said, they are accessible to all and that is the goal we must achieve tomorrow. I look forward to hearing your answers and I am confident that the families and patients concerned are also eager to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u24	Minister, indeed, the emolument is strong! Emotionally, it's a complicated situation. In a chronic condition such as cystic fibrosis, the links between patients and their families, on the one hand, and the teams of caregivers, on the other, are unique. These very strong links are gradually and in continuity. There is a real problem with being called upon to change these relationships.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u25	Mr President, the sound of the committee room via Zoom has gone away since you took the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u26	The decision of the Labour Court gives some respite to the persons concerned. It is happy because I believe that the situation needs to be analysed according to the particularity of this type of disease, which requires very close follow-up with a series of relationships that are gradually developing between doctors and their patients. Minister, what is your philosophy regarding reference centres? How to organize them? Is there a need for a direct link to hospital networks? What would this link be to your esteem? How many patients are taking care of these referral centres today for this type of pathology? How do you think you can solve this problem by respecting patients' freedom, so that they can have the practitioners and the care team of their choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u27	Dear colleagues connected to Zoom, like me, obviously, we have heard from the room. I'll ask my question. I propose that we all do it. Of course, the situation needs to be resolved so that we can hear the minister's answer. Minister, I imagine that the context was reminded by Mr Bacquelaine, whom I did not hear. I won't come back. Today we find ourselves in a situation where, in the face of the brutal decision of the INAMI, it is ultimately the justice that decided in favour of the patients. May I tell you the dismay of the patients? These patients with cystic fibrosis are chronic patients. They are particularly disadvantaged today in the face of everything that is happening. In substance, three issues are important in this case. First, is patient follow-up of high quality in this centre? The answer is yes. Secondly, does this centre benefit from the necessary expertise? The answer is yes. Third, is there a sufficient number of patients to maintain the high quality of patient care and follow-up, and to maintain caregivers with the necessary expertise? Again, the answer is yes: about 70 patients are followed at MontLégia while the required activity threshold is 50 patients. Minister, given the well-founded facts I have just mentioned, the diagnosis, follow-up and care of the patients concerned must be able to continue. Now, and even more so in the face of the court decision, the decision of INAMI needs to be reviewed. It's your responsibility. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you to take stock of the treatments for cystic fibrosis. As you know, the patients, but also the doctors who follow them, are waiting for the recognition in Belgium of certain medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u28	Mr President, I did not hear Mr Bacquelaine's question either. A few months ago, patients with cystic fibrosis and their parents were demonstrating in front of their hospital in Liège. One of the slogans was: "Life took my breath. Don't take my doctors!" When you have a rare disease such as cystic fibrosis, there is a special connection between the patient (and his/her family) and the caregiver. This is the case, I think, for all patients with cystic fibrosis, a disease often diagnosed at birth or shortly thereafter. Today, they are victims of administrative harassment because there is no or more recognition of MontLégia as a centre for the treatment of cystic fibrosis because of the disagreement or the disagreement between two hospitals in Liège. The patient must not be the victim. Having to separate from his doctor when he is competent and there is nothing to say about the quality of care provided, seems to me very inhuman. They were right to file a complaint. In fact, the Labour Court gave them a reason. This involves more than 70 patients who are treated there. Minister, do you intend to go back to the INAMI's decision? Will these patients be able to continue their treatment in the hospital of their choice? Like Mrs Fonck, I wonder if we should not update the Kaftrio dossier, a medicine that is still not reimbursed in Belgium? Recently, you made the decision to pay back certain medicines. How many patients have been able to benefit from these new treatments since then?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u29	Colleagues, as you have all asked questions about the judicial procedure that CHC MontLégia Hospital in Liège, as well as some of its patients with cystic fibrosis, introduced against INAMI, I suggest that you answer them simultaneously. During the period 1999-2001, INAMI had concluded agreements with seven reference centres for patients with cystic fibrosis as follows: three in Flanders, three in Brussels and one in Wallonia. On the basis of the expenditure recorded by health care insurance for 2019, we can deduct that these centres followed a total of 1,120 beneficiaries of the insurance. I'll give you the numbers by institution: - UZ Brussel, 58 patients; - Saint-Luc University Clinics (UCL) in Brussels, 141 patients; - Erasmus Hospital - including QFCUH (Queen Fabiola Children's University Hospital) in Brussels, 166 patients; - UZ Gent, 203 patients; - UZA and GZA Sint-Vincentius Antwerpen, 110 patients; - UZ Leuven, 335 patienten; - CHR of the Citadel and CHR MontLégia (previously the Clinic of Hope), 107 patients. A total of 1120 patients. As can be seen from these data among the seven agreements concluded with seven hospitals, three agreements have been applied in two different hospitals, including the agreement concluded with the CHR of the Citadelle in Liège since 2002 in collaboration with the CHC. However, in 2019, the CHC applied to the College of Medical Directors to be able to conclude its own convention as a reference centre for cystic fibrosis. This request was refused by the College of Medical Directors in October 2019. I will come back later on the reason for this refusal. Therefore, INAMI has never concluded the fibrosis reference centre agreement with a CHC hospital. INAMI therefore cannot really extend the recognition of CHC as a reference centre, to answer a question from Ms Fonck. In January 2020, the CHR of the Citadelle decided to terminate this collaboration with the CHC on the grounds of a breach of trust. In April 2020, following mediation by INAMI and the College of Medical Directors, CHR de la Citadelle and CHC agreed to continue their collaboration, pending the establishment of a single centre integrated on the CHR site of the Citadelle, but well organized in collaboration between the two hospitals. Effective implementation was initially scheduled for 1 January 2021 but was postponed until 1 April 2021. The CHR of the Citadelle has also agreed to temporarily add two CHC physicians to the list of prescribers of the fibrosis reference centres and it is written by INAMI on the basis of the data provided by the seven reference centres. In February 2021, the College of Medical Directors was able only to see the difficulties of the two hospitals in working together and the fact that the single and integrated centre on the CHR site alone of the Citadelle could not start on April 1, 2021. In this context, the College could only confirm that as of April 1, 2021, the two CHC physicians could not be kept on the list of prescribers, since the CHR of the Citadelle had accepted in 2020 the addition of these two doctors pending the establishment of the single centre and integrated on the CHR site of the Citadelle. Since the registration of CHC physicians in 2020 on the list of prescribers of CF reference centres has always been temporary, the INAMI circulars to insurers have always referred to the end date of the listing of these physicians, March 31, 2021, as the end date for the two CHE physicians. In February 2021, the College of Medical Directors only made the decision not to extend the period of this listing of two EH physicians. This was the only decision taken by the College of Medical Directors and INAMI in the early months of 2021. This decision is therefore unrelated to the establishment of hospital networks. Moreover, it cannot be said that the collaboration between CHR de la Citadelle and CHC MontLégia was terminated by INAMI. This collaboration ended as a result of the poor relationship between the two hospitals. It is against the decision of the College of Medical Directors not to extend the inclusion of the two CHC doctors on the list of prescribers that the CHC MontLégia hospital in Liège as well as some patients with cystic fibrosis from this hospital have introduced a procedure of judicial review. On 26 March 2021, the President of the Labour Court of Liège decided, on a provisional basis, to suspend the effects of the circular to insurers No 2021/51 of 28 January 2021 on the adaptation of the list of doctors entitled to prescribe supplies for patients suffering from cystic fibrosis. The President of the Labour Court of Liège made this provisional decision in order to have time to examine whether or not interim measures are necessary. In order to implement this decision of the Labour Court, INAMI has issued a new circular to insurers. This is Circular No. 2021/108 of 1 April 2021. On the basis of this new circular, the two doctors of CHC MontLégia are therefore temporarily still mentioned on the list of doctors prescribers of supplies, until the judgment to be delivered by the Labour Court of Liège on the provisional measures. The new circular also provides that these conditions should be temporarily considered to be met - for pharmaceutical products that can only be prescribed for patients who are monitored in a referral centre and/or who cannot be prescribed by a specialist doctor or a referral centre - where these pharmaceutical products are prescribed by the two doctors of CHC MontLégia. INAMI informed not only the insurers but also the two hospitals concerned. To answer the question as to when the decision on the merits should take place, I can tell you that the interim measures will come to the hearing on Wednesday, June 9. From that date, the judge will have a period of one month after the hearing to render his judgment on these interim measures. As far as the decision on the merits is concerned, this date has not yet been fixed by the court. To answer the question whether INAMI could reconsider the possibility of accrediting two fibrosis reference centres in Liège at CHR de la Citadelle and CHC MontLégia, I can tell you that the College of Medical Directors refused in October 2019 the candidacy of CHC MontLégia for several reasons that are still relevant. In particular, the College of Medical Directors is of the opinion that it is not appropriate to conclude an additional agreement in the region of Liège, since there is already a centre of reference. In addition, the conclusion of an additional agreement with a reference centre for the management of patients with cystic fibrosis would run counter to the different principles set out in the "Rare Diseases Plan" launched in December 2013 regarding the need to concentrate expertise. The conclusion of the convention with the CHC in Liège would also mean that such an agreement would then be concluded with a hospital which has neither a function of "rare diseases" nor a human genetics centre, whereas in the current context hospitals with a function of "rare diseases" have a primary role. Mrs Merckx, you are also asking about the current state of play with regard to the reimbursement dossier of the medicinal product Kaftrio of the pharmaceutical company Vertex. Indeed, on 19 March 2021, a dossier was submitted by the company to the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting (CTG) after long requests from many interested parties. Since the CTG procedure is ongoing, it is unfortunately not possible to provide you with more detailed information. This could jeopardise the smooth functioning of the reimbursement procedure. The course of the CTG procedure initiated for Kaftrio, whether negotiated on the basis of Article 111 et seq. of the Royal Decree of 1 February 2018, depends, inter alia, on the evaluation by the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting. Various aspects will be taken into account, such as therapeutic value, importance in medical practice, price and budget impact. The procedure also depends on the company's willingness to offer a price that is socially acceptable and proportionate to the therapeutic value of the medicinal product. You are also asking about the timelines, but I cannot give you any further specific information on this either. Day 180 of the procedure is foreseen around the end of September 2021, but this is calculated without possible suspensions that the company can apply for at different times in the procedure. I can assure you that the RIZIV administration will continue its activities to the maximum and that I will make a decision in these files at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u30	Minister, you talked about framework, rules, savings, principles, costs. All you have said is correct – and we have already talked about it before – but I would have liked to talk to you about benevolence, respect, listening. There is certainly the cost of health care, but I am thinking of the cost to the health of these dozens of patients, often very young, the cost to their morale, the cost for the motivation of the healthcare staff, who have been at the heart of this project for a long time and who will no longer be able to pursue it, and the cost for expertise, with the principle of specialization. I also wanted to talk to you about the cost and consequences for the parents and families concerned, who today have two terrible options: either to break the relationship of trust they have long had with the medical team, or to assume the exorbitant financial costs tomorrow, which they will not all be able to do. I would like us, as elected representatives, to be able more often to seek solutions based on the interest of these people, who are too many to suffer. I will not fail to return to you because your answer remains a little across my throat, even though I am aware that it is not your fault.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u31	Minister, I want to go back to the specificity of this type of chronic disease, which requires a very close relationship between the health care team and the patient. As long as the team has the expertise, the free choice and continuity of the therapeutic relationship with a healthcare team must be a priority. Therefore, a therapeutic relationship of this magnitude and specificity cannot be broken abruptly and brutally, simply by administrative rules. I understand the principle of the centre of reference, which is something important, but it is necessary to distinguish the centre of reference as an administrative and medical entity, and the free choice of the patient and the health care team. I think both are not incompatible. All coordination, expertise and sharing of expertise at a centre of reference can be organized very well, while giving the patients concerned the opportunity to make use of the practitioners and caregivers of their choice, provided that the staff have the expertise. In my view, we must go in this direction if we are to safeguard the possibility, for those patients with extremely difficult chronic conditions, of maintaining confidence in the care system, and if we want them to receive the best care. I believe that there are good reasons to go a little against a strictly regulatory aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u32	Minister, I was expecting a response from a Minister of Public Health, and I really felt like I was simply receiving a purely administrative response. Let me tell you how much I perceive it as a form of slap both for patients and their families, but also for caregivers whose expertise is particularly recognized. I do not understand why it is useful to have defined criteria, activity thresholds in terms of number of patients, if, when these criteria are met, the centre cannot be recognised, diagnoses, care and care cannot be recognised, patients cannot be cared for and the benefits they receive cannot be reimbursed. I confess that this is incomprehensible, including in terms of regulation. I expected a much more proactive attitude from you, showing a listening to the field and a recognition of the quality of care provided. If necessary, a strong desire should be expressed to bring together the actors at the table to find a positive solution, favouring the continuation of the care of these chronic patients. In short, it is a huge disappointment, first and foremost for patients and their families, as well as for caregivers. I hope you'll think about it again and reopen the case. On the other hand, with regard to Kaftrio, so much better if the file is introduced, but I hope that positive and satisfactory answers can be given to the patients. Thanks for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u33	Minister, I must join the reactions of my colleagues. By listening to your answer, I did not understand the nature of the problem at all. It's about a breach of trust. Apparently, two pneumonologists would no longer be recognized, but we still don't know why. Ultimately, patients are deprived of doctors they believe to be reliable. Otherwise, they would not have demonstrated and initiated proceedings before the courts to seek quality care. That's why your cold answer leaves me pantoise. How is it possible not to lead to a concerted solution between the parties? Patients' needs should be placed at the centre of their concerns. That they have to bring trials to hope for treatment is frankly sad. I understand from your answer that their outcome is to hope that the court will give them reason and allow them to continue their treatment. In any case, I did not feel a Minister of Health alongside these patients, ultimately victims of disputes between doctors and hospitals. We therefore know no more than at the beginning of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt is stuck in another committee, so I apologize to her. I should like to refer to the questions that have been tabled. 55016740C, 55016784C, 55017166C, 55017418C, 55017697C and 55017698C. Several of these questions deal with open data, open communication and transparency. I have been asking for more data at hospital level for a long time and you know that I have come back to this on several occasions. Those dates will not be released, either by you or by Sciensano. Then there is protection with privacy issues. It's anonymized data. So that can't be a reason. Also, the assumption that the population would not interpret the data correctly does not seem to me to be a valid reason, and even offensive. For example, the length of time in the various hospitals and the number of days on intensive care are crucial data which we apparently should not know in detail. At the same time, these data are used as a parameter to determine the severity of the situation and are used to determine hospital fees. Recently a slide was published in the media from a presentation by the FPS that talks about possible financial optimisation by communicating the figures in a creative way. On the same slide, I started asking questions a long time ago. We cannot afford to have doubts or ambiguity about hospital figures here. These data must be reliable and transparent if you want to maintain public confidence. That seems essential in a crisis like this. What will you do to check that the data passed on by the hospitals are correct? What is the consequence if the data provided by the hospitals are not correct? Will you join me in calling for this information to be made public? I had also put forward a number of important questions about the over-financing of the eight federal labs, about natural immunity, the relationship between covid and ethnicity and the capacity utilisation of intensive care in this third wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u35	Minister, for the N-VA Group, I am mainly in charge of the care staff. That is what my questions are about. I would like to return to my earlier questions on the compensation premium for protective equipment. That's what the home nurses are waiting for. However, this waiting period also applies to other healthcare providers, such as dentists and pharmacists. The premium was promised before March, but that has not yet been settled. During the last plenary session we asked you for a response, but you did not give it. So, what's the deal with that? Does your Secretary of State for the Budget find the 2.5 euro too much for home care? Is she questioning whether compensation for the care staff is necessary? Why didn't you provide a clear justification? After all, you had to send additional information. What exactly is the situation here? What arrangement do you intend to make up for the delay? My second question concerns respect for nursing staff. The federal government is imposing a lot of measures, but they do not appear to be properly observed everywhere. I have, for example, received images from the market in Brussels, where a lot of measures have been taken. Do you have any knowledge of such matters? Will you bring it to the attention of your competent colleagues? After all, it shows very little respect for the care staff, who are already sitting on his gums. What will you do about this? Finally, I have a question about asylum and migration. The competent Secretary of State said that he simply released illegals who refused to take a test before they were deported, so without a test. I cannot accept that it would not be safe for the country concerned to travel there without a test, but that it would be safe enough for those people to enter this country without a test. I would have liked to have heard your position on this as Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u36	Mr Minister, I refer to my questions Nos 55016793C, 55016801C, 55016809C, 55016810C, 55017353C, 55017437C, 55017438C, 55017439C, 55017440C, 55017441C, 55017433C, 55017434C, 55017515C, 55017518C, 55017542C, 55017669C and 55017715C. Minister, I have asked you a number of questions about vaccination readiness in Brussels and Wallonia, but I would like to zoom in on Brussels a little more. In the meantime, it seems possible to shop vaccinations in Brussels: Flemish and Walloon citizens have been vaccinated in Brussels. What do you think of that? How will you deal with that before the second shot? Those people have now received one shot, but how will you ensure that a second shot is given? Will you then refer them to the region to which they ultimately belong? A second point I would like to raise on Brussels is the shopping of the type of vaccine. In Flanders, we stick very clearly to the agreement made at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, namely that the government decides which vaccine will be given to a particular patient. Those who are a little smart can check in Brussels when they register for the vaccine they want. What will you do about it? Is every citizen equal to you? Will you take steps in this respect? As far as the price per vaccinee is concerned, you probably already knew, because the issue was discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, but the price per vaccinee is much lower in Flanders than in Wallonia or Brussels. You have agreed with the ministers that the federal government will pay 80% of the cost of the vaccination campaign. From the Treasury inspection report we learn that vaccination in Flanders in a collection such as a residential care centre cost EUR 9.66, while in Wallonia it cost EUR 22. How will you deal with that? How will you arrange the pay-out basis per region to not create a transfer and an A and B team on your team of 11 million citizens? The same is true for vaccinations in the vaccination centres, where the difference is even higher. The cost per vaccinee is about 50 euros in Flanders and about 70 euros in Wallonia. How will you finally settle the agreement of the 80/20 distribution with the various ministers? Finally, with regard to vaccination prices, the cost of communication, administration and registration is no less than eight times higher in Brussels than in Flanders. How will you deal with that? The call centres are paid for in Flanders by the local authorities. Will you speak to Brussels about this? Will you strike a chord? Mr Minister, I would like to ask you again whether the De Croo team is creating a team of 11 million Belgians with an A core and a B core. Will you opt for transfers, where the Fleming will pay the bill of the Walloon vaccinations? I would also like to know what you will do with the remaining vaccines. You have announced that too many vaccines have been purchased. So there's gonna be some left over. Will you allocate them to the COVAX programme so that third world countries can make use of it? Who's gonna pay for that anyway? Who is responsible for the COVAX programme? In a collectivity, I have heard that 10 euros are charged per negative test. I don't suppose it's supposed to be the residents who do negative tests and those who do positive tests don't have to pay. I'd like confirmation from you on that. Finally, on 10 February 2021, Mr De Croo and yourself announced that 1,500 additional psychologists would be deployed and that a budget of EUR 30 million would be allocated for the benefit of our students and mental health care. How are you doing with that today? How many funds have been committed? How much money have been spent?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u37	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I shall begin with the debate. Mr Minister, a recent study by the VUB and the Belgian Statistics Office on the mortality rate due to COVID-19 has been published. I'm sure you've seen the investigation, too. There's also a report in the media. The study showed that death due to the coronavirus varies widely from population to population. More specifically, people with a migration background in Belgium were hit harder during the first wave, expressing differences in over-death rates per population. The differences are also more pronounced in men than in women. We also see this phenomenon abroad. The researchers refer to different possible explanations. In the first instance, the socio-economic situation of people with a migration background explains the excess mortality rate. They are more often engaged in essential professions which do not allow teleworking. Differences in underlying conditions, such as high blood pressure or diabetes, may also play a role. Other explanations given are unequal living and living conditions. Finally, reference is also made to a possible language barrier, which would not have reached everyone's prevention campaigns and communication on the corona measures to the same extent. From previous studies on health and equal opportunities, we know that there is a large difference in life expectancy between high-income and low-income people. If we look at healthy years of life, the difference between high and low incomes is even greater. The famous health gap is certainly known to you. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How do you look at the results of the VUB study yourself? What do you think are the explanations for this difference in over-death rates between population groups? These were records of the first corona wave. In the meantime, are there any data available on the excess mortality during the second corona wave? If yes, are these results in line? What do you think is needed to better identify this difference in mortality rate and to get a better view of the explanations for this? For example, are you in favour of collecting data based on ethnicity? Why is that, or why not? There are various arguments for this. What policy conclusions do you draw from the results of this study? A final and slightly broader question: what will you do to reduce the health gap in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u38	Minister, my question is about people with HIV and vaccination. It has been several weeks since associations denounced the criteria used to consider an HIV-positive patient as a priority or not as part of the vaccination campaign. While HIV as such is considered a co-morbidity factor, an additional condition has been established to take into account only a portion of patients living with this disease in the current phase of priority vaccination. Since my question was tabled several weeks ago, your answer will probably have a certain time lag; nevertheless the subject remains interesting. Only HIV-positive people with less than 350 CD4 T lymphocytes per microlitre are considered in the current phase of vaccination. Many people with HIV do not know their CD4 rate. This decision, which would have been taken without consultation with the actors on the ground and the persons concerned, gives rise to a legitimate lack of understanding and concern. In addition, the procedure which requires first to go through its attending physician in order to assert this priority condition is not known to this public. Some people, thinking that they are legitimately part of the priority public for vaccination therefore await a summons that they will not receive, however, as the conditions have been changed. People living with HIV are about 20,000 in our country. At the current rate of the vaccination campaign (80,000 injections per day and more today), they account for only a quarter of the injections planned in a single day. In view of the criticisms made, do you intend to remove this additional condition? In view of the communication problems that have plunged the public into great distress and the acceleration of the vaccination campaign, do you intend to allow the vaccination of all HIV-positive people today? How to fix what is actually a communication error?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u39	Minister, I will refer to the text of my questions No 55017749C on pharmacists' access to patient vaccination data and No 55017754C on the reliability of data relating to the occupancy of covid-19 beds. I had also introduced a question about the emotional distress of nurses, aggravated in times of health crisis, but I see that it was postponed to Friday's debate. I saw it as a link to the news debate covid, especially since your office met with the nurses yesterday. I would therefore like clarification on psychological accompaniment, and I hope that we can hold this debate on Friday and that it will not be postponed to the Greek calendia. I think it is really urgent, considering the situation, that we can have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u40	Mr. Chair, Minister, as vaccination is accelerating, there is a growing issue of widening the target. This campaign would include children under 18 years of age. However, the WHO boss calls for the non-vaccination of children in order to give these doses to the Covax initiative and to the disadvantaged countries. Minister, are you considering immunizing under-18s to achieve better group immunity? What do you think of the WHO Director's request? When will a decision be made in this context? When should we get the green light from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the Pfizer vaccine, targeting 12 to 15 years? My second question concerns the ability of vaccines to curb the transmission of covid. An English study has indeed shown that people infected with the virus three weeks after receiving a first dose of vaccine have between 38 and 49% less risk of transmitting the virus within their homes. Minister, what do you think of this study? To date, what information is available on the ability of vaccines to curb the transmission of the virus? Does a vaccinated person remain contagious if they have been in contact with this virus? The argument of entourage protection is reinforced through this study. Do you intend to communicate on this issue to further strengthen immunization membership? This is the third theme. At the end of March, the federal government announced that it would make available a million free quick antigenic tests for businesses where telework was not possible for a month. The idea was to deploy these tests in a repetitive and systematic manner. However, out of the million tests made available by the federal government, only 375,000 were found to be takers. Minister, how many companies have used these quick and free antigenic tests to date? What do you think is why these tests are not successful? According to Co-Prev, the dome of the external prevention and protection services at work in Belgium, these rapid antigenic tests are useful mainly in the case of clusters but not in a general way. I would have liked to hear from you about this and how to convince companies to use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u41	Mr President, I have two questions. The first concerns PCR tests and their free use in the context of the European passport and the desire to allow free movement, especially during summer holidays. Initially, the idea was about a passport highlighting the fact of being vaccinated. And then the idea was broadened to avoid discrimination. Vaccination has taken a big throttle all over Belgium – and I see it singularly today in Wallonia. However, not everyone has access to the vaccine. To allow everyone to travel, it is proposed to present a negative PCR test, which, unfortunately, would not be free. Test Purchases stressed the importance of free of charge this PCR test. Not everyone has access to the vaccine, but not everyone can afford the PCR test either. Test Achats mentioned this, the European Parliament referred to it, and we also refer to it with our group. Let us be careful not to create new discrimination which would be harmful and difficult to bear for our fellow citizens. Minister, what is your attitude, what is your vision of this free or no PCR test? The second question is about money, and important money. The Royal Decree of 30 September 2020 lays down a temporary financial intervention of compulsory health care insurance in the costs of specific protective measures and equipment for all providers. Three periods will be reimbursed. The first took place from early May to the end of August, and its payment was executed without problems. The second phase began in early September and ended at the end of November. There, patatras, the premiums that were to be paid at the end of March were not paid, following a negative opinion from the Finance Inspectorate. We are now in May, and these premiums to pay for the virus protection equipment and equipment are still not paid. Minister, what obstacles do they deprive caregivers of this rebate? Have they received any concrete information? When will they receive the payment for the second period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question the Prime Minister last Thursday about taking over the cost of PCR tests as part of the coronapass or rather the covid safety ticket, to please some party presidents. I would like to address this issue again, since this should allow citizens to participate in major events safely by attesting to being vaccinated or having a negative PCR test. Some argue today that such a test should also be required, for example, to attend a marriage or to allow Scouts to participate in camps. Minister, do you think there is a need to expand the use of the PCR test for activities other than major events? It is essential for us to guarantee the non-discrimination of those who have not yet been able to benefit from vaccination, which is free of charge, knowing that it is mainly young people who will be affected. You have already spoken out against the reimbursement of PCR tests as part of participation in festivals. But you need to know that for many young people, participating in a festival or camp is sometimes saving for weeks or months. Paying for an extra test is sometimes very difficult. How will you ensure that everyone has equal access to these activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u43	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to put a question to the President-in-Office of the Council. 55017716C, 55017718C and 55017758C I refer to my written precipitation. These include, respectively, the Coronalert app, the black fungal infections in the aftermath of a covid infection and the British study on the time limit after which the second injection with the Pfizer vaccine is administered. Minister, I would like to clarify one specific question. I'm setting them up following an article in Latest News on May 14th. I'm probably not telling you anything new, but the hospitals are getting extra resources from the federal government to provide an answer to the influx of corona patients. These resources consist, on the one hand, of a fixed part, but, on the other hand, most of these additional resources depend on the number of beds filled by corona patients. I don't have to explain that to you as Minister of Health. However, the problem is as follows. The suspicion is that a number of hospitals artificially maintain the number of beds filled with corona patients for financial reasons. That suspicion was also expressed by the HTSC, by Mr Pedro Facon, who was not unknown to you and was still Director General of the Public Health Office, and the President of the HTSC. In a presentation on 26 June, he stated that "the policy of a number of hospitals may be motivated by financial optimisation." Mr President, to what extent do you have any indication that certain hospitals are actually doing financial optimisation, whether administrative or not, when registering the number of beds filled with covid patients? How big do you think the scale of this problem is? Is this form of financial optimisation being actively investigated or will this be done in the future? If so, how will that happen? Unless the funds are returned, no real sanctions have yet been provided for for hospitals engaged in such financial optimisation. Are you planning the introduction of a sanctioning system in one way or another? If so, at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u44	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to refer to the written record of Question No 1, by Mr De Clercq, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55016674C on new insights into the treatment of COOVID-19. I think I have already asked this question for the third time. The same applies to the following question. 55016675C on the mobile vaccination teams, Question No 55016815C on the Indian variant and the Indian students involved, question No. 55017755C on the hopping of vaccines in Brussels, Question No 55017347C on brain mist, question No. 55017352C on the KB of your colleague who wants to ban plastic mouth screens and Question No 55017382C on the vaccination passport. I would also like to ask you two more questions about something that ended up in my mailbox this morning. Hopefully, I'll get plenty of time for that. A first question concerns the cost of the vaccination campaign. At the end of 2020 there was an agreement on an 80/20 distribution key for the costs of the vaccination campaign. 80% were paid federally, 20% would be paid by the Länder. It now appears that there are considerable differences between the Länder. A calculation of the Flemish Government's Finance Inspectorate shows that placing a vaccine in a vaccination centre in Flanders costs 52.53 euros, while in Wallonia it amounts to 71 euros per vaccinee. The situation is worse in the bathrooms. In Flanders a vaccination costs 10 euros, in Wallonia over 22 euros. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of these differences? What is the reason for these great differences? Who will pay the extra cost of the Walloon vaccination? My second question concerns the unnecessary federal stock. The Treasury Inspectorate reports in a document that there would be a huge stock of surplus vaccines. For example, 33.6 million vaccines ordered, for a total amount of almost 283 million euros. Depending on how many people will eventually be vaccinated, the figure is EUR 137 to 181 million, which the Treasury inspection calls an "unneeded federal stock." Do those numbers make sense? What will happen to this unnecessary federal stock? How will you try to recover at least part of the invoice paid? Who pays the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u45	Mr President, in order to save time, I am referring to the text of my question, as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u46	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in hospitals and the testing. To do so, I refer to the submission of the written text for all my questions. Since our last topical debate, the situation has improved significantly with regard to our intensive care capabilities with a decline in covid patients. We know the theoretical phasing that you periodically announce, but it is clear that, since October in particular, these objectives of the contingency plan have not been achieved. Minister, when I ask you for clarification, you don't really answer and your office says you don't have the exact numbers. This is particularly challenging in the light of the KCE's assessment, which has called for operational decisions since December 2020. What about the centralization of the monitoring of national bed data, equipment and personnel, as well as the real-time occupancy of intensive care capacities, the occupancy of beds by categories of care, and the unavailability of staff? Nor had I received any information about the accelerated training that was given or not for the supervision in the USI. You keep reminding the press of the level of 500 beds in the USI to make new decisions. In this connection, I would remind you of my request to regularly provide Parliament, our committee, with a precise monitoring of these data in the various categories of care. As far as testing is concerned, for months he has missed an ambitious and far-reaching testing strategy. Despite the months that have passed and the restrictions taken, our testing capabilities remain underused. Worse still, there appeared to be a new "coach" with the impossibility of self-test deliveries for schools following an oversight in the texts accompanying their provision. Specifically, Sciensano indicates that, from 7 to 13 May 2021, an average of 46,500 tests were conducted daily. If this corresponds to an increase of less than 10% compared to the beginning of the month, this remains very little. Minister, what is the evolution of the use of self-tests? What new measures are planned now to promote repeated and easy-to-access PCR testing for sector reopening and post-summer management? Given these available capabilities, do you not think it would be appropriate not to charge the mandatory PCR tests for the next three months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u47	[[...]] The numbers of deaths by occupation are a useful piece of information in relation to all the measures taken in the context of this pandemic, particularly for doctors and caregivers who have been dedicated during this pandemic and who have been victims of the co-vid. There have been a number of deaths among caregivers and I think it would be logical and legitimate for us to know the number of deaths among hospital staff and general medicine. This question deserves to be asked in Sciensano and instructions should be given to this effect. Minister, what do you think? How could more accurate information be received in relation to morbidity and deaths in front-line occupations during the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u48	Mr President, I refer to my question No. 55017429C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u49	Mr President, there has been a small problem. My question No. 55017731C about the saliva tests is actually a written question. I don't know if I can retable it as a written question. Minister, I would like to apologize for reading your answers after the sitting. After all, I must leave early for a solidarity action for the Palestinian people in my city, in which I will participate. I refer to my question No. 55017787C on clusters in companies. The number of clusters in companies is still very high and the number of rapid tests ordered by companies is still very low. We have heard today that, for example, a cluster has even been established among the contact trackers in Saint-Truiden. What about the approach to clusters in companies? According to Sciensano's last week's report, 47 percent of clusters were in companies. This is about 1,300 companies where clusters are present. For example, yesterday I had to give a diagnosis of covid to one of our local garbage collectors, who was infected in a garbage truck. I also know about people from other companies who are on intensive care. The virus is widespread in companies and therefore workers must be protected at work. We expect more action from you in this regard. My next question is question No. 55017788C on deliveries of Johnson & Johnson. There were 1.4 million vaccines ordered from Johnson & Johnson, but only about 100,000 vaccines have been delivered, if my information is correct, hence the question of the location of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Yesterday, for the first time, I was able to do home vaccination myself with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. For certain sections of the population and for the general practitioners it is therefore a very useful vaccine. Since we are having a topical debate, I would also like to respond to the statement made by Prime Minister Jambon, who says that a maximum of ten people can have a garden party in the summer. If you want to invite 50 people, you have to call on a caterer. I fell off my chair when I heard that and I think a lot of people are obviously angry again about that measure. How do you come up with it? How can you think people can just pay a caterer for organizing their garden party? It's a very antisocial measure. I would have liked to have heard your reaction. Is the obligation to take a caterer to organise a garden party this summer effective a decision of the Consultation Committee? A class measure has been taken, because rich people can cozyly organise a garden party, but not the ordinary people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I have 14 questions in this topical debate and I would very much like to explain what they are talking about. This can be interesting for the other Members as well. My first question No. 55016738C is about the test events. I would like to hear what the conditions will be for these events and how they will be chosen. I have two questions about the speed tests. The first question, No. 55017212C, is about the medical contact professions. Will people with a medical contact profession also be entitled to free quick tests or reimbursed self-tests via pharmacists? They come into very close contact with the patients. The second question, No. 55017219C, is about the quick tests for companies that were free until 1 May. Can you give me an update? How do you see the sequel of this? Will that project continue in the coming months? Debates of the European Parliament 55017213C is about a project in which last month Baloise Insurance delivered 50 home monitoring sets for COVID-19 patients to UZ Antwerp. With these devices, patients can be monitored from home, allowing the pressure on the corona department to be controlled. What is your appreciation of that? Debates of the European Parliament 55017580C concerns the outbreak of COVID-19 at a residential care centre in Borsbeek. Do you have any indications that the Indian variant is circulating in our country, but I think we already know the answer to that question by now. I also have six questions about the vaccinations and the vaccination campaign itself. Debates of the European Parliament 55017763C is about the invitations and especially about the problems with Doclr, where, for example, 65-plussers have not received an invitation because of software problems. What's the status there? Debates of the European Parliament 55017764C is about home vaccinations. I understand that these will mainly happen with Johnson & Johnson, but I would like to hear whether other vaccines could be considered in the long term. What is the state of play with regard to home vaccinations? Debates of the European Parliament 55017765C is about the vaccination strategy in young people. What's the status there? Will young people under the age of 18 also be able to receive a vaccine? How far are we going with the testing of vaccines on young people? A number of companies are even considering applying for authorisation for vaccination of six-month children. My question No. 55017768C was also submitted by a number of colleagues and concerns the willingness to be vaccinated in Brussels and Wallonia. What action will be taken there? Debates of the European Parliament 55017770C concerns the retention periods of the Pfizer vaccine. Those vaccines would last longer in ordinary refrigerators. If this is the case effectively, what are the consequences for the vaccination strategy? With regard to vaccinations, I would also like to refer to my question No. 55017772C. I would have liked to know if there is any concrete planning for the booster vaccine. Mr President, I have slightly exceeded my speaking time and I would like to conclude by referring to the text of my questions. 55017766C, 55017769C and 55017767C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u51	Mr President, I have seen that my question has not been included in the list of questions. Perhaps my question was put a few minutes late. Minister, I think you have an opinion on my question anyway. Several colleagues have already raised this issue. It concerns the consideration of vaccination of 16- and 17-year-olds. The EEA has given the green light to this and the clinical trials also look promising. Professor De Maeseneer said that he is very comfortable and that this is practically also very easy to achieve, as the vaccination series simply adds three to four days to vaccinate the 16- and 17-year-olds. Minister, what is your opinion on the vaccination of 16- and 17-year-olds? In the tail of that recital, I read that for the sake of group immunity, vaccination of 12- to 15-year-olds is also targeted. For that group, the scientific data are still a lot less convincing or less complete. Minister, what is your opinion on the vaccination of 12- to 15-year-olds? How do you see that evolving? Is vaccination of that group actually being considered in this vaccination campaign? The vaccination of these groups requires the consent of their parents. This question belongs to the powers of the Länder, but I would like to ask you how this can be organized in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u52	Mr President, as far as the variants are concerned, I refer to the written text of my question No 55016792C and to question No 55017553C concerning the federal intervention on the costs of protective equipment for caregivers; I have already questioned the minister ten times on this subject! Minister, I would like to ask you in particular why doctors and pharmacists receive an additional fee for uncomfortable benefits on weekends and in the evenings, whereas it is not intended for nurses - a situation which they obviously find highly unfair. Could you give us the reasons? Above all, is it possible to remedy this? It's a question of fairness, it seems to me. Now, I would like to address the issue of vaccination, particularly in terms of the vaccine hesitantness against which a strategic fight must be fought. I once again plead that general practitioners - not subject to certain very complicated conditions, but very widely - should be able to vaccinate. It is a major issue of trust. You know that, on the Pfizer side, the conservation criteria are changed, since this vaccine can now be stored in the refrigerator for a month instead of in the freezer. Are we, therefore, going to make full progress with the general practitioners? Do you not consider that the time has come for extensive field work, so that the most vulnerable can be vaccinated, particularly in collaboration with associations? Finally, with regard to vaccine hesitation among caregivers, I am sometimes surprised at the way in which the figures are presented. Indeed, several caregivers have had covid, are not necessarily considered to be vaccinated, but should be. I am thinking in particular of those who are exercising in nursing homes. It would therefore be wise to take them into account in the calculations, thus opening up the possibility of more family visits, although these institutions do not yet allow this. I come to the other weapon we are receiving, waiting for a higher vaccination rate. This is, of course, the issue of testing, particularly to deal with the threat posed by certain variants. With regard to more risky activities, considered from a European point of view, I plead - with prominent care providers in our country - for a coronapass. To do so, a sine qua non is necessary: free testing for the public who have not yet had access to vaccination. In this case, it was not your choice. I heard you on RTL say that if we had enough money to go on vacation or to go to Tomorrowland, we could afford a PCR test. Let me tell you that low-income households have saved all year round to go on vacation. Assuming they are five or six in the same household, do you imagine that this represents a budget of around 250 to 300 euros? In this case, I would like to see some form of fairness established for those who have not yet had access to the vaccine. It seems incorrect to me not to foresee this free of charge. Finally, I have two questions for which I refer to the written text as tabled: Question No 55017774C on vaccination of cross-border workers, in particular with regard to the encodement part of the next European pass and Question No 55017776C on vaccination of Belgians abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u53	Mr. Chair, I refer to the text of my written question for the question on the federal Doclr platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u54	Mr President, I refer to my written questions as tabled. Minister, I would like to ask you about other topical issues. First of all, the ventilation plan. The press has revealed that a ministerial decree today aims to lay down rules for the placing on the market of air purification systems in public places (excluding medical use). This order is expected to come into force at the end of the month. It is a good thing to translate into binding standards what had been sunk by the opinion of the Higher Council of Health on the different techniques used, their effectiveness and their potential danger and to make it known to the sector quickly. Will companies, whether it is the Horeca or the fitness and entertainment halls, be able to obtain reimbursement for the purchase of these devices from the time they register their ventilation system with the SPF? What about the other companies that have bought in good faith devices that are ultimately not up to standards? To what extent can they request an exemption? Indeed, your Ministerial Order provides for one for manufacturers (their placing on the market) but not for users, i.e. for the use as such of devices that would have been purchased before the adoption of this Ministerial Order? With regard to the vaccination of nursing staff in nursing homes (MR), you have followed the news like us. Eleven cases of covid were observed in an MR (the Foyer Notre-Dame de la Paix in Audregnies), while 96% of residents were vaccinated there. This situation raises the issue of the compulsory vaccination of health-care workers who care for vulnerable persons. In this RM, only 66% of the staff were vaccinated. It is known that it is the federated entities that are competent for nursing homes and prevention. However, we are facing a health emergency that falls within federal jurisdiction and that can justify binding measures to safeguard the safety of both staff and clients and patients when there is a real risk inherent in this profession. This is the case in the case of a nursing home in front of the covid-19. So I wanted to know your position regarding a possible vaccination requirement for nursing staff in nursing homes. With regard to the remuneration of health workers in vaccination centres, a draft royal decree defines hourly funding for external providers, with different hourly rates for doctors and pharmacists, on the one hand, and for nurses, on the other. However, the nurses report – as my colleague Fonck mentioned earlier – that the abolition of the weekend premium and public holidays only concern nurses, and not other providers. Can you give us an explanation of this situation, which is an injustice? Will it be corrected? Finally, I will conclude with the issue of vaccination of young people. The press today reveals that one out of every four under 35 years of age categorically refuses to be vaccinated. However, we know very well that our vaccination coverage must cover all age groups, so that today some experts such as Mr Vincent Yzerbyt, professor of social psychology at UCL and member of the working group "Psychology and Corona" recommend not to put the youngest at last in the order of vaccination, considering that too long a wait may ultimately weigh on the motivation of the majority of young people who want to be vaccinated. My question is therefore very simple, Minister: what are you responding to these suggestions, and to what extent does the federal government support federated entities in their specific campaigns for young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u55	Mr President, I have received many questions and I will try to answer them within the time frame. First of all, I would like to correct a possible misunderstanding in response to questions about the difference in the cost of vaccination that would be observed in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. The misunderstanding could be that the federal government, in its share of funding for the vaccination campaign, would distinguish between what is contributed by the federal government to Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. Of course we won't. We will, of course, offer the same funding per vaccinee in the three regions in the federal government's financial contribution. At the moment, there is an inevitably complex discussion about what the correct cost calculation of the vaccination campaign is. There are a lot of different cost elements involved. We're looking at the right cost calculation. If the federal government carries 80% of the cost calculation and the regions or communities 20%, we must first know how much it is, in order to calculate what 80% actually means. Even if it were to be established that the actual cost elements at our disposal are different between the regions, the federal government will of course operate on the basis of a uniform flat rate. There's something else I can't imagine. That discussion has not yet been concluded. What exactly is the size of the total cost? What elements are charged? How do we calculate that? We haven't figured that out yet, and we probably won't be able to figure that out very soon. That's not an emergency either. The urgency now is to vaccinate people. I would like to get rid of that misunderstanding at the beginning of this sitting so that it does not begin to go around. I will answer questions that have been asked in order about the epidemic, the fight against the epidemic and the situation in hospitals. That is quite a lot, so I will have to speak for quite a long time. With regard to the epidemic and the measures, I will not repeat what was announced in general terms after the meeting of the last Consultative Committee. We have made some kind of cutlery for successive steps that we want to take from now until summer and after summer to return to normal life. We gave that the name Summer Plan. I think you know the general lines of it, and I am not going to repeat them here. The practical implementation of a number of points still needs to be further developed. I will not therefore go into certain very specific questions. In this respect, they have referred, among other things, to the discussion about parties in the garden. I will not go into this now because the specific implementation of a number of general decisions of the Consultation Committee has yet to be established. More generally, Belgium is in a situation where, on the one hand, a significant part of the population has already built up immunity. After all, we found that 18% of the blood donors in Belgium had antibodies against COVID-19 in December 2020. Since then, many people have also been vaccinated because at present 42% of adults have received at least a first dose of the vaccine. So there is a shrinking part of the population that is still suicidal and a rapidly growing group of people who have been vaccinated or immunized by the disease. These people live side by side and side by side. The risk in such a situation is that the selection pressure on the virus causes variants to develop and spread which may partly escape immunisation or vaccination, although we do not currently have any specific indication of this. However, that is a possible risk. Apart from that, it remains important at this intermediate stage to keep the virus circulation as low as possible and to reduce the risk of the development of variants. If we want to keep the virus circulation as low as possible, this means that we have to be careful when it comes to multiplying contacts between people. We need to look at how many people have been vaccinated, what is happening in hospitals and how sustainable the more or less strict rules imposed on people who need to be able to live a freer life. All these elements must be put side by side, which is a difficult balancing exercise, at each meeting of the Consultative Committee. There are two extremes that are not actually correct. One extreme is the idea that, when the vulnerable people are vaccinated, one can open society all the way back to live a completely normal and free life again, as we have done before and want to do again. That is probably a little too fast, and it is not proposed. The other extreme is to say that we must wait until everyone is fully vaccinated, including all young people, and that we must maintain all kinds of restrictions from the last few months as long as that is not the case. That's the other extreme. It is important to find the right middle ground between these two extremes. In addition, there are certain discussions that I would like to take up. As far as mouth masks are concerned, you will find the arguments for this and the scientific basis, with all kinds of references to literature, in the opinions of the Consensus Working Group. You can find all this on the website of Sciensano. Allow me to note that the aim of the mouth masks is to protect the wearer, but above all the environment, from infectious drops and microdrops that are released during both talking and breathing. That is why we always point out that mouth and nose should be covered and that the mask should be properly connected to the sides. Indeed, we found that some mouth screens do not meet those objectives, such as plastic mouth screens, which have no effectiveness, precisely because they do not contain enough microdrops and larger drops. This was not only discussed in Belgium. That is also an issue with the World Health Organisation. There's a lot of consensus that it should be about mouth masks covering the chin, mouth and nose and connecting them closely to the sides. That is precisely where the problem lies with certain types of plastic mouth screens, which do not meet these requirements. It is therefore also indicated that they are not really adequate in terms of protection. How long do people and what people have to wear a mouth mask? That's a complex question. I have asked the Coronac Commission and an extensive GEMS advice as to what the increasing vaccination rate of the population means for our individual and collective freedoms. Of course, there has also been a lot of public debate on the subject. I do not want to dwell on this until I have received the advice. It is certainly coming and I hope to have a rich debate on the basis of the opinion shortly. The question has been asked about the conditions for the reopening of the catering industry. She's kind of referring to the same issue. The conditions for the reopening of the catering industry on 8 May 2021 have been established by consensus in the Consultation Committee, which has not based itself on a single study, but on a combination of all kinds of scientific and practical elements. Again, there is the finding that SARS-CoV-2 is transmitted by large drops as well as by microdrops, the so-called aerosols. This is why, in a first stage of relaxation, preference is given to outdoor activities, where natural ventilation allows the microdrops to be cooled and diluted quickly. Of course, infections can also occur at a short distance, i.e. less than one and a half meters, due to larger drops. It is certainly relevant to think about the role that, for example, plexiglass or plexiscreens can play to stop large drops. There is no doubt that plexi screens between people can stop the spread of large drops. This presupposes that the plexiscreens are sufficiently large and high. We have established in practice that this is not always the case. On the other hand, care must be taken to ensure that the placement of plexi screens, wind screens or rain canopies does not create a more or less enclosed space in the facts, where the natural ventilation is no longer sufficient and therefore the problem of aerosols is dealt with. One argument why we would rather not want plexi screens at the reopening of the restaurant on 8 May was that we wanted to avoid too much concentration of people on the terraces. We wanted enough space between people and therefore not too many people caught together, so that the staff could also move in a sufficiently safe way. Those elements in our assessment can evolve. This was also indicated at the latest meeting of the Consultative Committee. These are actually the reasons why plexi screens were not taken into account outside the reopening of 8 May. That is also why we are sticking to that decision for the time being and why we are also not assuming that we can do what we hope to do on 9 June with regard to the reopening of the catering industry. There's no way we're gonna assume that. But those are evolutionary data, I'll just give you what the current situation is and what the arguments are. Questions have been raised about the enforcement of measures in the workplace, i.e. controls. Since 2 November 2020, 44,778 employers have been monitored for compliance with social legislation and for compliance with prevention measures in the fight against COOVID-19. In this case, 18,037 employers found one infringement or several infringements. In the case of additional checks at 35,973 employers, 9,644 employers were in breach. 23.327 employers were specifically checked for telework, with 2,823 employers in violation. With regard to the virus variants, I can say that the Indian variant was first detected in Belgium in the week from 13 to 20 April. That was in people with no travel history. Later it was also detected by Indian students who arrived from India. Those students had a specific subtype, namely the B.1.617.2. On 28 April, there were eight confirmed cases, plus 15 students with positive PCR in the cluster in Aalst and nine students with positive PCR in the cluster in Leuven. In the week from 20 to 27 April, four additional patients with the Indian variant were identified, with no knowledge of any travel history. These are three patients with subtype B.1.617.1, one with subtype B.1.617.2. The students in those two clusters had not been in contact with the Belgian population. They have been strictly quarantined from their arrival by bus in Aalst and Leuven. They have been well followed up and informed by the medical services of the training. So they haven't mixed up among the population. There was therefore no reason to further examine the positive tests from these geographical regions. Two of the three subtypes of the so-called Indian variant, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 have mutations similar to those of other variants that had increased transmission, disease-making ability or reduced susceptibility to antibody neutralization. For example, these subtypes show a mutation at the position 681 of the spike protein, similar to what is seen in the British variant, which may result in an increased transmission. Although caution is needed, this is not sufficient evidence that we see this in this variant. It is also uncertain whether and to what extent the current rapid increase in COVID-19 in India is due to this variant, as there are other factors in this country, such as the increase of other variants and the reduction of the necessary measures. In short, the Indian variant circulates, but with a low prevalence. We must therefore act very closely with regard to travellers from India, as we do with regard to travellers from South Africa and Brazil. The Brazilian variant has been present in Belgium for some time. It was quite rare, but the presence has increased to about 8 % of all covid infections. We know that this Brazilian variant is more contagious than previous variants, perhaps more contagious than the British variant, perhaps less sensitive to the immunity generated by previous variants. Whether that means that he is less sensitive to the current vaccines is not yet known. It is also unclear whether this gives a more serious picture of disease. In the molecular surveillance system, a sample of approximately 5 to 10 % of all positive PCR samples, on which the complete sequence analysis is performed, is taken to detect known and possible new variants. These samples are randomly selected within a number of level laboratories to ensure that they represent all positive samples in the country. In this way, the results of baseline surveillance should reflect the genetic diversity of viruses circulating in Belgium. The absolute number per province per week is determined on the basis of the number of inhabitants per province. The percentage number, i.e. the 5% to 10% I mentioned earlier, is determined on the basis of ECDC guidelines. A sequence analysis takes several days and is performed in batch. In addition, most samples for baseline screening come from other laboratories, where a primary PCR analysis is first performed, followed by a second transport to the sequence laboratory. In the event of a positive result, the sample shall be transmitted, if selected for baseline surveillance and twice weekly. After the wet lab analysis, there is another part of dry lab analysis, with the data being analysed and processed. This requires more time and expertise for a sequence analysis than for a PCR test. There is therefore an explainable lead time on the performance of baseline surveillance samples. Therefore, the figures for the most recent two weeks should always be interpreted with caution, as the number of samples analysed for those weeks is not yet complete. The enhanced molecular surveillance I was talking about has been happening in our country since January 2021. Then I get to the situation in the hospitals. It is clear that the patient population in hospitals is getting younger, because the elderly population has been vaccinated. There is also logic in the fact that with a younger patient population more patients are distributed proportionally to intensive care. I am not going to go back to things that have been said before, namely measures that we have taken to increase capacity in hospitals, for example by building a mid-care capacity. I'm referring to the corona-high-oxygen-carebeds. The question was why more patients end up in an ICU today. It's a younger population. Compared to the much older patients we used to deal with, they may be more easily admitted to an ICU. There are also studies that say that in any case there are more hospitalizations in relation to the number of infections, due to the British variant. We are only recently analysing recordings on intensive care in more detail, because in real time we need more information on exactly what is happening in hospitals and exactly what are the factors determining the transition from normal hospitalization to an ICU. This is relatively new. We are now asking for more information. It also takes a little time, of course, to ensure that those data are reported correctly and that we present them correctly. We are in the process of making more detailed data on patient characteristics available on ICUs. The duration of stay in ICUs and in hospitals in general is estimated every day based on the available information. That estimate is also taken into account in our prediction models. In general, I would like to say that the situation in hospitals is clearly improving at the moment. Let us say that I am already very optimistic about how we have dealt with the epidemic and the result we have achieved, thanks to the measures we have taken and the vaccination. Optimism does not mean that we should not remain cautious, but I think we are clearly seeing better figures. Questions have been asked about the differences in treatment. Patients aren't equal. Nor is it the case that any therapy for an apparently similar condition is equal for each patient. Hospitals and doctors aren't the same either. There is also therapeutic freedom. That is why I think we should be careful when assessing what we see. That is also why Sciensano, together with the experts of the Belgian Association of Intensive Medicine, thoroughly analyses what happens during this pandemic and feedback with decisions and recommendations. The situation in hospitals is also monitored in detail by the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC). Thanks to the superhuman performance of the staff but also to the advice of this HTSC Committee, our care system has been able to continue to operate for more than a year now. The Committee requested a report from the "Audit of Hospitals" team, which is a joint SPF team, INAMI, AFMPS, on the assessment of the risk of accumulation of deferred care. The status report after the second wave is being finalized and the third wave report is being requested. After the second wave, the conclusion was that it would take a 25% increase in hospital capacity for a year to clear the backlog, which is still very considerable. Our hospitals therefore take the first steps towards standardization but this does not mean that all deferred care can suddenly be returned. Additional efforts, both human and financial, will need to be made. As I explained to you, we are developing efforts to capture relevant information in real time from the various computer systems in hospitals. These efforts are followed by the police station and our administration. I assure you, the HTSC Committee is not sailing blindly. He centralizes the numbers of hospitals and tells me about them twice a day, seven days a week. Mrs. Gijbels and others asked questions about symptoms, immunity and ethnicity. If we examine the risk of death per ethnicity taking into account demographic factors, age, gender, comorbidities and reason for inclusion, then we see no statistically significant difference in mortality between different ethnicities. Because of the overlap between ethnicity and socio-economic and socio-odemographic factors, we need to be able to correct these factors in order to determine whether ethnicity or socio-economic factors play a role in worse outcomes in the disease. Socio-economic data are not collected within Sciensano, but by Statbel. Work has been carried out in recent months to link socio-economic data to clinical hospital surveillance based on the national registry number. An information security committee must assess whether this link is possible within the legal framework. In addition, cooperation with external groups should be initiated to identify which variables are relevant to linking, how the data will be processed, where they will be secured, etc. The analysis of causes of death in 2020 will certainly provide additional information, but, as mentioned earlier, we will only get that analysis with delay. By 2020, we will not get that analysis before 2022. A study by the VUB, among others, on excess mortality and ethnicity shows the importance of the problem and, in particular, the importance of health inequalities. In men aged 65 and over, the excess mortality affected the whole population and not just a population of a particular origin. Among the under 65s we see that various groups have been affected with a more pronounced increase among people from Sub-Saharan Africa. A possible slope, which is not mentioned in the study, but which I would nevertheless like to mention, is that migrants generally live more often in large cities with a higher risk of transfer, delay care and show more comorbidities, making people vulnerable. So we can actually say that COOVID-19 has brought back existing health inequalities. It is a very broad problem and we must develop a health-in-all-policies policy if we are to do this properly. We have already talked about this in the discussion of my policy letter. To get on that road, the FPS Public Health recently started testing a network of health inequalities ambassadors and a health impact assessment with an equity focus. After an evaluation, this methodology may be extended to other federal public services, but our coalition agreement already sets out an ambition. By 2030, we want to reduce the health gap between people with the highest and lowest expected healthy life years by at least 25. It is precisely for this reason that a health-in-all-policy is needed. You know that in my policy I also want to pay a great deal of attention to the mere accessibility of care. In addition, it remains important to keep the patient bill low enough. You also know that the Social Research Centre OSE, the Observatory Social Européen, has been working on a study on the financial accessibility of healthcare in Belgium and that this is further picked up in the RIZIV. There is also a working group in the RIZIV on accessibility. This will also be an important dimension in the multiannual budget which is currently being worked on, together with all the actors, the RIZIV and a number of scientists. This also brings us to other problems such as the health literacy of certain people or certain groups of people. I've also been asked a question about brain mist. This is a known syndrome associated with a number of neuropsychiatric but also other conditions, such as autism, coeliac disease, chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. Studies have shown that brain mist can also act as a long-term effect of a COVID-19 infection. That brain mist can be caused by the corona measures is less documented. Of course, there are studies that show that the cognitive functioning of people and their mental health can deteriorate during a lockdown. But that's different from brain mist. It is not defined as such either. That a lockdown is not conducive to our well-being, nor in secondary order for our mental health, I do not think there is any point. Sciensano has started to systematically monitor the social and mental health of the population. Sciensano implements and coordinates seroprevalence studies in the general population and various subpopulations, especially among health professionals, in hospitals, in residential care centres and in the first line. This is done on the basis of six different studies or samples. Protocols of this study, as well as results, are available through the website and the dashboard of Sciensano. The purpose of these studies is to investigate how many people have been in contact with the COVID-19 virus and thus to determine and monitor the spread of the virus in the general population and specific subpopulations. That follow-up happens by checking if anyone has antibodies to Sars-CoV-2, which suggests that the person has been in contact with the virus. At the end of 2020, early 2021, i.e. just before the start of the vaccination campaign, we found for those different studies that between 11%, namely for primary school children, the lowest percentage, and 19.7 %, namely for health professionals in hospitals, the highest percentre, of the participants in those studies or samples had antibodies against the COVID-19 virus. We know from national and several international studies that antibodies remain in most people for several months. Currently, in some research labs, the T cell response tests are optimized for COVID-19. We expect the first results at the beginning of June. Simplifiers have to take this into account, but our data are, of course, still scarce and tentative. Simplifiers must, of course, also take into account the degree of vaccination of the population. There are still some uncertainties, some of which I have already mentioned. For example, are the vaccines equally effective against all variants? We have no reason to doubt the efficacy of the vaccines and certainly no reason to panic, but we are not yet 100% sure. We also do not yet know with certainty how long immunity plays as a result of the infection. But in any case, everything indicates that our vaccines are extremely effective. The sharp decline in the number of hospitalizations we see today is undoubtedly the result of the vaccination. Now I come to the questions about testing and tracing. It goes without saying that testing is very essential. Questions have been asked about repatriation and testing. Rules on the obligation to take a test in the context of a repatriation procedure and on the consequences of non-inclusion of a test fall within the competence of the Secretary of State for Migration. The Minister of Justice is responsible for whether or not to allow a test to be taken at the time of the release of a prisoner. I won't say any more about that now. I'd like to come back to the federal platform. It consists of eight partners from a clinical lab and a university lab. These partners are provided with test materials and equipment by the government, which allows to analyze large volumes, up to 7,000 tests per site per day. The eight sites signed agreements with the RIZIV and the FPS Public Health in which the operating and financing modalities are laid down. You know that the funding consists of three parts: a one-off start-up fee based on proven costs; a flat-rate fee per month, which corresponds to the staff needed to carry out an average of 2,000 tests daily; and the costs per test carried out, from which the already reimbursed costs are deducted. The personnel costs are linked to the tests and are €12 per test. These arrangements and arrangements were made before and during the second wave, when there was clearly insufficient test capacity. In the meantime, clinical labs outside the federal platform have also been able to achieve a strong scaling-up of test capacity, from around 18,000 tests per day on 1 July 2020 to over 100,000 tests per day on 31 December 2020. During the period up to mid-April 2021, 15% to 20% of the tests were carried out within this platform. In absolute figures, it was 41,000 to 96,000 tests per week. I believe that the capacity created in this way within, but also outside, the federal platform is sufficient to cover our national needs during this pandemic. We will have to consider the mandate of the federal testing platform in the next stages of the pandemic. This will have to evolve and the financial mechanisms must also be reviewed. I come very briefly to the question of the cost of the tests. Various speakers referred to comments I have made, if I am not mistaken, to the RTBF. I spoke on the following question: should a test for a person who wants to go to Pukkelpop or Tomorrowland be free of charge? We were in the context of the debate on the health passport, testing, etc. I said spontaneously that someone who can afford a ticket to Pukkelpop or Tomorrowland may also get a test, if that person can't or won't get vaccinated. But I realize that it's a little short and that we don't have to generalize. The Bioethics Advisory Committee provided an opinion. He said very clearly that since testing becomes an element of the policy of relaxation and creates freedoms, it must be made accessible to everyone. I am sensitive to this argument. Of course, when we expand the debate beyond Pukkelpop or Tomorrowland, which is likely to be the case, we need to think about the accessibility of the tests. We must reflect on the price of tests, on the free or almost free of charge of the different types of tests during the period before us, during which tests will be an element of concrete policy at the level of the individual and of relaxations. I'm not going to go into this right now. There are ongoing discussions on this subject, and I look forward, after the advice of the Bioethics Advisory Committee, to the GEMS opinion on the freedoms associated with vaccination. I really don't know, but perhaps there will be elements to fuel this reflection on the price of testing. To be very clear about Mrs Fonck, Mr Prévot, Mr Rigot and others, I am open to debate on this. I'm not closed at all. It is important to stress that. I now turn to the questions relating to the self-tests. An autotest is an in vitro diagnostic medical device designed and authorized to be used alone by the patient. This patient performs the necessary sampling and analysis of the results as described in the instructions for use. In fact, to date, no scientific studies have been conducted by AFMPS to determine whether the use of these self-tests is relevant to disease prevention. Nevertheless, we thought it useful to create what I call this third line of defense, by making self-tests available. The market for medical devices, including in vitro diagnostic medical devices, is an open market. An EC-labelled scheme can move freely on the European market. This also applies to self-tests. The regional authorities have also announced that they want to use their own tests in schools, where relevant. That in itself is a regional competence. A royal decision was needed to make it clear that regional authorities could do so and that other actors should also be able to buy large volumes of self-testing. In the meantime, that royal decree has also been published. There is therefore no doubt about this; the regional authorities can also work with it. There were also questions about the number of rapid antigen tests with a deep nose wiper. I am not talking about the self-tests, which are actually antigen tests with a shallow nose wiper. The Belgian State has purchased 400,000 antigen tests with a deep nose wiper for a total amount of 3.078.488 euros. Each of the following brands has carried out 100,000 tests: Abbott, AMEDA, Biosynex, Siemens and Surescreen. The unit prices varied between 4 euros and 6,40 euros, excluding VAT. In addition, through the European Emergency Support Instrument (ESI) donations were made, namely 324,889 tests by Roche and 542,850 tests by Abbott. Those are the totals. About 400,000 rapid tests were distributed to companies. There are 500,000 more available. A framework was also developed with the occupational health services to ensure that the tests were used as effectively as possible. There was a question about caregivers, vaccination and testing. In our campaign, caregivers belong to one of the priority groups to be vaccinated. In vaccinated people, the risk of infection is lower. Preventive screening should be carried out for them if the risk, in the case of an unnoticed infection, is particularly high. So caregivers who wish to do so can use quick tests. To date, we have not provided for separate funding for this, because there is already a generic intervention for the financing of protection materials and materials. Test projects for saliva testing were also launched, but there is no general roll-out of saliva testing projects. The federal government also has a specifications for saliva testing, because it works as a kind of command centre. Other governments may use that contract, which is a framework contract, to buy material for saliva collection. Mr Creyelman, you had a question about the Coronalert app. The measurement of the success of that app is the adoption rate, in particular the number of people who installed the app. The data are publicly available. I think the app itself works well without violating anonymity. It can be assumed that, when we allow relaxation, which is now clearly happening, the number of contacts is increasing, which is also clearly happening, and the importance of the app as an instrument of contact detection increases. I think the last word has not been said. One may wish for the app to be deployed and activated on a larger scale, but I do not think we can say that the app itself is malfunctioning. Then I come to the questions about vaccination. With regard to the problem of side effects, I refer to everything that has been published by the European Medicines Agency. With the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we closely followed up all the information and analyses we received from the European Medicines Agency. That agency has published for AstraZeneca a differentiated balance based on age groups between the benefit of the AstraZeneca vaccine and the possible side effects that we might be concerned about. The advantage is, of course, all the greater as more virus circulates. If there were no pandemic, we would not be administering the AstraZeneca vaccine. The same applies to the Pfizer vaccine. You must therefore interpret the data published by the European Medicines Agency, on the one hand, from the question of how much virus is circulating. In its analyses, the European Medicines Agency distinguishes between a high, medium and low-circulation scenario. As a function of this, vaccination with AstraZeneca or other vaccines has more or less benefit. On the other hand, such a vaccine always has side effects, some of which may very rarely be serious. We have looked at and reviewed the data on the basis of the state of the epidemic in Belgium. On that basis, we decided that it was clearly advantageous for people over the age of 40 to use the vaccine of AstraZeneca or any other vaccine, while, at the current state of the epidemic, it is more balanced for people under the age of 40 to use a Pfizer vaccine or a Moderna vaccine. Based on the analyses we have so far, we are also using a Johnson & Johnson vaccine for the entire population. You also know that we have decided to reduce the interval period for AstraZeneca to eight weeks. This has no disadvantage in terms of the protection offered by the second injection. It does, however, allow the final phase of the vaccination campaign to be completed more quickly, which we are, of course, committed to. I will not go back to what has already been said in the past about the interval with the Pfizer vaccine. We have increased that interval from 21 days to 35 days on the basis of scientific advice and in particular advice from the Supreme Health Council. I'm not going to go back to that either. For the time being, we're gonna stick to those 35 days. There are even other data that say that even 42 days could be taken. However, we will not do so immediately. We have preferred the elderly for the broad population, then people with comorbidities, and then the general population. The intention is to also vaccinate young people under 18 years of age. Firstly, we have been waiting for clinical studies and, of course, for authorisation by the European Medicines Agency. At present, only the Pfizer vaccine is authorised by the European Medicines Agency to vaccinate 16- and 17-year-olds. This has already happened here and there in the context of vaccinating interns in residential care centres. We have also asked the High Health Council for advice for the 16 to 17 year olds, but there has already been reference to what experts, as Professor De Maeseneer, have said. It seems quite obvious that it is a very good thing to vaccinate 16- to 17-year-olds as well. Mr Beke has already indicated, on the basis of what Professor De Maeseneer has announced in terms of expert advice, that we will plan this in the campaign. The Public Health England study is a highly instructive qualitative study that demonstrates the additional benefits for direct contacts of people who have already received a dose of vaccine. According to an ECDC interim report of 21 April 2021, based on all available information and in the current context, the risk of a person fully vaccinated and infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus transmitting the virus to an unvaccinated person is very low. This information is very interesting and very positive. In addition, the risk for this unvaccinated person to develop a severe form of covid-19 is very low in young adults and middle-aged adults without co-morbidity and moderate in older adults or people with co-morbidities. There is limited evidence available in this regard. These risks depend on several factors, including the age of the unvaccinated person, the presence of different variants of the virus, the nature and duration of contact, compliance with measures, the type of vaccine and the time elapsed after vaccination. The vaccination of each individual is based on the principle of place of residence. Thus, Belgians residing abroad will have an invitation to be vaccinated from the authorities of the country in which they are established. This is the principle that governs the vaccination of Belgians residing abroad. However, we have planned two special cases to which we have wished to respond in order to preserve equal access to vaccination for all Belgian citizens wherever they are. As regards Belgian citizens residing in a country offering the same types of vaccines but who would not have had the possibility of being vaccinated in the country of residence, in particular because practical considerations would prevent them from being vaccinated in their country of residence, it will be possible for them to report this in order to be vaccinated in a single vaccination centre in Belgium, without however being able to derogate from the order of priority established in the context of Belgian vaccination. The second particular case concerns Belgian citizens who would not have the possibility of being vaccinated in their country of residence with vaccines approved by the European Agency or according to the vaccination schedule under way in Belgium. For these citizens, it will be possible to obtain vaccination in Belgium. The vaccination will be organised by the FPS Foreign Affairs in a single vaccination centre in Belgium to the extent possible via a single dose vaccine. The number of Belgians who might be affected by one of these two particular situations remains low. There were quite a few questions about the booster vaccination. The ECDC expects that all fully vaccinated subjects against COVID-19 should receive booster doses at regular intervals. That expectation is actually independent of the initial vaccination schedule and of whether it is a vaccine with one or two doses. Our Task Force Vaccination is in the process of preparing an opinion on a possible phase 3, following the general vaccination campaign. It is too early to decide whether only certain groups, such as patients at risk and older people, will receive a booster or whether this will apply to the general population. It will depend on the duration of the protection of the current vaccines, the type of mutations and so on. There will also be contact with the first line of our healthcare related to this possible reboost. You know that the European Union has ordered 900 million vaccine doses from Pfizer, with an option of 900 million doses. Between December 2021 and June 2022, 450 million doses will be delivered and an additional 450 million between January and June 2023. The deadline for the option on additional orders is 31 December 2023. The Inter-Ministerial Conference has decided not to apply the opt-out we had at our disposal, and so we are de facto on this schedule. We'll be in the first order of 900 million doses at Pfizer. Belgium's share is 23 million doses. You will say that this is a high number, but you will have to bear in mind that it is about the years 2022 and 2023. We may have an additional option that can be lifted before 31 December 2023. An important part of the European Commission's negotiations with Pfizer on these additional supplies was the development of vaccines that are active in new variants. That is particularly important. There is also a commitment to develop vaccines against new variants. There is also the possibility to order a separate paediatric vaccine when available. Among the various options on the table, I can confirm that support for pharmacists and general practitioner groups is well under consideration. Again, this work is forward-looking and primarily conceptual at this stage. The aim of the vaccination campaign is to ensure the protection of the largest part of the population. To hide what could be done tomorrow would be to infantilize the population, which we refuse to do. The engine of vaccination must not be the number of doses that we will be given, but the protection that we contribute to building on an individual scale, but also and especially on a collective level. Questions were asked about deliveries in the coming weeks. In the week of 17 May we confirmed the delivery of 363,870 vaccines from Pfizer, 76,830 vaccines from Moderna and 82,000 vaccines from AstraZeneca. In the week of 24 May another 363 870 vaccines from Pfizer, another 76 830 vaccines from Moderna and 374 000, i.e. a larger number, are expected from AstraZeneca. In the week of 31 May and in the week of 7 June, 733.590 vaccines from Pfizer and 76,800 vaccines from Moderna are concerned. These are all confirmed deliveries. Other deliveries still need to be confirmed. For the second quarter, for example, 1.4 million doses of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine were also ordered, of which 100,000 have been delivered so far. For the time being, we are fully committed to other vaccines. We hope to soon get positive news from Johnson & Johnson. By the way, the numbers of deliveries can always be consulted on the Belvax site. Questions were also asked about Sputnik and Valneva. Our attitude towards the Sputnik vaccine is not changing. We will only consider the possibility of purchasing Sputnik at European level. The submission of a dossier to the EEA is necessary. If a dossier is approved by the EEA without the creation of a European purchase, we will, of course, evaluate it. Talks with Valneva are still ongoing. There may be no advanced purchasing agreement and another negotiated solution may be chosen. Therefore, no advice has yet been requested from our Task Force Vaccination on Valneva's vaccine. Questions were asked about the vaccination passport. The proposal for a regulation on the Digital Green Certificate was discussed in the European Council. The proposal is currently before the European Parliament. The Digital Green Certificate aims to facilitate the fundamental right to move freely within the European Union and to ensure equal treatment of citizens. It includes three alternative elements that are equivalent: a certificate of vaccination, a certificate of negative test and a certificate of recovery. The latter is not mandatory in the current text for the Member States, because there is no sufficient scientific certainty to do so. The first two elements are therefore imposed, a certificate of vaccination and a certificate of negative testing. We strongly support this common European approach. The Digital Green Certificate therefore lays down the same conditions under which it can be awarded and compulsory recognition. It should also provide security in respect of counterfeits. If everything goes according to plan, it must be operational within the European Union as a whole by the end of June. On the other hand, this proposal also leaves sufficient flexibility, for example in the context of possible threats to variants, in order to impose restrictions to ensure public health. As I said in the plenary session, it is very important that the Member States retain responsibility for the policies that may be pursued and for the possible imposition or lifting of restrictions. There are countries in Europe, such as Denmark, which have their own vaccination certificate. In Denmark, such a policy is applied with regard to restaurant visits. That is a policy that we absolutely do not intend to pursue. That's a bit of a false debate. I refer again to the fact that we have asked for an opinion on the comprehensive GEMS on vaccination and freedoms. I hope that this advice will help us to continue the ongoing discussion on how to deal with a Digital Green Certificate or a corona passport or whatever you want to call it. In accordance with the draft European Regulation, the vaccination certificate is issued by the authorities of the country where the vaccination took place. A person vaccinated in France will therefore be able to receive a certificate of vaccination in France. The draft European Regulation provides for an interoperable electronic and paper certificate system. In Belgium, vaccination certificates are distributed centrally. They are based on the information available in Vaccinnet+. The data shall be recorded in these authentic data banks by the healthcare providers or at least under their responsibility after authentication of their identity. In addition, a record of the person who recorded the data in the databases is kept. The data subjects may finally consult their data electronically, check its accuracy and request, if necessary, the correction of their data. The risk of incorrect data being used in certificates remains limited. The authenticity and integrity of electronic and paper certificates will be guaranteed by means of techniques defined in the trust framework developed within the European Union's eHealth network. A description of this trust framework is available online. Mrs Depoorter, I have already said something about the funding of the campaign. On 18 November 2020, in the IMC Public Health, we decided to organise a solidarity funding of the entire ongoing vaccination campaign. Of the total cost, 80% is borne by the federal government and 20% by the Länder. We're calculating that cost. Let me repeat this. It is not because the cost calculation might indicate that the cost elements are different between the Länder, that the federal government will grant different funding to the Länder. Of course it isn't. We will finance the Länder on an equal basis. That seems, frankly, unlikely to me, but I say it anyway to avoid misunderstandings. The IMC has also agreed to make vaccines that will not be used available under the COVAX mechanism. It's about gifts from the month of June. Belgium fully bears the cost of these vaccines. That is also what we are looking at in the IMC. Europe accounts for 75% of the cost of transport and the balance is borne by the recipient country. I personally believe that, in times of a pandemic, one should look at the existing legal framework of patents and intellectual property rights and also dare to look again in the light of what is needed in that pandemic. Everything must be dedicated to public health. Governments also come up with massive financial support to finance research and thus to help carry business risks. This is an important debate at European and international level. There is currently a pandemic treaty at international level. This is undoubtedly one of the elements that is being taken into account. In the Belgian Government, too, everyone agrees that a situation in which poorer countries are unable to provide themselves with vaccines quickly is not only unacceptable, but also harmful to ourselves. We use the COVAX program as a maximum method. But that will certainly not be enough. Our Minister for Development, Mrs Kitir, is following up on the issue. This is not really about ideological discussions, but about what we can do to ensure that vaccines are made available on a large scale as soon as possible. Belgium belongs to a relatively small group of countries that support the so-called Costa Rica initiative, as well as the idea of creating a technology access pool in the framework of COOVID-19. I think we need to bring that kind of mechanism to life. We need to think, in every possible way, how to make vaccines available to poorer countries. With regard to vaccination readiness, I will not repeat the available data; they have recently been in the media. These are interesting studies that indicate differences in vaccination readiness between groups of people based on a socio-demographic distinction. One also sees a distinction between the Dutch-speaking population and the French-speaking population, in short a distinction in the Regions. I think it is less easy to reach people and convince them of vaccination for understandable reasons in a big city like Brussels. But my colleagues who are responsible in Brussels and Wallonia are developing all kinds of additional actions to overcome hesitations with regard to vaccination. As regards the side effects, five reports of anaphylactic shock and 45 reports of anaphylactic reactions were recorded in Belgium at the time the answers to the questions of Mrs Depoorder and Mr Creyelman were made. I can't tell you exactly where those patients were treated, but in 2 out of 5 cases of anaphylactic shock, the treatment is mentioned. This involves the use of an EpiPen. That's an adrenaline shot. In 3 out of 5 cases of anaphylactic shock, the patient was hospitalized. Of one of the five cases, I know there was a complete recovery. Three patients who were recovering were also released from the hospital at the time of the report. I did not have any more information on this at the time of writing out the reply. For the risk of allergic and anaphylactic reactions, I refer to the recommendation of the Supreme Health Council, which also sets out various precautionary measures, depending on the estimated risk. This could be from a ban on vaccination before an allergologist has given advice, to the important standard measures whereby a patient should remain under observation at the vaccination centre for at least 15 minutes. There is no specific advice for patients' relatives. When people are in doubt, it is best to contact their doctor, doctor or vaccination centre. To date, 86 cases of serious allergic conditions have been reported. There are no known cases of mucormycosis in Belgium, i.e. a major fungal infection, following COVID-19 vaccination, to which Mr Creyelman referred. This is a so-called opportunistic infection that occurs only in patients with severe immunosuppression. The increased incidence in India is mainly due to weak health conditions and poor hygiene conditions in a large part of the Indian population. The American Heart Association has developed a protocol for the treatment of thrombotic symptoms. The Belgian Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis has also placed guidelines on the issue for doctors on its website, and she also refers to the British guidelines, not those of the AHA. Additional information may be provided to the committee on this matter, if required. There were also questions about Doclr. The Doclr contract is a service contract which was awarded by a negotiated procedure without prior publication in accordance with Article 42, § 1, (b) of the Law of 17 June 2016. The specifications were sent on 11 January 2021 to nine companies that all have experience in booking software, including Afspraken.be, Corilus, Doclr, Doctena, Golazo Sports, Introlution, Medici-MTC, MediPortal and Progenda. Three of them submitted an offer for January 18, 2021, the closing date for the submission of the offer, namely Doclr, Doctena and Medici-MTC. The award of the contract was submitted and approved by CIM on 20 January. After this approval Smals formally awarded the contract. A detailed security policy is available on the booking application website. A first version of the data protection impact assessment has been prepared. If necessary in implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Authority will be consulted. In the week of 22-28 March, more than 300,000 invitations were sent, nearly 300,000 vaccination registrations were fixed or confirmed, and more than 300,000 vaccinations were registered. Each of these actions requires the efficient operation of Doclr and related systems. These figures demonstrate that this system is working in an acceptable manner. There were problems initially, mainly due to changes that had to be made to the Doclr system. These were changes that were intended to respond to the way the invitation process was organised in each region. It was often complex changes. Of course, there were also childhood diseases, but I think those problems have been solved by now. As a result of these problems, additional testing, analysis and development capacity were added to the teams responsible for managing the invitation systems. It can't be that people choose a vaccine via the reservation application. Only at the end of the reservation, after the appointment has been made and a confirmation has been sent, will the name of the vaccine be shown. This is the case both in Brussels and in the other regions. The only difference is that a vaccination centre can be chosen in Brussels and in the major cities of Wallonia and Flanders, but everyone receives a vaccine in the same way. Mobile vaccination teams of Defense are deployed at the request of the regional authorities. They are responsible for organising vaccination policy. At present, at the request of the French-speaking Community, there are 12 teams of 2 soldiers operating in Wallonia. They support the vaccination of residents of residential care centres who have not yet been vaccinated for various reasons. At the request of the Flemish Community, 10 such teams are on standby to join the local vaccination centres if there is an acute need for vaccination staff locally. The mobile teams, which are made available by the Defense Department, consist only of military personnel. As mentioned above, they are already active in Wallonia and stand-by in Flanders. They mainly use Johnson & Johnson. Home vaccination is the responsibility of the Länder and varies considerably from one region to another, as far as the date is concerned. Not everyone in Brussels has yet received a date for home vaccination. It depends on the registrations. The vaccinations started on 30 April and 939 vaccinations have already been administered. In the first four days, AstraZeneca was given and Johnson & Johnson is now used. In Wallonia, general practitioners in the vaccination centres can obtain prepared doses to vaccinate people at home. About 5,000 people have already been vaccinated by home vaccination. Johnson and Johnson are also vaccinated as much as possible. As far as the syringes are concerned, Mrs Depootere, VPex has received two orders for a total of 15 million syringes. Prices vary from 0.32 to 0.39 euros. We have also ordered syringes from China as a solution to VPex's delivery problems. These syringes are CE compliant. The quality is not comparable to the syringes for which we already have an ongoing contract. The following comments were made by the hospital pharmacists and the vaccination centres that tested the syringes. First of all, the edge prevents a good grip. Secondly, the syringe works hard, with a plunger sticking to the wall when the doses are withdrawn. Thirdly, there is an underdosing of 0.29 milliliters instead of 0.3 milliliters. Finally, there are four times more bubbles in the vaccine that are impossible to remove without tapping the syringe, but RNA vaccines are shock-sensitive. The conclusion was that these syringes may be an alternative when delivery problems arise, but they are not the first choice, because VPex's syringes are qualitatively superior in the field. Sufficient syringes have been ordered to ensure the vaccination campaign in Belgium. The zero-dead volume syringes allowed us to accelerate this campaign, which is very important. Potentially, 22.6 million of this type of syringes were purchased. If this proves to be too much, it is possible to reduce a certain quantity. The total estimated need was almost 16 million syringes. An exact need will depend on the delivery of the vaccines and whether it is one or two doses. Account should also be taken of a small waste resulting from manipulation, errors in vaccination centres, possible unpredictable manufacturing defects, and the administration of an additional dose that may be necessary. In mid-March 2021, I delivered the file on compensation premiums for home nurses' protective equipment to the Secretary of State for Budget. The dossier will be discussed at the Council of Ministers of 21 May 2021. The notes of the RIZIV Insurance Committee are always attached to the decisions submitted for an opinion. They already contain a broad explanation of the reasons for the decision and the reasoning behind it. As a function of the decision of the Council of Ministers, the Royal Decree will be published and payments will be made. No compensation shall be provided for other than compensation for equipment and protective materials. Mr. President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u56	Thank you. We're starting the lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You mentioned the recordings on intensive care. You say that there is still a problem with reporting. I'm surprised. I find that very difficult to understand, because just like that, these data give an idea of the severity of the epidemic, on the basis of which the flat rates are determined and on the basis of which hospitals are reimbursed. I find it very strange that we have so little vision of this. I understand that this is true at the beginning of an epidemic, but we have been more than a year now. I find it difficult to understand that there is still so little visibility. You also mentioned the risk of death per ethnicity. You say that there is no statistically significant difference, but you say that there are a lot of confiding factors that have not yet been taken into account. There must be a cross-section of databases to make sense of that. I find it odd that you can come to the conclusion that there is no statistically significant link. I agree with you that any problem of access to care needs to be addressed. You say that the VUB study revealed a pain point there. Sciensano's been collecting that data since June. Why has there been so long waiting to do something with that? International studies also show that there are problems that need to be addressed. I am very sorry that there has been so long waiting to do further analyses. On the subject of seroprevalence, you say that there are still scarce data. I think that is a pity, too. Data are the new gold is said. Especially in a crisis like this, it is so important that we have a clear view of the spread of these infections. We need to be able to assess the extent of this seroprevalence at the moment. You said that 18% of the blood donors tested positive. These are December 2020 figures. I really hope that more recent figures are available. Professor Molenberghs spoke of an estimate of 3 million Belgians who would be seropositive for COVID-19. According to the assessment by Professor of Biostatistics Barbé, even 42% of Belgians would test positive. We really need to get a clear picture of this, because it has a major impact on society and, possibly, on resolving the measures. You indicated that the federal testing platform bis performs 41,000 to 96,000 tests per week. However, we pay them for 112,000 tests per week. How many tests have they already carried out and how many have we paid too much? I can imagine that huge sums of money have been wrongly paid for this, because it is a question of forfeits that are based on estimates. I believe that this has been overestimated and that it should be cut as soon as possible. That cannot possibly continue to drag on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u58	Mrs Van Camp, you have 20 seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u59	Mr President, that will be a real challenge because I still have to share that time with a colleague. Minister, I will confine myself to expressing my indignation. In fact, I have the same questions about the care staff all the time, and you are not able to answer them. For example, you cannot justify the delay in paying the compensation premium for protective equipment. Since March, I have been asking what you are going to do about the postponement and whether compensation is provided for it. You always leave that question unanswered, which shows a total lack of respect for the care staff. The answer to my other questions also bears witness to this. You say that it is quite possible that illegal immigrants are released without a test or vaccine and that it is also possible that the measures are not being complied with, but that this is not really your problem. After all, you say that you are not competent to do so. When I checked it last time, however, you were responsible for health. So it should be your problem and you could at least give a signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u60	I shall turn the floor to the Ecolo-Groen Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u61	Mr President, I am very disappointed in you. That is the last thing I would like to say before I give the floor to my colleague, Mrs Kathleen Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u62	Mr President, I will reply briefly. We have a right to that. You must allow us to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u63	That is not true, because I gave your group four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u64	Mr President, instead of discussing it, I will reply. Minister, it is a good thing that you are looking for a forfait and that you are now confirming that the Fleming will not have to pay for the vaccination campaign which is much more expensive in Wallonia than in Flanders. However, I invite you to choose the most economical forfait. You can see for yourself that the vaccination campaign in Flanders is efficient and economical. So if Wallonia and Brussels want to spend more, I invite you to have them pay the bill yourself. I also invite you to show some scientific honesty. (...) The Chair: I ask you to conclude!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u65	Mr President, the Minister has exceeded his time. Then why can't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u66	Your group had four minutes to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u67	I think I'm gonna have a very brief reply. Minister, it is a question of scientific correctness. With regard to the plexiglass walls, I would like to point out that aerosols are not stopped by surgical mouth masks. If you feel that the hospitality industry should not use plexiglass walls because the virus is transmitted via aerosols, why not prohibit the use of surgical mouth masks on bus and tram, why not require FFP2 masks? You're spreading scientifically incorrect information. You referred to the vaccines for COVAX. It is very noble that we should give the surplus to third world countries, but I would like you to know who will pay for it. You don't know that today. You didn't answer me. Finally, I would like to make my final point. Your 1,500 psychologists are there 12. You did not answer but the 1,500 extra (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to my question about the unequal mortality rate according to ethnicity. A view of this is important, since in Belgium we are traditionally somewhat reluctant to keep statistics according to ethnicity. Besides, in other areas of health care and, for example, labour market policy, I recently read that the taboo is disappearing a bit. Such statistics are kept in countries such as the United Kingdom or the United States. They can provide interesting insights, especially because certain diseases can manifest themselves differently. In clinical studies, this can then be further examined. Now we have little insight into the side effects of medicines according to ethnicity. Furthermore, there is also gender databias in clinical studies for women. It is certainly not the intention to confirm ethnic stereotypes or to introduce statistical discrimination. However, it is important to understand certain mechanisms. There must therefore, as you say, be a scientific basis. Certain variables relevant for analysis should be included. I fully agree with you when you say that socio-economic factors must be monitored and that the link between databases must be made with respect for privacy. You indicate that we will not have an analysis of excess mortality before 2022. Perhaps it is a general pain in this crisis that certain dates are only available very late. The SERV has already given its opinion in this respect. Due to the late availability of figures, it is not always possible to adjust the policy. Maybe there's a little bit of a tooth in that area. I fully agree, of course, with you that the VUB study reveals the importance of looking at health inequalities and that COOVID-19 brings back the existing health inequalities. It is very good that you say that, and I also support your policy ambitions in the field of health in all policies. It is important that the government agreement includes that you want to reduce the health gap and that you pay attention to the accessibility of care. You must keep the patient bill low so that people do not delay care, but it is also important to pay even more attention to preventive healthcare. Perhaps the funding of our healthcare system is not always provided for, but that is also an important pain that is exposed by the current health crisis. Finally, you also referred to health literacy. That is a very interesting concept that must certainly be examined. I wish you every success and thank you very much for your answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u69	Mrs. H annoyance, do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u70	Mr President, it will be very short. I don't really have a reply, because I didn't get answers to my questions. This is rather frustrating, because I had already turned two into written questions, precisely to lighten the debate. I hope that we will find a better way to work in the future. I can understand that a lot of questions are being asked, but I think that anyone who has tabled a question likes to get an answer. We may have to review our method, but in this way it is not correct. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u71	Thank you, Mr President, for not forgetting us. Minister, I would also like to thank you for your answers. My question about the app was not whether the app is working or not, but whether it has contributed to the containment of the pandemic. You didn't really answer that. I also note with regard to the second injection of the Pfizer vaccine that the results of the British study will not affect the vaccination strategy in our country. I would also like to thank you for the very clear answer on the black fungus infection in the aftermath of the corona infection. For the financial optimisation by certain hospitals, I suggest that you ask for recent figures. The slide dates back to June 2020, if I am not mistaken. Moreover, it cannot be the intention to exploit scarce resources that can be better used elsewhere, especially in the present times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which were quite complete this time. About the hopping of vaccines, you indicate that the vaccination centre can be chosen in Brussels. That seems to be where the problem lies. A number of clicks also allow you to see which vaccine is given at which vaccination centre. You don't solve the problem of shopping. Apparently, not all Belgians are the same after all. As far as the different costs of vaccination are concerned, you cannot blame us for asking a question. In view of the numerous transfers from Flanders to Wallonia in this country, it is normal that we should ask that question. We shall follow this with our own eyes. As far as immunity is concerned, I have pointed that out several times. I have also asked your predecessor about this. Apparently, you don't think it's so important, but I think it's easy to check. If all general practitioners were allowed to look at immunity via the antibodies in patients' blood during each blood test, a more complete overview of the immunity among the population would be provided. This is very important in managing the crisis and in connection with the vaccination campaign. As far as the brain mist is concerned, you have documented my question. That was not exactly what the question was. You seem to be playing down the fact that the corona measures can also lead to brain mist. I think you're really underestimating the effects of the corona measures. You say that the price of the tests has yet to be considered. I'll really fall off my chair again. This reminds me of the previous government, where all sorts of things had to be considered. I hope they saw it coming anyway that it would be vaccination or testing. If you say that vaccination should not become mandatory, but should be free, then you should no longer think about it and offer the tests, as an alternative to vaccination, for free.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u73	Minister, I understand that you are in the process of putting in place tools to monitor the situation in a comprehensive manner, precisely in the different categories of care. It's positive, but you don't say when they'll be operational. On the other hand, you confirm that additional financial efforts will be required to increase capacity by at least 25%, but you are not saying exactly what you are putting in place. I will therefore ask you again, particularly in the light of the next report, hoping that the KCE's December report will have been followed by then. It is essential that decisions can now be made to help hospitals, whether it is to take care not provided – and which will have to be – or for the risk of a new epidemic peak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u74	I had already announced in the cat that I no longer have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u75	Mr. Minister, the most problematic point in your answer is that of nursing staff. I am thinking of the increasing delay in advances and interventions for personal protective equipment (PPE), but also of your lack of response to the failure of nurses to take into account the calculation of weekends and late hours in vaccination centres. It's incomprehensible! Then I hear you say you're open to free testing, including for vacation departures. However, it is a preventive screening. It will therefore be necessary to see whether it will be the responsibility of the federal or the Regions to intervene. In any case, it's essential. So I will continue to play my stinging role. As far as immunized people are concerned, the figure of 18% seems to me to have to be revised, because it is far too late. When you say adding the immunized to the people who have received a first vaccine injection, that is obviously not right. In this case, many vaccinated people had already been infected with covid. They were the most exposed audience. Therefore, these two categories cannot be added together. As far as the variants are concerned, I would like to appeal to you to be careful not to repeat the mistakes we have already made before. In this case, only the tip of the iceberg is known. When we see the speed of development in neighbouring countries, but also in our own countries, of this variant B1.617.2, we see how the situation remains a real threat, especially to the Indian variant. I conclude quickly with two points on vaccination. With regard to Belgians abroad, particularly in areas where variants circulate very quickly, we have every interest in vaccinating them on the spot rather than in Belgium. This is the case in India and South America. Otherwise, we risk bringing these variants back to Belgium. You say that in Wallonia, the name of the vaccine does not appear before making an appointment via the Internet. Minister, that is not correct. It appears. I invite you to discuss with the regional ministers whether there are any arrangements to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u76	Mr President, I would like to apologize to the members of the committee who have not received an answer. We really need to think about the procedure. When I get 80 to 100 frequently interesting but detailed questions in terms of answers, it's not easy. Not having an answer is a bit frustrating for me, but it's especially frustrating for the members. I apologise again to the few members who have not received an answer but I am doing my best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u77	Perhaps questions that are requests for figures should be differentiated, which should be systematically from written questions. Indeed, it is a bit tedious to hear enumerations of figures, which would be more easily usable in writing than orally. You have to think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic477x.u78	Mr President, I can agree with you, but on condition that the answers are given quickly. With regard to non-covid questions, it can be seen that when one kindly turns one's oral questions into written questions, while the commitment to answer immediately is made, it takes several weeks before one receives the answers. So necessarily, it motivates us to keep as oral questions those that could have been transformed. If everyone plays the game, I agree. I didn't really ask for figures today. But it seems to me that everyone would accept, provided that it happens in both directions.
