ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u2	Yesterday, the images of the Capitol assault and the violence deployed in Washington struck us deeply. Real scenes of chaos took place before our eyes. This violence at the heart of American democracy is totally unacceptable. Following the entry of supporters of the outgoing president into the US Parliament building, the Capitol in Washington, to prevent Congress from ratifying Joe Biden's November 2020 election victory, four people were killed and 52 were arrested. What happened yesterday in Washington shows once again how fragile democracy remains, even in the United States of America, which some regard as the greatest democracy in the world. Fragile democracy, besieged democracy, threatened democracy. The concerns are numerous and legitimate in view of the exceptional events that took place yesterday. These facts demonstrate the importance of resolutely fighting against populism and against any attack on our most fundamental values. The pillar of democracy is to respect the results of free elections, to bring together rather than divide, and above all to condemn expressions of hatred. At the beginning of this new year, I hope that democracy will emerge strengthened from this intolerable and unheard-of affront. On behalf of the House, I will convey our full support to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, and to American parliamentarians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u3	Madam President, the government can only support your comments. The scenes of chaos we witnessed yesterday on the Capitol mountain were disturbing and shocking. A blow that we wanted to put at the heart of American democracy. A democracy can never take the form of the dictatorship of the majority, but in return, a democratically elected parliament and a democratically elected president also have the right to govern. It is the institutions that decide it, not the men and women politicians or the candidates. It is hallucinating that this should actually be said today, because the fundamental rules of the game, the fundamental rules of the ground, the basic principles of our democracy, can be so under pressure. So we have apparently reached a point where democratic majorities can no longer be captured peacefully in the ballot box, but must be physically defended, in the streets of the capital, down to the corridors of Congress. But we have also seen the resilience of American democracy this night. After yesterday's disgrace, today the parliamentary ratification of Joe Biden as the new president came. This must convince us more than ever that respect for each other, but also respect for the institutions, is the best guarantee of democracy, which is so dear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u4	I propose that you move on to our agenda and begin the oral questions. Speaking time is limited to two minutes for the question, two minutes for the reply of the member of the government and one minute for the reply of the questioner. As a reminder. But as we begin the year, I imagine we have all made good resolutions to respect speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u5	First of all, my best wishes to everyone. Madam President, Prime Minister, last night the United States Parliament building was occupied. Everyone could see that extreme right-wing elements have imitated a coup, as a farce but also as a threat, to show what they are capable and willing to do. The fact that some of the security forces did not intervene, or hardly did, shows how bad the situation is. There is something rotten in the state of the USA . That doesn't come from the sky, but it's been yeasting for a long time, as we know. There is a situation where on the one hand millions of people fall out of the boat and feel that they do not count and are not heard, and on the other hand a hate movement has been sowing racism and division for years. That leads to the result we saw yesterday. Trumpism is a danger to us too. We should not pretend that Europe is free from that kind of scene. Trumpism is also here, even in our Parliament. These are people who call law-and-order as soon as the union defends the working class on the street, but who have no problem with despots rejecting the election results. These are people who are crying out against the establishment, but at the same time applauding for Trump's fiscal reform, which has made the six hundred richest billionaires in the United States even richer. It is about people who say they stand up for the little man, but at the same time support the breakdown of health care. That is why I say that trumpism cannot be combated by the status quo. Trumpism cannot be combated by the social inequality we know today. Prime Minister, what will you do to take away the breeding ground of trumpism from us too?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u6	Mr Prime Minister, yesterday we all looked with disbelief at the images from the United States. I have to be honest: when I opened my social media this morning, that disbelief might have been reinforced a little bit. We can all say here that there is an ocean between us, that something like this will never happen in our country, that our democracy is still a lot stronger, but what I saw above all is that some people are too easy to compare with our country and dare to say that politics in our country does not take it too close to democracy either. There are even Members who today, while we are seeing these images from America, are spreading, repeating and tweeting that message, in a deliberate way. Yesterday we saw how dangerous it is to spread and sow hatred, division and populism for years. The United States is now coming to that point after a journey of more than four years. Fortunately, we have not yet reached that stage, but that journey has already started, and we must be extremely concerned about it: if we see that there are colleagues who no longer condemn fake news but sometimes strengthen them, if we see that our democratic principles are sometimes reduced to election slogans or if we see less than two months ago that a former Secretary of State, who knows very well what it is to run a country, speaks with some admiration of Trump as someone who does politics in a smart way. Today we can pretend that what happened yesterday, there was suddenly, that we were all shocked by it, and we are absolutely shocked by it, but that has not just happened. That is something that has been going on for months, years and it is also because of Trump's words that they unfortunately arrived at that point yesterday. That is also my message today, Prime Minister. The journey to it does matter, that journey, those words matter. Do you recognize that there are extreme groups in our country that sow hatred and division? What will you do to tackle the fake news and populism in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this night's assault on the Capitol is a shock to all the friends of the United States and to all the friends of democracy in the world. The folly of this man who leads the world's greatest power has deeply divided his people, sowing hatred and chaos. This assault was made on the appeal of the President of the United States at the very moment when there was certification of Joe Biden's election. What Donald Trump did was not just attack democracy. It is not just a matter of attacking the rule of law. It's not just trampling on the American vote. It's about the reason. Our societies are not unscathed. They are in fact not immune to these conspiracyist, hateful, paranoid currents. As you said, Prime Minister, it is a danger that ultimately threatens all democracies, even if they are resilient. What happened last night in the United States concerns us all. What I expect of you, Prime Minister, is obviously firm words, such as those you have had. But maybe we need to go further. I think it must be said today that Trump is out of the law. I think it must be said that he is no longer an interlocutor, even for the next ten days, that he is no longer a partner, that we will have nothing more to do with him and that he will never again be welcome in Belgium. What I expect of you, Prime Minister, are very firm words here in this Parliament, at the heart of this democracy that we cherish. Indeed, this conspiracy and hatred could win our own democracy through social networks, which today, in some cases, are weapons of mass destruction. I hear, Prime Minister, that on this ground too, you are very vigilant. That will be one of the issues in this legislature. I'm also waiting for you on this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the events in the United States yesterday leave us with no voice. People's elected officials threatened in their integrity and prevented from carrying out their mission, clashes within the Capitol itself, and worse, of course, a woman shot dead within the building itself, and three other deaths outside. Democracy was attacked in the heart yesterday by the supporters of an outgoing president who was beaten in the ballot box and who constantly prompted them to act. Remember, remember, remember, remember, On December 29, Donald Trump warned: "See you in Washington on January 6, don't miss that!" But you mustn't misunderstand it. Such acts are only the result of a climate of hatred, self-absorbing and populism that is present in most Western democracies. They must alert us all. They are a warning to all democracies in the world, all women and all politicians. They illustrate the fragility of our democratic systems when fundamental principles and values are eroded and the field is left open to populists and extremists of all kinds, and when the highest political authorities of a state, as we have also seen during the Brexit campaign, manipulate shamefully and act only by simplistic or slogans. I turn to all my colleagues to tell them that we must fight the trap of simplicity and ease. In just eighteen months in this House, I am appalled at the extent to which extremist parties use and abuse it and, at the same time, damage the democracy that, as elected officials, we are in fact all guarantors. Prime Minister, in view of these considerations, what is your message of support to the new US authorities? As far as the state of American democracy is concerned, do you have any particular concern? Do you fear that this detour of democracy will end up finding an echo at home in Belgium? Finally, what message do you wish to convey to those among our fellow citizens who welcome these events and support extreme ideas? Let us hope, Prime Minister, that Joe Biden's victory is now validated by Congress, that the situation will calm down, and that our relations with the United States will be able to recover once the transition is completed. That is the wish underlying the resolution I have with Mrs Jadin and my colleagues in the Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, a year ago we received images and messages of a virus in China, the coronavirus. For a long time we thought that virus wouldn't reach us, wouldn't happen to us. Today the images and messages reach us from a completely different virus from the United States, the virus of hatred and polarization. Don't let us make the same mistake twice. That virus of hatred can happen to us and reach us. In fact, that virus of hatred has already reached us, has already happened to us, has even reached this hemisphere, our capitol. As in the United States, this virus has infected a minority, but it has a minority of superdistributors, making it difficult to fight the virus of hatred and actually demands the commitment of all of us. It has been shown once again how fragile and fragile our democracy is, how dependent it is on the commitment of all of us, our persistence and our ability to fight. Actually, we already know the vaccine for that virus. That vaccine is all of us, our attachment, our alertness to democracy. There is also hope in that regard. The day of January 6, 2021 is not only the day of the storming of the Capitol, it is also the day on which a black senator was elected for the first time in Georgia, after a record show. Indeed, it is also the time when American democracy has told Joe Biden that it is now up to him to lead this country, to steer the world a different direction. That responsibility lies with all of us. It is with you, Prime Minister, but also with teachers in the classroom and with all of us. There is also an important role for this government, for this Vivaldic coalition, at national and international level. Joining Joe Biden is an opportunity, a momentum. Grab that momentum. Build a strong alliance between America and Europe for democracy. The battle must also be fought here. The fight against polarisation, fake news and the far right must be stepped up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u10	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the hallucinatory attack on the Capitol is a warning to all democracies. That's a warning we've heard a few times today. On the high day of democracy, Trump lost control of the fanatical believers who were rushed by his tweets to literally smash into the windows of the Capitol. As an unadulterated punk, he himself with his standard blurring, cross-border and indecent behavior has raised the middle finger to American democracy. She's a follower of the band. She did the same thing in a hurry or in a jiffy. A president unworthy, a loser in every sense of the word. Colleagues, Washington is an ocean away from us but this is not a far-from-my-bed show. Some colleagues are flirting with trumpism and I hope that the dangers of these strategies have now become clear. A prominent colleague tweeted as a result of the election of the American president: "By responding to great emotions such as revenge, my party can be there again next time. The rhetoric can become a copy-paste of what Trump is already doing." Irresponsible, as it turns out. Fake news is also a danger in our country. A parallel information circuit arises on certain social media and internet forums and people who can no longer be reached via regular media are poisoned with fake news. People lose faith in our democracy by manipulative messages. We urgently need an update of our democracy in this digital age. The intention to tackle fake news is also in our coalition agreement. My question is therefore very simple. Prime Minister, how is the government going to deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, over the last few months we have seen many polarising forms of protest and even violence in the United States. Yesterday, the incumbent President discredited the system by crossing a new red line by questioning the legitimacy of the democratic system. I have to tell you that as a conservative, I must express my deepest disapproval of that kind of revolutionary nonsense. I am glad that American democracy can bear that punch. She's intact. Biden will be president soon. What was tried yesterday will only be a pathetic illustration of powerlessness and let it remain so. I have the impression that yesterday some people looked at the images with a clear sense of instrumentalisation. It was thought that the events in Parliament today could be used or, better, abused. This is because I hear a new danger emerging between the rules. Minister, we must learn that the rule of law is fundamental. Do I have to remind you that 25 constitutional specialists have asked whether your government has complied with the rules of the rule of law in the drafting of corona measures? You must be attentive to that. I also hear hidden calls for a different foundation, in particular the right to freedom of expression. I fear that in your coalition agreement, by saying that you will fight fake news, you have taken a dangerous path. I want to be assured today that you will not allow the foundations of our democracy, freedom of expression, to be undermined in any way during your reign. That is the best way of doing democracy a good service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you ain't seen nothing yet. When we witnessed Donald Trump's leaked call to a state minister of justice, in which he tried to settle the case of a number of missing votes, I thought he had not only reached the bottom, but had fallen through. So it could be worse. We all witnessed this yesterday. We saw people storming the Capitol, destroying and smashing the place short and small, and all of that, stirred up by a populist, stirred up by a demagogue, who is the incumbent president of the United States. We expected that in many countries. We didn't expect that in the USA, the country of the free. However, that cannot happen from today to tomorrow. That was built up: lies became half truths, four years in a row, and media and social media were used to rattle people, to divide society. Contesting the elections seemed to be the highlight, unworthy of a rule of law. Not only is he a loser, Mrs Van Hoof, a very bad loser in addition. What he did yesterday should be the subject of an in-depth investigation in the USA: what have the law enforcement services done, what have the law enforcement services not done? You know me, Prime Minister, as someone who naturally has a grudge against everything that tends towards extremism, towards demagogy. I, Mr De Roover, do not really need foreign examples for internal Belgian use. If the shoe fits, put it on. There are examples abroad that concern me; there are also examples in our country. On social media, too, hate speech is being spread here, which you catalogue as a free speech, but which I qualify as inciting violence, inciting crime. In my view, such a thing is punishable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, President Trump has begun to proclaim that "they are taking away your job." Then he moved on and suggested that "they take away your land." A few weeks ago, he started claiming that "they're taking away your election." What has now happened is the direct consequence of such rhetoric. To put it in the words of Angela Merkel: "Watch your language, for language is the forerunner of action." Once language goes the wrong way, it also goes the wrong way. In that case, violence is no longer far away. The mob that has taken US Congress has done so on the basis of President Trump's inflammatory speech. That's what happened. It is someone who was willing to do anything, who was willing to divide his country to the point of achieving his political goals. It was a presidency that wasn't just a break in style. It was a presidency that wasn't just a problem of style. Colleagues, you know, those who have been concerned over the past few years about what has been going on, what many have done here in the hemisphere, were not hysterical, as some have claimed. They were not blinded by aversion. The questions they asked themselves then were correct questions. More than four years of rhetorical violence has led to the happening and the continuous undermining of those institutions that are to ensure that democracy can function. A democracy is the best guarantee for all opinions, including the opinion of the minority. A democracy is only as strong as the politicians who defend it and its institutions. Luckily, we've seen that defense over the last few hours. We saw a unanimous aversion to what was happening. We saw a president who saw his last allies leaving and American institutions who have shown how robust they can be, even in the most difficult circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, we must defend ourselves against those who systematically spread lies; those who constantly feed fear; those who cause deep divisions within the population. In fact, the real difference in the way in which politics is made is that on the one hand there are those who view democracy, yes, as a debate, a debate where ideas can be confronted, but a debate guided by the general interest, and a debate of which one is convinced that the result, the result of the confrontation of different ideas, will be for the benefit of everyone, and not only of those whom one sees as allies. On the other hand, a small minority abuses this debate, and only wants to raise citizens against each other. When the ugly words become ugly acts, when they trigger conflicts, with deadly consequences, as we saw yesterday, so too often we see that those responsible raise their arms and say they have nothing to do with it: "That was not our intention at all." It's always the democrats who have to clean up after that. It is always those who stand up for democracy and have often warned, who then have to come and solve the problems. Every day we must continue to invest in the functioning of democracy. That's something we have to do every day. The functioning of democracy is not something that exists and that remains automatic. It's something we have to keep feeding. Some of you have asked what my government's intentions are with regard to the kind of mechanisms we have seen in the United States. In the coalition agreement there is indeed a passage about the fight against fake news. I think we should fight this, but we should also be careful. A democracy must not be muzzled. It is a particularly difficult and delicate balance, but more than just a task for a government, it is also a task for a strong civil society, a task for a critical press, a task for strong research institutions. Let me make it clear again what this really is about. There is a kind of confusion of concepts here. What this really is about is disinformation that is used intensively, systematically and over and over again to degrade a particular group, destabilize a particular person, damage a particular group, create discord, push towards polarization and lead to conflict. I hope there is absolutely no doubt about this in this hemisphere, we must go fully into the fight against this kind of disinformation, and we must not hesitate to take measures to counter this kind of communication. We cannot simply say that such a thing must be possible, because there is freedom of expression. I hope that the past events have convinced us of this. I would like to add the following. Let us also stay away from a particular rhetoric, a rhetoric in which one would claim that elections were stolen or that a certain majority would be an illegal majority. Let us be clear, the only guiding principle we have is the Constitution and the rules of the Constitution. In the way we do politics, it's about rules, but it's about more than that. It is also about the style and the way we conduct politics, the way we show respect for each other's opinions, that we can have a fierce debate. In this hemisphere there are very often very intense debates, but we can have a strong debate and then we can go through one door together. We can be sharp about content, but that does not mean that we need to be sharp for the person. A fierce debate is perfectly possible without suspicions, without taunting each other and without trying to provoke a conflict. Political companies are listening to each other, clashing with each other and indeed knowing that a majority must be able to work, but that does not mean that there is also a kind of dictatorship of the majority. We must also be able to listen to a minority and a minority must be respected in the role it can play. That is the best guarantee in a society of different opinions to ensure that a democracy can function, that differences of opinion can strengthen us and lead to a result for the whole population, without having to polarise constantly and drive people apart, with the consequences we have seen in the United States. I am convinced that there is no reason in our country to ever have to reach that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, it is true that words have their interest. Do you remember how MR and Open Vld mentioned our proposal, when we asked here in the Chamber in October 2019 for additional funds for an emergency fund for care? Popular. It was populist to ask for more money for care. If we say here that in the coming years redistribution against social inequality is a crucial issue and we are therefore proposing a capital tax, as exists in many other countries, what answer will we receive? Popularism! We have a problem in this hemisphere when any criticism of the government is dismissed as populism. So pay attention to your words, even in this debate, and mention things by name. The problem is not populism in general. The problem is racism. The problem is trumpism. The problem is the inequality, which I have heard very little about in the debate. Until we combat this growing inequality, trumpism will not be overcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Yesterday, I heard President Joe Biden say that democracy is fragile, but depends on the goodwill of a lot of people. Well, I have heard good will from many people here today, good will to protect our democracy. It is all the more important to apply this goodwill outside the hemisphere, to social media, to the street, wherever we go. That seems to me to be a task and a responsibility of all of us. I am glad that I have heard a strong statement from you, but I hope that everyone will actually accept that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u16	Prime Minister, you are right: populism is a danger that concerns us all. Today, there is a significant distrust of all institutions in the broad sense, be it politicians, scientists, magistrates, the media, teachers, the whole of what constitutes the foundations of our civilization, our knowledge and our progress. This is a considerable societal challenge for the future. It's an issue you're going to face. I ask you to be extremely vigilant about this issue and to make it one of the priorities of your agenda. Indeed, all our democracies today have at their doors people, sometimes supported by dictators, who aim to weaken a model that hinders them, the model that we cherish: democracy, this democracy at the heart of Belgium, at the heart of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for your words. You are right: democracy is the art of compromise. Yes, democracy presupposes concessions and implies that we agree to lose. Yes, democracy can often seem frustrating. More than anything else, democracy is freedom. It involves responsibility and consists of giving everyone the power to decide, because it is the certainty that everyone can be represented. The attacks on American democracy and these tragic events in the Capitol are not only the result of four years of trumpism; they are the symptom of a tired and sick society, which suffers from the virus of populism and conspiracy. Don't think we're safe! In our own home, this evil is developing. It is enough to observe social networks, ladies and gentlemen, to see the development of a group like "Schild & Vrienden" in Flanders or to have seen the cartoons committed by extremist parties. We must always cultivate democracy and never lose sight of it as a fragile and precious asset. In 1835, when he observed the functioning of democracy in America, Alexis de Tocqueville warned that: "More than the corruption of some, it is the release of all who is the danger of society." Let's not forget it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u18	Prime Minister, you gave a very firm and yet very serene answer. Mr Depraetere has just said that there is a great deal of consensus and I would like to call for this consensus to be translated into action. Several political groups have the ambition to revise Article 150 of the Constitution and it is time to do so to criminalise and prosecute any form of hate speech, offline and online. There is a lot of consensus, but not everyone is equally clear. Colleague De Roover was a bit irritated, but it is quite right that colleagues referred to the track record of the N-VA when it comes to Donald Trump. Colleague Francken said that Trump was sublime in his simplicity and that he does politics in a smart way. The former President of the Chamber said it's a good thing that Trump has a good run-up to the system. So not everyone is equally clear. Colleagues, attacking journalists is not a foreign phenomenon. Questioning the legitimacy of an elected government is not a foreign phenomenon. Let us make sure that we all together are much stronger and much... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, you have rightly referred to Merkel: when words go the wrong way, actions quickly go the wrong way and violence is not far away. We must avoid that. Democracy really needs to be protected and updated in the digital age. Citizens must be protected, without manipulative messages that they see coming at them permanently. You said that this is an assignment under the coalition agreement. Whether through civil society or through research institutions, the government must make a start on this. The European Commission did so in 2018, when it developed a code of conduct for social media and Internet platforms. That is absolutely necessary if we are to avoid such a disgrace in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u20	(Mr de Roover sighs deeply in the micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u21	As an opposition, I have one minute to reply to your 10 minutes statement. That is Belgian democracy. That's a first laughable fact. The weapons are being distributed unevenly here. You are also right to point out that words can affect people. You have made a correct remark to your address as a kindergarten talk at the installation of this government. You've probably regretted that, too. You made a manifest error there. You are almost as stubborn as Mr Trump when you shake your head now. You then spread fake news. Of course, you are threatening to delete your own words. We get the classic green venom from on the other side, which simultaneously blows up bridges and only seeks polarization. Prime Minister, at first I was a little reassured. You brought up your fight against fake news as a liberal, and you ended up on a particularly dangerous edge. You as a government will determine what is wrong and correct news. If you go down that road, you will end up not as the most green prime minister in history, but as the least liberal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u22	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm still considering foreign affairs. Many countries cause us concern in terms of democratic attitude, such as China. I would also like to highlight the role your government could play in this. As a very concrete example, I am setting what China is doing in Hong Kong at the moment. The last shred of democracy in Hong Kong is today being forced out by the actions of the Chinese government. However, the European Union is considering concluding an investment agreement with China. At such moments, we must be much more attentive to ascertain whether the issue of human rights is really being addressed wherever and wherever it can be. Mr De Roover, someone said that he disgusted your opinion, but that he would give his life so that you could express her. Freedom of speech is absolutely a sacred principle to me. However, Parliament must look at inciting violence, inciting crimes by systematically spreading whole lies and half-truths through all kinds of possible channels. This is a thorny issue that needs to be addressed in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal. The government can take the initiative, but it would be a credit to the Chamber if we could make that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, I have been urging the nine Ministers of Health for several days now to speed up vaccination. It's indispensable and it's possible. Indispensable, first, to save lives. There are still 500 deaths per week. Indispensable to avoid seriously affected patients, to also get out of the marasm all those who are affected with full socio-economic vigour. Indispensable to allow, in addition to the vaccination of residents and staff of nursing homes, the vaccination of caregivers who are at high risk of contamination and who must be protected in order to be able, tomorrow, to take care of and care for patients. Belgium's slow pace with respect to other countries, even European ones, is challenging. It is not a question of organising a competition from the Eurovision of the vaccine. But our country is showing unacceptable impreparation while every day counts. Accelerated vaccination is possible by administering the vaccines as and when they are administered. If I'm in favour of storage to secure the second dose, storing tens of thousands of vaccines in freezers is nonsense. As a reminder, 700 out of 10,000 doses were administered last week and 22,000 out of 83,000 doses were administered this week. Prime Minister, was the decision to administer next week the 60,000 doses now stored in freezers and to carry out a vaccination as it was made? What matters now is that the greatest number of people are immunized, either by natural antibodies or by antibodies induced by vaccination. In November, we knew that one in ten to one in four people already had antibodies. This number is probably much higher at the present time. I therefore propose to look at the path to vaccination of people with no antibodies. This would allow for faster protection of more people, faster attainment of collective immunity, and thus disenfranchisement. It is true that this would require a little more logistics, but Belgium is in a position to do so. Finally, the question arises of ordering new vaccines from among the available vaccines. We have no choice but to start a real race against time with efficiency and agility. We're already late. It's urgent to get there!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u24	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, we have begun this new year with the hope of finally ending this crisis. This hope is allowed and nurtured by the vaccine. This hope cannot be disappointed by another failure in our crisis management, especially after the many failures we have experienced with protective equipment, testing and tracing. Mr Minister, on Tuesday you announced the acceleration of our vaccination campaign, the details of which we will know tomorrow in the Health Committee. What we know today is that Pfizer guarantees the proper delivery of our orders, in any case until the end of February. What we also know is that healthcare staff could be vaccinated earlier in February. It is, of course, a good thing, although, in my view, it deserved to be able to be vaccinated at the same time as the staff and residents of the nursing homes. If we want to protect our health care system, care covid as well as non-covid, of course we must protect the most vulnerable, but we must also protect those who care for it, as well as those who will have to vaccinate us. For the rest, it is true that we depend on constraints that force us to make choices. Nevertheless, I think you need to go beyond an attentist posture and show proactivity. First, in terms of logistics. We were reassured by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products for syringes or needles. But what about today's bottles, freezers, dry ice? Why are vaccination centres now created at the dropper? What about people who cannot travel to get vaccinated? Will home-based nurses be supported in their missions? I also think that you will have to have the courage to tell the 560,000 caregivers in our country that not all of them can be vaccinated at the same time, and that this will require priority among them. The same applies to so-called socially and economically essential functions, such as teachers. Finally, I think that you should commit yourself to calling on the European Union to speed up the authorisations of vaccines that have not yet been approved and the supply of vaccines that have already been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u25	Minister, who will be vaccinated? When will who be vaccinated? Where will the syringe be placed? Who's gonna put the syringe? There is no clear answer to these four specific questions today. But you made a promise. On 22 November, you stated in regard to the bet that if the vaccines were to come, vaccination would run smoothly. Today's the day and it's running square. It's always the same in our country. Under Mrs De Block there was great misery with the masks; under Mr De Backer it was with the tests and today it is with you the case with the vaccinations. It's improvisation. How come we are always too late, Minister? How come there's always pressure, pressure from the bottom, pressure from you, so there's finally progress? Today we are faced with a more fundamental problem. How is it that in our country there is no structure for prevention? I hear the members of the N-VA complain in committee. They fall out of the sky because there are problems with prevention. But how many years have they been in the Flemish government? They always want to save and today we have no structure capable of carrying out such a large vaccination campaign properly. There is another problem, our incredible institutional mess. Is there one plan now or are there four different plans in the different governments? Does everyone have to call Pfizer to try to get some extra doses? What are the tasks assigned to the general practitioners? They already have enough work to do and yet today I read that they are expected to carry out the vaccinations. What's the plan? Who will be vaccinated where, when and by whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u26	Minister, the vaccine today is a matter of freedom, freedom to choose for some not to be vaccinated. There, we must continue to inform, to explain, to try to convince, because for us, to be vaccinated, is to regain these freedoms and return to a much more normal life. Fortunately, many people seem to want to be vaccinated as quickly as possible and there, you will agree, we must not miss out. After a testing phase carried out at the end of December, the vaccination campaign officially started on 5 January in nursing homes and this, let us admit, in a very minor way in view of what is happening elsewhere in Europe, because you have preferred caution, you say. Mr Minister, from the outset, we knew that our ability to adapt would be indispensable, due to the approval of vaccines at European level, but also to the production capacity of pharmaceutical companies. Today we have vaccine security. The doses of Pfizer to be delivered are confirmed and Moderna vaccine has just been approved by the European Medicines Agency. The stocks made up to ensure the second dose at nursing homes are therefore probably no longer useful. Minister, today our ability to adapt must be synonymous with acceleration. Do you confirm that you want to go in this direction as announced in committee this Tuesday? How will you ensure this acceleration to allow as many people as possible to be vaccinated as quickly and securely as possible? When can front-line caregivers finally be vaccinated, knowing the fundamental role they still have to play in this crisis? Finally, what are the following sequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u27	Prime Minister, here is a table showing a comparison of the number of vaccinees compared to the number of residents in dozens of other countries. I will spare you the painful figures, but it is clear that Belgium is dangling at the bottom. You will undoubtedly condone that, because the government is already in a hurrah mood, when there is finally a pandemic law after 11 months, but you cannot deny that vaccinations are going very slowly. Two days ago, on the radio, I heard someone from the task force say "vaccinations" that people are now looking for locations. Only now. Better preparations had been made to prepare the team of sprayers instead of making poster campaigns about 11 million Belgians. The statements made by your ministers, Prime Minister, only make it worse. Minister Verlinden referred to wrong figures from abroad. Minister Vandenbroucke asked for an understanding of the slow vaccinations in the words: "We are careful and that is smart." His purchasing policy and the lack of preparation do not seem to me to be smart at all, quite the contrary. Your Deputy Prime Minister Petra De Sutter is all about the crown. Following the example of Flemish Minister Beke, who already pointed out that in Germany people were wrongly vaccinated and therefore ended up in hospital, your Deputy Prime Minister raised doubts about the quality of vaccines abroad. She stated: "Not only the United Kingdom and Israel, Russia and China also vaccinate people with vaccines that do not have the same standard as those we use." Prime Minister, your Deputy Prime Minister is insinuating that Israel and the United Kingdom are working with inferior vaccines, whereas they are exactly the same Pfizer vaccines from Puurs. Such communication undermines confidence in vaccines. There's been a diplomatic incident for less. Will you excuse the countries concerned? We're on a lousy 87,500 vaccines a week now. Why so little? Will that pace be increased? If not, we will be working in two years' time. What's the plan? The citizens are entitled to an exact timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u28	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health, this week we will most likely exceed the threshold of 20,000 deaths of coronavirus in our country since the beginning of the crisis. Fortunately, as you pointed out, the Belgians' efforts are now leading to an improvement in the situation in our country. The vaccination strategy was finalized on December 3, that is, a month ago – last year, that is, an eternity when we consider the evolution of the pandemic and the emergence of new phenomena. This strategy must therefore evolve at the same pace as the situation. Not to see her again would be contrary to the critical and scientific mind. The worst would be to lock in pre-established patterns, without taking into account the evolution of parameters. The strategy must therefore be continuously evaluated and reviewed and corrected, if necessary, in the light of the changing health context, the availability of vaccines or the latest scientific studies. In this vaccination campaign, we have to work with a tight flow. Each available dose should be used immediately: one dose of vaccine = one person vaccinated. Storage vaccines in a refrigerator will never save lives. Therefore, I welcome the acceleration of the government's vaccination campaign. Having said that, I draw your attention to the need to preserve our first line and the line of care. Our caregivers must, in fact, focus on any possible deterioration of the situation. We see what is happening in the UK: virus mutations are possible. We must arm our caregivers so that they can face a possible deterioration of the situation. For all these reasons, I urge that caregivers be considered a priority public for this vaccination campaign. I would add that there is an urgent need to inform general practitioners and local authorities of the continuation of the vaccination campaign. There is considerable demand for this. I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u29	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you, firstly, a steel health in 2021 and, above all, a great deal of freedom. However, I fear that we will not get our freedom back too soon. Our barf's been on fire for a while. We are still looking for water and the places where we will use our pumpers. The corona virus still kills 56 people a day. To our great regret, I still have to say that we are world champions in the number of deaths, regardless of how they are counted, over-death or not. We're at the beginning of the year. They'll talk about annual reviews. I've been looking at how it happened. We've been working for about 11 months. When I look at the blunderbook about burning 35 million masks, about us having to work with the sewing machine to choke on our own masks, about fraudulent procurement, about the Avrox fraud, about wrong labels in tests, about failing contact tracing and non-existent source tracing... We've been tasking our catering people with that tracing, but it hasn't worked. There was also the barometer, which was probably forgotten. Where's the app? Probably forgot. We kept Jos waiting 14 more days, until Josepha was ready, and Lucy too, to give them a shot. In this country of waffle iron policy between Vlaming and Waal a few more people can die. Minister, I will not talk about the moral, ethical and difficult discussion about who needs to be vaccinated first. After all, half of our victims have fallen among the 85-plussers. However, I would first give the hairdressers a shot, so that they can work instead of giving it to people of 102 years old. However, that is a dangerous proposition. Mr Minister, I will move on to my question very quickly. I'll make you a proposal. Mr. Secretary, you know I'm mayor. I would ask you to have the organization of the vaccinations done by local authority. After all, they know what everything is like.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u30	Prime Minister, Minister, a month ago we also had a debate here on the feasibility of the starting date of the vaccination plan. There was a lot of criticism about that. The question was whether that date was realistic. Today's debate is about the slowness or the caution of the vaccination plan. We've been through a lot of stages. The healthcare sector is very well aware of what is expected of them. In the meantime, the vaccine can be transported in a proper way, in the way it should, at the right temperature. We have ensured that our citizens are informed and have been given courage. Today, questions arise again about how fast or how slow we are and whether we are as fast as the neighbouring countries. I do not know whether this debate is appropriate here today. After all, we are all aware that we have to give two injections within the four-week period. I think it is good that the ministers and the government are careful if they are not sure that the second injection can be given in good time. I therefore call for caution. Otherwise, this could lead to a failing policy. If that is the reason for caution, then I support the ministers. We need two things to make the strategy work: achieving a 70% vaccination rate and ensuring that we can give two injections within four weeks. I have two very specific questions. Can you explain to us again why we are being cautious so that our citizens are informed and there are no additional concerns in the coming weeks? I also have a question about the Moderna vaccine. We got a lot of information about the Pfizer vaccine. The Moderna vaccine has also been approved. How many vaccines will our country receive and when will they be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u31	Prime Minister, thanks to the commitment of the entire Belgian population, including during the holidays, our country is among the best in Europe, according to the latest figures. We can be proud of that, because it used to be different. Because people kept to the rules, there was no peak after the holidays for the time being. Our citizens, businesses and entrepreneurs have been making huge efforts for months now. Of course, that weighs on all of us. There is hope now, thanks to the vaccines, but unfortunately we will still have to work and bite through for a while. This is not easy for anyone, but I would like to draw your particular attention to our self-employed and entrepreneurs. After all, many of them are still not allowed to work today and face loss of income. We support them with many measures, but they certainly do not solve all the problems. Hairdressers, beauty specialists, sauna operators and driving schools are desperate, because the water is on their lips. Let's certainly not forget the catering industry. Tomorrow, the Consultative Committee will meet again and the current situation will be evaluated. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to look at how we can offer these people perspective without giving them false hope. From personal experience, I can tell you that a lot of people are losing heart. They tell their stories with tears in their eyes. What light at the end of the tunnel would be welcome, so that they can look forward to what they are doing best, namely doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, at the end of last year Der Spiegel published a disturbing piece in which a questionable and rather unwelcome practice was revealed. According to sources close to the negotiations, the German company BioNTech would have offered 500 million doses of its vaccine to the EU. In my opinion, any well-thinking person would be quite enthusiastic about this, because every vaccine means a step closer to a corona-free European Union, but of course that was not worth the French. Our southern neighbors seem to have put pressure on them not to order too much from the naughty Germans of BioNTech, so only 300 million instead of 500 million vaccines have been ordered. What's the reason for that? That reason does not appear to be of a medical nature, but it appears to be much simpler than what we can all imagine. That is the reason for the French state's interest. It seems necessary to ensure that, at a later stage, sufficient vaccines can still be ordered from the French company Sanofi. Prime Minister, I have the following questions. Does our country belong to those countries that have applied pressure with France to order fewer vaccines from BioNTech? How many more vaccines would our country have received if we had ordered 500 million vaccines from BioNTech? How many doses of the vaccine from the French company will our country receive? What influence has this stinking jar had on the vaccination strategy? By the way, is he on the verge of it? After all, I read everywhere that the order of vaccination is now being called into question. Do you agree with your Minister of Justice, who states that prisoners should be given a priority place in that order of vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u33	Madam President, Ministers, the Pfizer vaccine, developed in Germany, produced in Belgium, is made in Europe, yet Europe has to watch how more than a million people have been vaccinated in the United Kingdom and in Israel. After the test run, we will now finally start. Minister, together with the people, I note that you did not make your bet. I am glad that you are here today so that we can debate. On Tuesday 5 January you were not prepared to answer our questions in the Committee on Health. However, you had announced in the media that you would be allowed to be shot at if the vaccination campaign did not run at full speed by 5 January. You did bring a little bit of news, because you were going to fuel the campaign. However, I still have a few questions. Why is it so slow? As an excuse, I hear that other countries are gambling, but I find that a little faint. Every week we lose, we also lose lives, and it also means a blow to our economy that is already struggling. What about the European tender? Can you still assure us today that the supply of vaccines will be proportional in quantity and time? I note that other European Member States are moving a lot faster in vaccination. Germany could have ordered 30 million extra Pfizer vaccines, as confirmed by the European Commission spokesman. Is that right? Have you, like Germany, taken the initiative to bring more Pfizer vaccines to our country, and also faster?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u34	Given the importance of the subject and the number of speakers, I propose that you allow 15 minutes of response time to be allocated between the two ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u35	I will answer these questions together with the Minister of Health. This is a time when we usually wish each other good health. The past year has shown us the value of that wish that was perhaps said earlier as something banal. That brings me to the value of the vaccines that allow us to turn the very difficult page of the previous year. The vaccines give us a perspective. We know that two have already been approved and two are in the pipeline. Maybe there'll be others. The watchword we've always given is that we should administer the vaccines as soon as they were available. Vaccines are not there to be stored in refrigerators. Vaccines are there to protect the population. A great deal of attention has indeed been paid to precaution. The inter-federal task force, including all the governments involved in this vaccination campaign, opted for an approach that, at first, was a conscientious approach and I think it is defensible. The companies responsible for the vaccine development process have made every effort to ensure that vaccines are safe vaccines. They have done everything possible to ensure that these vaccines do not endanger our health. It therefore seems to me quite logical that at the last link in this chain, which is the administration of these vaccines, 100 % secure procedures are followed. It makes sense to me that, at first, we are following a rather conscientious approach. However, I want to be very clear: the precaution does not prevent speed. After a period of caution, we now need to move faster. The Minister of Health and I have been very clear over the last few days. We are now at a stage where more vaccines need to be administered and I stress that this is done in collaboration with other governments. It is a shared competence and it must be respected that all governments work together. Now, the approach used is indeed more entrepreneurial and makes every effort to ensure that each vaccine in the refrigerators is administered as quickly as possible. As soon as we are sure that the procedures are well stabilized, we must do everything possible to speed things up. Many asked here about the route we will follow. However, it is very dangerous to put figures on that. The task force's planning, along with the broad political spectrum of the health ministers of the various governments, states that it is the ambition to vaccinate at least 4 million inhabitants by June. It is about the elderly, health workers and people with an underlying condition. That percentage of 70%, which was talked about so much, must be achieved during the summer. That is what will be done on the basis of the current schedule and the current pace of subcontracting. It is a common objective, both for federal and regional governments, as well as for cities and municipalities, which have a very important role to play. For example, it is also an objective for the local first-line zones. It will be a collective effort, just as it was the case with the restraining of the first and second wave. The different governments have found each other for this collective effort, because they understood that we can do an incredible amount of business if we work together. Let me be clear, if there is additional production and if it leads to more doses being delivered more quickly to our country, at European level, then we will be ready. We have explicitly asked the task force to have a plan ready that takes into account the faster delivery of a larger quantity of vaccines. It is now too early to anticipate this, but if more doses are available more quickly, we will be able to bring them to the population. Mrs Verhaert, you asked what perspective we could offer economic operators. That is a very important point, because large parts of our economy are still forced to close. This applies to the non-medical contact professions, the catering industry and a very large part of the event sector. A lot of support measures have been taken, but we understand that they are not the solution to the urge of those entrepreneurs to take up their activities. For many, that is their life's work. They therefore want to be able to be economically active again and not forced to stop. Epidemiologically, we are in a rather special situation: compared to the rest of Europe, we are an island today, because few countries are as good at it as we are at it. That is the result of an unexpected effort. The way in which the vast majority of the population have kept to what we have asked for over the past few weeks was unexpected; we never thought that they would succeed. There are risks lurking. There is the British variant, which has a much higher level of contamination and can circulate much faster. People returned from abroad. There is the influence of the reopening in the new year. So I would ask you to be careful and to keep following the situation day by day. Let it be clear, as soon as it is epidemiologically possible and as soon as it is clear under what conditions it is possible, we must give these sectors the opportunity to be economically active again. We have always tried to maintain the balance between health and economic activity. If we want the vaccination campaign to be a success, we must ensure that the situation is safe, but also that economic activity can be restarted. The way in which we have dealt with the second wave in recent weeks must be a precursor to the way in which we allow economic activity and steer the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has already set out many important principles of principle, so I will inevitably repeat myself. I would like to begin by reiterating what Mr Bacquelaine said. Such a campaign must be based on clear principles and clear, well-thought-out priorities. On the other hand, the concrete course of the campaign will inevitably require constant review. This will be done on the basis of the evolution of deliveries, and hence of production capacity, marketing authorisations, as well as on the basis of the evolution of our knowledge in the field of the sustainable impact of the various vaccines. This impact is different from one vaccine to another. From the beginning, I asked, together with my fellow regional health ministers, that the task force should act in a thoughtful but also flexible way. This has created some uncertainty in the head of public opinion. It wants to see clear in the course of the campaign, by the end of the year, in all its practical aspects, its timing, its organisation. It's extremely difficult at this point. Nevertheless, some things are becoming clearer and clearer. That is why we have asked the task force to optimize its campaign forecasts on the basis of what we know today. Mrs Depoorter, I did indeed disappoint you a little in committee, because I did not address the sudden question asked there to have a topical debate on vaccination. That was not on the agenda, but I also had another reason, namely that we asked the task force to propose an optimised plan of action by tomorrow on the basis of what we know today about the vaccines available and their effect. I therefore hope that tomorrow, because of the task force, we will have a sound presentation in the Committee on Health which, despite a number of permanent uncertainties, is, as far as possible, concrete about what we can expect. I would also like to repeat what was said at the beginning of this week. Until recently, we were still quite uncertain about the concrete delivery rhythm of Pfizer/BioNTech's vaccine. We were not uncertain about the contract on which we had signed up, namely in a first disc a participation of more than 5 million doses................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So that was still uncertain. We were very happy that Pfizer was able to make a symbolic delivery in December, a first delivery at the end of December and now a second weekly delivery. Last Tuesday Pfizer clearly confirmed that we are at a weekly delivery rate of 87,900 doses, which is our share in the first European tranche. It is that relative certainty that allows the task force to further optimize planning. Minister Beke has already explained this in the Flemish Parliament. It is therefore not easy for us to debate this in different parliaments, because it is a very close cooperation between different governments. In fact, we have managed to roll out the campaign through the task force. It is, of course, true that I am also asking for an understanding of the fact that the last kilometres at the time of the distribution of the vaccine to the people who are being vaccinated are the competence of the Communities and the Regions. They are also doing very well and cooperation is going well. Many of the specific questions referred to, for example, by Mr Dedecker, such as the role of the mayor versus the role of other bodies, are discussed in the interfederal task force, but, of course, the approach is mainly from the Communities and the regions. That is quite right and we want to respect it. I am sure you heard yesterday and the day before yesterday that this was a debate in the Flemish Parliament on Flanders, that Minister Maron made announcements on Brussels and so on. The cooperation is going well, but it is, of course, complex. Based on the uncertainties and certainties that exist today, we have requested an optimised plan of action from the Task Force. That's what we expect tomorrow. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in my view, the proposal made by the Task Force to the Interdepartmental Conference on the selection of priority target groups is entirely appropriate and justified and that the Conference has taken the right decision. Let me, once again, summarize. It was indeed chosen to give priority first of all to the residents of our residential care centres. That choice is up to and including justified. I have all kinds of critical reservations about this in the media, which is normal. These critical reservations about this priority are really unconvincing. Why is there a priority for the people living in residential care centres? Unfortunately, there are very easily outbreaks with many infected people there. These people are at an age when they can become seriously ill and unfortunately die. This leads to enormous pressure, nuisance and misery in the residential care centers, including for the staff and the other residents. Moreover, this leads to enormous pressure on our hospitals. This is important for everyone, including young people, including those who should not be afraid of COOVID-19. We need to safeguard the capacity of our hospitals. We may differ from the Netherlands, which makes other choices, including in the area of vaccination. Given the phase in which the pandemic is in Belgium, it is really a logical choice to try to safeguard hospital capacity and relieve hospital staff from this stress and this constant care in overcrowded hospitals. This can be done by vaccinating the people in the residential care centres as a matter of priority. For the sake of clarity, there is also a logistical argument. The first roll-out can be quite logical in the direction of the residential care centers, from the hospitals where the Pfizer vaccine is kept at................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There is also an argument that is related to the nature of the vaccine. Pfizer protects against getting sick. With all due respect to experts who claim otherwise in the media, but we do not know with certainty whether the Pfizer vaccine protects against infection and transmits contamination. We don't know for sure. We know for sure that it protects against disease. That is a very important reason to say that we want to protect the residents of the rest homes and the residential care centres from illness and death, and that on a large scale. If we are to be able to bring logistics to the staff of these housing centres, then that is what we must do. That decision has now been taken in Flanders, as it has already been made in Wallonia and Brussels. That'll cover the staff. First the care staff, the general practitioners in the first line, the care staff in the hospitals and then other groups are discussed, but I will not repeat that. Colleagues, the details of this alignment of the priority groups are indeed still the subject of discussion. This raises the question of what are the most essential professions and whether the teaching staff are included. I am not ashamed to admit that this is still the subject of debate and that there is also a growing awareness of it. I know that this creates uncertainty for many people, but we experience science just in time, we experience that insights come in and must be immediately turned into action and that requires driving and seeing every day, or as Mr Bacquelaine said: 'Un déroulement qui inévitablement doit être revu en permanence'. The basic principles must be ready. I would like to repeat what the Prime Minister said. A basic principle at start-up was caution. And when that is done, the following basic principle is: optimize what is available, and use it as best you can to achieve the effect that is sought as quickly as possible. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that, of course, there are ethical arguments here. I've been talking about safeguarding hospital capacity. I have provided logistical arguments as to why we are aiming for residential care centres. But there is also an ethical argument. The most vulnerable people are there. Mr Dedecker, it is not because someone is 95 years old, compared to someone aged 65 or 45, that the vulnerability counts less. That's where the most vulnerable people are. Also because they live there together. An ethical choice has therefore been made, in addition to all the other arguments, why we use this priority. And that choice indeed determines a certain rhythm and a certain super-precaution in the rollout. I did ask for an understanding of that, that is right, because I work well with my colleagues in that caution. Alexander De Croo and I have also said: now that we can do that, we want to optimise and move forward as quickly as we can. Finally, there was a practical question about Moderna. You read the news. We get the messages from the European Medicines Agency. Our entry on the first disc of Moderna is about 2 million doses. They don't come as fast as Pfizer's. I am not going to venture into figures now, because they are not 100% sure either, but they are coming a lot more slowly. Pfizer is really at the forefront of the delivery schedules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u37	Prime Minister, Minister, you are trying to show your slowness as caution. Frankly, it's not credible. You lack efficiency and agility. You recognize the need to speed up. I've heard a lot of words. But we need action. Will the 60,000 doses blocked today in the freezers be administered this week, yes or no? Your non-response says a lot. You don't find it useful to look at the path of immunizing people without antibodies first, while it would allow for much faster collective immunity, and thus to deconfine much more quickly. You know, it is not because a proposal has been made since the opposition that it is void. Let me tell you! Finally, with regard to caregivers, I understand that some of the parties of the majority, which are part of the governments that have decided not to vaccinate caregivers, would now agree to start immunizing at-risk caregivers. I hope it's not wind, it's not just words. The experts who wrote this white card made it clear. I am therefore waiting for you tomorrow, Mr Minister, with, I hope, a quantified, precise, ambitious, clear, logistical, operational plan, but also with the reintegration of at-risk caregivers in the priority order of vaccinations, in addition to nursing and nursing homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u38	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. The aim of my inquiry was precisely to make proposals to you rather than waiting to be put before the fait accompli and thus to have to applaud or not the choices which will be endorsed, this evening, by the vaccination task force. We have become accustomed to having a parliamentary debate on the choices made by the Consultation Committee. I believe that the same should be true of the choices endorsed by the vaccination task force, especially at a time when the population needs information and transparency about the vaccine in order to decide whether or not to join it. I hope that you will therefore take into account, tomorrow or at least this evening, our proposals, in particular on a stage which is so crucial to the resumption of our economic and social life. I also hope – and this has not been mentioned when it seems fundamental to me – that you will ensure vaccination justice by condemning attempts by some to obtain more vaccines than others in the European Union as well as in our own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u39	Madam President, Minister, you have talked a lot about security, and that is why you wanted to be careful. However, why are the vaccines, once they are all in the freezer, not injected as soon as possible? Why, for example, is this slower in Flanders than in Wallonia? As Marc Noppen pointed out, the inoculations are not rocket science. Once the vaccines are there, can't they be injected faster? Nor am I reassured by your reply which remains very vague. There are, of course, parameters that we do not understand. However, why do we not know today whether there will be 60 or 120 vaccination centres in Flanders? How come everything hasn't cleared out yet? Will the general practitioners have to solve it again because it has not yet been arranged? It is true that, for deliveries, we depend on the firms. We have signed a contract under which we have already paid in advance for the search and the orders. On the other hand, deliveries were not detailed. However, it seems to me that, as soon as all the invoices have been honoured, a clear agreement with the pharmaceutical groups is indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. This vaccination campaign must be a collective success. Some, such as the organizers of music festivals, offer to help you build vaccination villages. You have to press the accelerator. The choice to vaccinate residents of nursing homes is fair, but it is imperative to be able, as quickly as possible, to vaccinate all front-line caregivers. Indeed, if there is a third wave, it will again be these men and women who will be at the front. It is imperative to be able to quickly vaccinate people whose health is fragile, but also imperative to give hope to young people who, today, do not know whether they too can be vaccinated. The freedom of all is fundamental. If we know that the barrier gestures will still have to accompany us for several months, we know that at the end of the tunnel there is vaccination. Finally, we can kiss, laugh, go to a show, meet us, with our loved ones, around a table, and enjoy our restored freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u41	Prime Minister, I have asked you about the lies that one of your Deputy Prime Ministers tells about vaccinations in other countries. I didn't get an answer to that. You seem to allow people to tell falsehoods about that. It would be better to learn from this rather than insult countries like Israel, because at the rate of today in this country we will achieve group immunity by infection rather than by vaccination. You also say that there are few countries that are as good as Belgium. If Belgium had done as well as Italy, the USA or the Netherlands, we would have had 5,350, 7,400 or even 11,850 fewer COOVID-19 deaths in this country. Your government is failing in its approach to this corona crisis. We don't have any strategic stocks. We have no enforcement policy. We don't have any data. We still have bad communication. We still don't have a vaccination policy that's about to happen. All we have is our so-called 11 million-dollar squad in larger cabinets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u42	Prime Minister, Minister of Health, I agree with you; the vaccination of seniors in nursing homes preserves the capacity of our hospital system. But to preserve the operational capacity of our hospital system, we also need to vaccinate the healthcare staff as quickly as possible. On an ethical level, these individuals and their families are permanently at risk of infection. For utilitarian reasons too, they must be vaccinated in order for our hospital system to be able to provide front-line fighters in the fight against a possible additional phase of infection. As regards the need to inform and involve local authorities, mayors and general practitioners, there is also an urgent need. In fact, generalists are constantly subject to many questions from their patients. They must be able to give precise answers that are uniform, and not contradictory. It is therefore really important that this information be able to percolate more. I therefore ask that general practitioners be represented in the vaccination task force. They're not here yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u43	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, I have listened with pleasure to your good news show, but it does not alter the fact that we are class schlemiel. When it comes to vaccinations, we are completely behind in Europe, compared to many other countries. You said something beautiful about science just in time. In such situations there must also be solutions just in time. The municipalities have a lot of experience. We have been obliged to set up switching centres. We have been obliged to set up triage centres. They've all worked beautifully. In my own municipality, 800 inhabitants were vaccinated against the flu in one day. I hear very often that the task force is looking for solutions on how to do it outside the residential care centres and hospitals. That is why I propose the following. Call on the municipalities to be able to vaccinate quickly and catch up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister and Minister, for your answers. I believe that a message has been given today, which gives a great deal of clarity to the citizens. Mr Minister, I have heard you clearly explain that the vaccine fights the symptoms, but not necessarily the virus itself. A reduction in the number of infections is therefore not guaranteed. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this, and I therefore believe that this message should and should be communicated openly, for which I thank you. I am also very pleased that you have more clarity about delivery times today. That offers perspective and hope. I wish you both every success in the further fight against the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u45	Thank you, Ministers, for your answers. Hairdressers, beauty specialists and driving instructors really crave to be able to start over. You cited the reopening of the stores on December 1st. Let that be an example, so that these people can start up again safely. I realise, of course, that we still have to be careful, but let's give them another perspective, let's give them their light at the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u46	Prime Minister, the EU denies, France denies and, to be honest, you have not answered my questions. I have the impression that a lot of politicians are coming from Catalonia on this continent, especially from Barcelona. "They all know nothing," would say Manuel from the famous series Fawlty Towers. This matter is just another example of how the EU can sometimes be a big Belgium and how the solidarity that is being preached to certain countries is only counted when it comes out, when it is in their favor. Prime Minister, public health, the health of our people, is above French economic interests. I hope you will speak with your French colleague on this matter. Let us be honest: if vaccines were to refuse in the midst of a health crisis, that would be neither more nor less than just criminal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u47	Mr. Secretary, you're getting rid of it quite easily. You announce a bet with a lot of tamtam and say that you take responsibility and that we may address you on it. If the vaccines are too late, then it is Europe. You clearly didn't include a time clause in your contracts. If the vaccines are put too late, they are the regions. Then what did you vouch for? For that first shot of Jos? Is that it? Minister, you are referring to the difficult state structure of our country. I absolutely agree with that. This country doesn't work anymore. But what I find really distressing is that you have not taken any steps to bring more Pfizer vaccines to our country and to bring them faster. Perhaps with those extra vaccines you could have inoculated our caregivers so that they would at least have immunity and would be ready to take care of our patients if that third wave were to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u48	Madam President, Minister, as you may have learned, as a good-year gift, many banks have had the rich idea of increasing their rates. At KBC, the price of an account that affects 80% of customers will increase by 30%. At ING, we're going to charge a percentage of the fees for the withdrawal of money from the savings account. At BNP, the price of transactions refused for insufficient balance will rise to more than seven euros. These are just a few examples as a welcome gift from banks among a multitude of news, at the beginning of the year. Mr Minister, first of all I would like to wish you a great deal of progress in the area of consumer protection for 2021. I would also like to say that these increases are shameful. We must put an end to the cynicism of some banks when they have a monopoly on savings. There are 22 billion savings in 2020, 6.2 billion net tax profits in 2018. Banks are today asking Mr. and Mrs. All-World to pay more to use their own money. Mr and Mrs Tout-le-Monde will pay more, and it is in particular those who struggle to follow the digital train that are penalized: the cost of printing the extracts of account, the cost of manual transactions such as paper transfer. By increasing the price of refused transactions, we are particularly attacking those who have the least money on their account at the end of the month. In my view, we must call the sector to order. We know all the advantages of digitalization, and making people's lives easier is obviously not a problem. But in this country, we still respect the freedom of everyone to pay as he wishes and above all as he can. Minister, what are you going to do to stop the increase in bank charges?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost, I wish you all the best of health, happiness and success. Mr Lacroix, thank you for your question. As you know, I share with you the constant concern to ensure that all in this country have access, at an affordable cost, to basic banking services that are necessary for the entire population in daily life. Like you, I am concerned by the steady, even constant, increases in the rates charged by banks on these essential basic banking services, at the same time, as you mentioned, with the increasing digitisation of the various transactions and banking services. This may not be a problem or a question first in a context where the financial situation of these institutions would be undermined. This is not the case today. This may also not ask too many questions if each has a free choice over these two branches of the alternative: either continue to ask its banking agency for a whole range of services, or use digital technologies - via applications or via internet platforms. But, as you mentioned, today not everyone in this country has the opportunity to make this choice in a free and enlightened manner. This increase in bank charges is always in parallel with too much digital divide. We must therefore ensure that all have access to basic banking services at affordable prices. You know that's one of my concerns. This is one of my priorities for 2021, which is why, on Monday, I will have a meeting with representatives of the sector – Febelfin – precisely to address these issues of a universal banking service. I think we need to put the 2004 gentlemen's agreement back on the table, which, as you know, guarantees certain bank withdrawals free of charge. It must be put back on the table, especially in view of the increasing digitalisation of these services. It's necessary, but it won't be enough. We must go further and ensure that we can renegotiate, beyond the gentleman's agreement, other basic banking services free of charge for the whole population, and especially for those who need them most and who are now away from digital technologies that avoid a series of costs. This is essential in the context we know today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, as you said, we must call the sector to order. We cannot have butter and butter money: 22 billion more saved this year are in the hands of the banks, and we would still like to make the citizen who withdraws his own money pay. We would like to punish older people who are not comfortable with banking applications. One would like to force people to use electronic payment, while many households prefer cash, because by paying in cash, one better measures one's spending. They are not dematerialized. The banks, Minister, have a social and societal role to play. I'm quite on the same wavelength as you. We need a new gentleman's agreement that will take account of the digitalisation of the banking world. I'm counting on you. Consumers – who are with us and who are certainly listening to us today – are with you in this fight that will not be easy, but that you will lead with determination and courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every year there are more than 600 deaths and tens of thousands injured on our roads. We know that in one third of fatal accidents excessive speed is an important factor. So we have to do something about that. We can do the same with route checks. We have a number of years of experience in this area. What do we see? On roads where we monitor the speed of vehicles over a longer journey, which is also done by a route control, the number of fatal accidents halves. This is a huge success, at least if the route checks work. Where are we today? Soon we will have 300 route checks on the roads of the Flemish Region, of which 200 will not work, because the back office, which is the processing of the data and the software, is not ready. Madam Minister, your predecessor promised in 2016 that if the Regions were to invest in the cameras, he would ensure a smooth processing of the data, i.e. back office. We are today 2021. It still doesn't work. We have heard a lot of excuses. It is the software; there is not enough staff; there is a waiting for a ministerial directive; the police are ready but Justice is not. I'm not standing here to pass the blackbird on to you or anyone else. I want the trajectories to work. I was therefore very happy when I read your tweet yesterday, in which you wrote that you, together with your Flemish colleague of Mobility, "want to use maximum traffic checks for the sake of road safety." That's exactly the same promise your predecessor made four years ago. I'm totally behind it. Madam Secretary, what will you do to ensure that all route checks will work? By when can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u52	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, I share your concern about road safety, because road safety is incredibly important and I have included it as an absolute priority in the policy statement. Trajectory checks are part of ensuring road safety, but that is not the only thing, of course, because there are other controls. However, I will certainly put my shoulders on the entry into force of the route checks. As you know, its implementation is a shared responsibility and a shared task. Together with my colleagues from the Regions, I have to work on this. I do have some good news. The full ANPR network has been operational since 3 November 2020. So these cameras can be used. Work has continued since then. As you said, some ANPR routes have already been activated and operational. The route checks are now being phased out. To this end, the federal police cooperates with the Regions, with the police areas concerned, with the Justice Department and with the prosecutors. The actual realization involves a number of aspects. A calibration is needed, which must be repeated from time to time. Protocol agreements should be concluded, including with the police areas where the end-points of those trajectories are located. All conditions must be met to ensure that any fines to be collected on the basis of those trajectories cannot be contested because of such technicalities. Today, the College of Attorneys General sits together to make guidelines and agreements on this matter. I await the consultation and advice of that college in order to be able to take it into account in the framework of agreements that we then need in order to phase out all the route checks. The protocol agreements must be made. The calibration must be put on track and everything must be properly coordinated, because if the calibration is to take place too soon, it must be renewed too quickly, which is obviously an important point. The arrangements with the parquets must also be made. For all these elements, we have drawn up a schedule so that we can follow closely which route checks still have to comply with which framework conditions to be activated afterwards. So that is being followed up. That is precisely why I had a constructive discussion yesterday with my colleague, the Minister for Mobility of the Flemish Government, Lydia Peeters, to discuss this and to look at where further points need to be achieved. One of the key elements is the strengthening of regional processing centres. There is the roll-out for recruitment (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u53	Madam Secretary, you're supposed to finish. You have the same speaking time as the questioner. We apply this in the same way to Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u54	Just to say that I put my shoulders on it, that I will follow it up and that we have agreed on a timing for its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u55	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I hear steps are being taken forward. Your passion for the theme graces you. It's something that binds us, but I'll continue to ask with equal passion what the exact timing was agreed for the operation of all trajectories. I understand that a lot of steps need to be taken. I heard you say the word "phased." Phased may also mean that it may take a long time. I am counting on the people who have lost or will lose their loved ones on our roads, too, to make sure that all the traffic checks in our country function as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u56	Madam Secretary, we all saw the footage at the airport on Sunday. Due to the control of the Passenger Location Form by the federal police, the arrival hall quickly filled. You will only be a good citizen who has been to a red zone, or even an orange zone, and has behaved exemplary there. Then you come into that hall, which I believe at that time was Belgium's most dangerous place. In fact, a measure imposed by the government created a dangerous situation for those people. That can't be the intention, can it? You should also think about the basis of support. People who were alone at Christmas, or who have seen very few family in the last few months. When I see that footage, I can't imagine that they're doing a good job of supporting it. Moreover, the landing of an aircraft is not unknown. There are flight schedules. This could have been better prepared. That's why I have a few questions for you. What exactly did you think went wrong that Sunday night? What were the appointments with the carriers? In other countries, for example in the Netherlands, it is the carriers who check the document when boarding. Aren't we doing a double job in Belgium? Check at boarding, check at arrival. What were the arrangements with the BAC, the airport operator? How did the crowdcontrol meet with the BAC? What exactly was the order of the police? Did he have to systematically check everyone? Was that supposed to happen on a random basis? How was the communication between the three? Was there a distinction between people who came back from a red zone or an orange zone? What will you do to avoid this situation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u57	There were a lot of questions to answer in two minutes. What we saw at the airport, of course, is not appropriate. That doesn't contribute to the support. Fortunately, it was only short-lived. It's only been half an hour. That's half an hour too much. I agree with you on that. However, it is certainly not a systematic picture of the past few weeks and days. The Air Force has been working with the BAC for a few weeks to carry out the checks, both on completing the Passenger Location Form and on submitting a negative test result for the non-residents. These controls are being carried out today, both inside and outside Schengen. This has been new since the measures imposed. Precisely because this is a new approach, we, the Minister for Mobility in particular, have sent some letters to the BAC to examine how they would organise themselves. There have also been consultations. They were indeed prepared to manage these controls and to ensure that there would be no long traffic jams as we have seen them today. A number of flight schedules have been changed on Sunday evening, so a lot of people were present at the same time. The images as we all know them are then made. Immediately after Sunday, the BAC has been contacted. There was also a sit-down with the Air Force to make clear what went wrong. Those were the modified flight schedules. Measures were then taken to ensure that this did not happen again in the future. For example, additional agencies have been set up to control more PLFs, so that checks can be carried out more quickly and that people can also be placed more widely, so that one long file will no longer be created. It has indeed been agreed with the carriers that they should also check before the people get on the plane. That's what's gonna happen. It is not inappropriate for a new check to be carried out on arrival in Brussels to see whether this has been done properly. It is also not evident to split people from a red and orange zone from each other because those people arrive in one zone. So they can't be split checked at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u58	However, with the operational agreements we have now made, we assume that such situations will no longer be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u59	Madam Minister, you also said in this matter that letters were being sent. If a measure is tightened during the Christmas holidays, at a time when people have already left, and agreements are made a few days later, then it seems very strange to me that people are going to send letters to each other. However, that is a general remark. I believe that there are other ways of making concrete agreements. We will undoubtedly have some work to do in committee next week. According to the information available to us, there was only one flight that landed half an hour earlier than planned. However, that seems to me to be a very normal situation at an airport. There were therefore no major changes to flight schedules. Perhaps you should look at that again, because according to our information that cannot be the reason at all. So I'm not entirely reassured that we'll never see this again. I understand that you have been sitting together, and that seems fine to me, but I would like to go into this in more detail in committee next week, to see what has been agreed so that this will not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u60	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, as I know, alongside the global health and socio-economic crisis, we are facing a major crisis: the climate crisis. All the experts tell us that the urgency is absolute and that at the present time we will far exceed a warming of two degrees compared to 1990. Yet we know that these two degrees are the threshold beyond which the climate disasters that we are already facing will become totally unmanageable. In this context, post-covid economic redeployment represents a major opportunity to accelerate the transition. Our government has announced that it will make stimulus the ambitious lever for a just transition – which we look forward to. This is also the approach taken by the European Union, since it requires us that a minimum of 37% of the budget allocated to the recovery be used for strictly green investments. On 18 December 2020, a European trialogue was held. Not only did it confirm this transitional threshold, it also raised the criteria for the remaining 63 per cent. As you may know, this aspect is essential to us. On the one hand, it is not a question of having good investment projects directly oriented towards transition and, on the other hand, recovery projects linked to a simple business as usual. A lack of coherence would be notoriously fatal to our greenhouse gas reduction targets and, more generally, ecological transition. Mr Secretary of State, we know that you are working hard on the Belgian recovery plan, which is due to be submitted to the Commission next April. We suspect that projects are accumulating and that deciding must certainly not be obvious. What are the benchmarks set by the trialogue for eligible projects in our recovery plan for climate and environmental issues? So what are the cross-cutting criteria that should be used for the analysis of all projects related to the recovery plan? In other words, what guarantee can you give us that every project defended by Belgium will not only alleviate the situation of our citizens, but will also allow the change of course that we all need for today, tomorrow and the following days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u61	Madam Chair, Madam Member, thank you for your question, which is at the heart of our concerns. As you know, this government is firmly committed to respecting the Paris Agreement and, in particular, to the path of less than 55% by 2030, which is precisely aimed at limiting global warming. The recovery plan is an opportunity to accelerate the transformation towards a resilient economy, an economy capable of achieving the ambitious objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. If the Coronavirus crisis is indeed a socio-economic tragedy and a health tragedy, I think it is also for our children, a moment they will remember, a moment when we accelerated the transition and realized the value of public investment to support our work towards a more resilient economy and society. As you said, 37% of the European Recovery Fund amounts must be allocated to projects that the Commission calls green. The Commission has very marked guidelines to determine what can and cannot be categorised as a green project. For the remaining 63% that are not green labeled, a whole series of tags and criteria are defined by the Commission; we strictly apply them at Belgian level. In particular, there is a fundamental principle which is the principle of do no harm, i.e. that a project, regardless of its purpose, cannot have an objective that would defeat this objective of reducing CO2 emissions. As you can see, the government's will we are applying with all the parties involved in the recovery plan, both the federated entities and the various cabinets of the federal government, is to play in this direction and to transform society – and our economy – into a low-carbon society on a sustainable basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u62	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is clear that this recovery plan, as you are trying to coordinate it at national level, offers us prospects. I repeat: we have no doubt that this is at the heart of your concerns, whether they are yours, the federal government or the federated entities. I take advantage of the few seconds I have left to recall that climate change and the collapse of ecosystems are really the major crisis that humanity is facing today. The crisis of the covid must be taken for what it is: a disaster, of course, but also a signal of what awaits us if we continue to neglect the environmental crisis as we have done too long in recent years. The revival, or rather the redeployment that you are preparing, which we are preparing with you, is an opportunity to change course, as we will no longer have. I stress that we will never again have an opportunity like the one we have today. I insist that today we do not want to go back to normal. It's time to change. It is essential that each of the projects in our plan be able to contribute to the just transition we need, or at least not harm it. We therefore count on you to strive for maximum coherence for the climate and the environment, for the benefit of each and every one of us, here and elsewhere. Thank you in any case for your response and your shared concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u63	Madam Secretary of State for Diversity, I find it difficult to take your title seriously, but I do have a serious question for you. In France, teacher Samuel Paty was horribly decapitated, after many Islamic organizations uttered a fatwa against him, because he had shown cartoons in class. One of these organizations with blood on its hands was the Collectif contre l'islamophobie and France (CCIF), so to speak, an organization that fights against Islamophobia, but in reality an organisation that fights for the Islamization of Europe. In France, the security services and the Minister of the Interior rightly decided to dissolve the CCIF for accessory to the decapitation of Samuel Paty. But here it comes. The jihadist organization banned in France also exists with us, but under a different name, especially CCIB. Even worse, the Belgian variant is not only not prohibited, but is even receiving subsidies in our country. Prohibited in France, subsidised in Belgium. That's crazy! How is that possible? That's what people are wondering. Let me explain. Ecolo and CCIB, that's actually the same thing. The CCIB's management includes Hajib El Hajjaji. The best man is simply group chairman for Ecolo in Verviers. Another driver is Farida Tahar, who in turn is a senatrice for Ecolo. There are other board members with names that are difficult to pronounce for a simple Flemish as myself. They all have ties with your party Ecolo-Green. My question is very simple, Madam Secretary of State for Diversity. When will you finally clean up your party and take out all those Muslim extremists? Above all, when will you stop subsidising jihadist organizations banned abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u64	Mr Van Langenhove, the CCIB is a Belgian non-profit organisation that fights Islamophobia. That is right, because Islamophobia is a growing problem. In 2019, Unia dealt with 336 files on religious discrimination. Of these, 86 percent were about Islamophobia. Nine out of ten victims of Islamophobia are women, for example women who are attacked or broken up because they wear headscarfs. The CCIB subscribes to the Belgian anti-discrimination policy. This makes CCIB a valued legitimate partner, both nationally and internationally. A project grant of EUR 20,000 was awarded to the CCIB. This is the result of a transparent and objective procedure. The project call ran in March and April 2020. Ninety-six requests came in. The administration of Equal Opportunities at the FPS Justice made a thorough evaluation of the applications on the basis of transparent and uniform criteria. Following the evaluation, 15 projects were retained, including the CCIB project. The administration then delivered its recommendations to the Equal Opportunities Office of then Minister Muylle. She prepared the royal decree. Meanwhile, the current government was formed. When I joined as Secretary of State, my cabinet, on behalf of the current government, took over the representation of those grant files. On 31 December the publication in the Belgian Official Journal of all 9 projects receiving a grant was followed, including the CCIB. This shows that the government's decision on subsidies has been made completely correctly and transparently. A few days ago, I met the CCIB to ensure constructive cooperation. During my term of office, I will fight against any form of discrimination, whether it be Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, hatred of women or whatever. I'll do that in conjunction with the field. There is no reason to apply the French context to Belgium. Nor do I intend to regard any Islamic organisation as a potential security risk. We saw last night in the US where politicisation and extremism lead. You and all the other representatives of the people in this House are also responsible for ensuring that it never comes to this in Belgium. Your insinuations against the CCIB are unfounded. Let this be the end of your manhunt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u65	Madam Secretary of State for Diversity, you say that there is no reason to associate CCIB with its French variant, the CCIF. But take a good look at the logos, take a good look at the CCIF logo and take a good look at the CCIB logo. Do you see a difference? No, I see no difference either, Madam Secretary of State, and that is because in reality there is no difference between these two organisations: the same name, the same logo, the same purpose, the same working methods, the same governance. They are the same organizations, but the French variant is banned because of Muslim terrorism, because of the aid of the beheading of a teacher, and the Belgian variant is subsidised in Belgium. That is unacceptable. These organizations don't deserve our taxpayers' money, especially in these times. Take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u66	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u67	Madam President, may I know the time schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u68	Mr De Roover, you will have the floor for ten minutes. The other three speakers will be given five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u69	Madam President, how much speaking time is there for the reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u70	Mr De Roover, everyone has five minutes to reply. The government has 20 minutes to speak. If you wish, you may come here for your interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u71	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to begin by expressing my best wishes. They apply to everyone, by the way. However, I have a little more time now than before to pronounce them. I did not want to cut my very limited speaking time at the time in order to set the Prime Minister on fire. By the end of 2020, before the recess, at the end of a very long sitting, I notice that you have been a part of it for a very long time, and that you have suddenly been confronted with the appearance, but above all the disappearance of a tweet of yours, particularly the disappearance of yours, because it always gives the impression that something is wrong. Otherwise they'll leave the tweet. On closer inspection it turned out not to be a dt-fault, which is sometimes a good reason to make a tweet disappear and then to put it back with the right shape. However, it was a table which was noted, and which was not only a justification, as you explained that evening, for the amounts discussed during the previous hours. The question arose as to whether there was money for the purchase of vaccines and how much money there was before. The tweet contained a table with very detailed partial results. Of all vaccines ordered within the European context, it was particularly nice to indicate the number of vaccines ordered per brand, and what the cost per vaccine was, with the multiplication of course giving a number that would account for or justify your budget figure. I had you come here the same night. I apologize for that, but politics is a tough trick. I assume you were able to make up for the sleep after that. At least I have done so, and many of us will have done so. I understand that the answers you gave that evening may not have taken away all the misunderstandings. That is why I have proposed to allow some time to pass, so that everyone could look at this matter seriously again, so that we can have the greatest transparency about what happened there. In the same context, I have also submitted an interplay to Minister Vandenbroucke. The reactions in the following moments and days showed that there has been contact between your cabinet and the government of the Minister of Health. I will list the questions I have to answer, so that you can give them a very concrete answer and hopefully we can close this matter. They are motivated by a concern, Mrs De Bleeker, for the reputation of this country. That may sound strange from the mouth of an N-VA, but as long as we are still a part of it, we are, of course, the victims of the reputational damage that this country may suffer. On 27 October, the Dutch Minister of Health replied to questions by a Dutch member of the Socialist Party in a letter to the House of Representatives, which is a widely used and not bad technique in the Netherlands, which is actually the sister party of the Belgian PVDA, not the sp.a. In that letter he replied among other things: "The Dutch representatives, like the representatives of the other participating Member States, are bound by an obligation of professional secrecy." Our country is of course one of those other participating Member States, so we can actually say that this letter to the Dutch Lower House is equally applicable in our case. What is more, the Dutch minister writes: "In my opinion, there is no information about the advance purchase agreements in other countries publicly that is not public in the Netherlands." Maybe he had to send a new letter after your tweet, because I think it's colliding with it a little bit. The answer to the third question was: "The obligation of confidentiality is based on a confidentiality clause in the contract between the European Commission and the producers concerned. The Dutch representatives, like the representatives of the other participating Member States, have, therefore, 'now a non-disclosure declaration is also bound by this obligation of professional secrecy'. Madam Secretary of State, in your reply on the same 17 December evening, you said that you wish to be transparent. I hope that will characterize your entire policy, because we are counting on it. You have literally said that you may have been a little too transparent. This, of course, raises the question of what is meant by 'too transparent'. Soon I will ask a series of questions to your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke. I would like to put the following questions to you. Madam Secretary of State, you said from the table in your tweet that it was made on the basis of information. If you have not said exactly that, then you will improve it if necessary. I don't think it was a literal takeover. That is why I ask you to support that table. Where'd you get that data? Secondly, how correct were those figures? You have made that public and even if a tweet is withdrawn, evil has already happened, because we can still consult it. How correct were the figures in that table that you sent with the tweet to the world? Thirdly, you said that you were perhaps too transparent. What does the word "toe" mean in there? To what extent have you exceeded transparency rules that you should not exceed? Fourthly, what contacts have been made with Minister Vandebroucke's cabinet on this matter? What did his cabinet or himself say that gave rise to the removal of the tweet? What argument has been put forward for this? Fifthly, you said that that evening that the vaccines would be delivered anyway and that nothing was in danger. Fortunately, that would have been very far-reaching. After all, the pharmaceutical sector, which takes care of medicines, does not have the best call. Especially the name big pharma suggests that there are money creators there who want to get as much money as possible for the efforts they make. A good call, therefore, does not have big pharma and I cannot imagine that they would proceed to claim compensation. That would also damage their already bad reputation. I understand that they will deliver the vaccines and that they will not even take formal steps. We're neither lawyers, but I still want to ask what the potential impact of what you did there was. After all, you cannot say that it is not a bad thing that you drove 150 km per hour on the highway because you did not hit anyone. What was the potential impact of what you did? Finally, after this two-week reflection, would you dare formally say that you have violated the rules of confidentiality that you had to comply with?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the 21st century, in a democratic world that is experiencing a serious pandemic, the debate we have today should never have taken place. I'm not questioning your tweet here. This debate should not have taken place, because the situation is so serious that the transparency of prices and liability clauses in the event of side effects should have been complete. As the previous government did, this government has been saying for weeks that full transparency on prices and non-liability clauses in the event of side effects is not possible because you have accepted and signed contracts with confidentiality clauses. First of all, I would like to go back to these famous clauses because I am one of those who have been asking the government for several months to be transparent, for two reasons: firstly, for a major reason of public health, but also because it is vital, in a matter such as that of vaccines, to obtain and maintain the confidence of the citizens. However, the government and Minister Vandenbroucke systematically fall behind these famous confidentiality clauses, without ever giving us any knowledge of them. I admit I was very surprised when I saw your tweet that I found very interesting. I'm also disappointed that you took it out. I will return to that point. Indeed, in this tweet, you gave the information we had long asked for and had been denied us in the name of confidentiality. I'm told you're competent. So I cannot believe that, as Secretary of State, you were not aware of these clauses. And I guess in charge of the budget, you couldn't have been working, for some time, on vaccines, prices, etc. So you must have seen the contracts. I can't imagine that a minister of the budget didn't read those contracts. So you had to know the clauses. But basically, the fact that you sent this tweet actually raises the question of whether these clauses exist or not. Indeed, either they exist, and then I cannot imagine that you have not been informed, or they do not exist, and that would rightly explain your tweet. In the latter case, I do not understand Minister Vandenbroucke's denial of transparency. I will tell you very clearly, Madam Secretary of State, the only way to answer this question, whether these clauses exist or not, is to provide us with those provisions of the contract that contain these confidentiality clauses. Indeed, in view of what has happened, we must verify the existence and scope of these clauses. That is exactly what I am asking you today. Moreover, I note that in other countries of the European Union a whole range of price information is available. This makes me even more interested in asking what these clauses are that we keep putting forward, even though we have never seen them. You never showed them to us, neither you nor the other members of the government. I don't have much time left. My second question relates to the legal and financial consequences should these clauses exist. My colleague De Roover has mentioned them and I am not going to stop there now. My third question is: Why did you withdraw your tweet? You may have already said that, but who asked you to? Finally, my final question is to go back to this compliance story. Again, you are Minister of Budget. In fact, you counted the total of the vaccines, the price per vaccine and the total budget. For one of the vaccines, the famous CureVac, we are told that only half of the order was made, that is 5.8 million for you but 2.9 million for Minister Vandenbroucke. I don't understand. What is the reality of this figure? Why is there a difference between your vaccine order number and that of the Minister of Health? Do you confirm to me that the figures you have disclosed are the correct ones? These are not anecdotal issues, given the way forward and the decisions taken, in particular by the committee, to examine and fix the prices of vaccines. For this vaccine, this committee had a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u73	Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, you will no doubt remember the discussion of your first budget. So are we. The files containing destructive comments from the Court of Auditors, the National Bank and the European Commission counted almost more pages than your own budget. In particular, you will remember that night from 17 to 18 December. I admit that my memories of those discussions after 46 hours of awakening are not all as sharp, but at some point you knew very well what time it was. Just because you were lighted out of your bed following that forbidden table with prices of the corona vaccines you had been dripping on Twitter. You removed that tweet shortly after like a thief in the night, but evil had been done. What happens on Twitter, stays on Twitter . The moment you removed that tweet, I'm sure you knew you had made a mistake. You then came to the Chamber to explain transparency and drive. Transparency, I want to be very clear about this, is very important to us on this issue. But we do live in the rule of law, and we must honour those contracts and the corresponding clauses. What was at that time minimal, but most intrigued me, was the detailed chronology of what took place on that 17th December. You were tired. You were tired of the questions about the budget and the questions about the budgets, whether they were released or not, and about the vaccines. And you wanted to end the discussion. You said you'd publish the numbers. Then, as I understood from the discussion, you contacted the Minister of Health's cabinet. But then what? Who did you ask for the prices of the vaccines from? Did you explain why you wanted to obtain these figures? Did you report that you were going to make it public? Who gave you those numbers? What I would also like to see clarified is who contacted you after you made those numbers world-familiar through your tweet to report that that tweet had to be removed again. A next set of questions is about the potential damage your tweet might cause. The information that was tweeted was part of the confidentiality clause. On the night of 17 to 18 December, I asked you if you could confirm this. There was no answer to that at the time, but I assume the answer will come today. Are the potential sanctions for infringements of the aforementioned clauses part of the confidentiality clause? If that is not the case, there is nothing to prevent us from telling you what sanctions Belgium may or may not potentially be overwhelmed by violating that confidentiality clause. A number of experts believe that pharmaceutical companies could take Belgium to court. According to my information, Belgium has not yet been in default nor directly requested to pay any compensation. You may be able to clarify whether there are indicators for this. EU Commissioner Kyriakides noted in De Standaard, following your tweet, that it could have very serious consequences. She said that "we now have a deal with six companies, but with two other companies we are still negotiating. The release of other contracts could undermine those ongoing negotiations." What about the negotiations with the other two companies that had not yet been agreed? Following the knowledge of prices, are there any competitors who have adjusted their prices upwards? Are there any other parties with whom there was already an agreement that, following your tweet, have adjusted prices, to the extent that that would be possible? An increase in prices would, of course, have repercussions on what will have to be paid in the final form by the Member States, by all the countries bound by them, and also by this country. If there is any impact on prices, what amount is that? If, unfortunately, that is a positive answer, will you take it into account in your next budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u74	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, as has already been said, you released the covid vaccine price on 17 December. That was information that was supposed to be kept secret from the public. In doing so, perhaps unintentionally, you ensured a bit of transparency in an important dossier. Until that day, many people were wondering how much we are actually paying for these corona vaccines. It's weird that the N-VA is calling you here on the mat. On the one hand, they are asking for transparency and on the other hand they are asking to keep that jar well covered. I don't understand that very well. The Flemish Interest follows the N-VA in this regard. We know that the N-VA is following Voka's commands, and I'll conclude that from now on, she'll follow yours as well as the big pharma's. For public health, what you have done is an excellent thing. Transparency is not the problem, but it is the solution. The mistake for us is not that you sent that tweet, but that you deleted it. The days that followed the publication of your tweet, Test-Achats, for example, which had been demanding for days the publication of the contracts congratulated you:do it again! There have been chronicles in several newspapers. There are the people of Médecins Sans Frontières fighting for universal access. Today, the vaccine is partly available in Europe and the United States, but in third-world countries, some people will have to wait until 2022 before they have access to the vaccine. The people who are fighting for universal access have of course welcomed the gesture that has been made here in Parliament and they have seized this opportunity. Actually, there are two problems. Transparency is about our citizens having the right to know what happens to our taxpayers' money. As Secretary of State, you have a duty to explain to Parliament. At the time when we were asked for an explanation of what we are entitled to, information was given which apparently should not be given. Normally, public access to public administration is a basic principle. Then, of course, we are talking about more than transparent governance. What has happened and transparency also brings down prices. What we have learned from the table you may be explaining in the near future is that the Moderna vaccine costs much more than that of AstraZeneca. Pfizer's vaccine is also much more expensive than the other vaccines. They have nothing to say about wounded, Pfizer has always said he wants to make a profit with the vaccine. That's right. Now we know a little bit more about how much we're paying for that. With transparent prices, the government is, of course, stronger in the negotiations. If someone with a vaccine with the same technology as AstraZeneca would come on the market now, why would we pay more than 1.78 euros for it? Unlike my colleagues, I think that this is what makes us stronger than less strong. I am therefore pleased that it has happened and I believe that public pressure for accessible medicines improves our negotiating position, but also the negotiating position of the people around the world who are campaigning today, among other things, in Europe to ensure that those vaccines become available to everyone. Surely it is vengeful that there is a pandemic and that profits are made, while technology is not shared with everyone. We just talked about it: Pfizer doesn't deliver enough doses, but if they released their production process, it could be produced anywhere and we could have effectively vaccinated everyone within a few months. Has the Minister of Health or has his cabinet contacted you? Did they ask you to remove that tweet? With what arguments? Why did you go into that? Why did you remove that tweet? How do you justify the fact that the population in itself bears a very large proportion of public investment, but is prevented from knowing exactly what price we pay for the vaccines? What exactly did you publish? We know that the price of Pfizer's vaccine in your table was 12 euros. Through the European Commission, we have learned that the price would be €15.5. So I would like to know more about the exact price of the vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u75	Madam President, I will first explain the chronology of the facts. As you know, during the parliamentary debates on the budget on Wednesday morning, the question was asked whether or not the cost of vaccination was included in the budget. In this context, my staff have contacted the staff of the Minister of Health's cabinet to see if there was any additional information available. That telephone call explained that this information was requested in the context of the discussions that were currently taking place in Parliament. Documents were then delivered, which included a table. On Wednesday night, I replied during my speech that there was therefore a budget and the way in which it was provided for. After the debate in Wednesday night's plenary session, that table was then placed on the social media platform Twitter on Thursday afternoon in order to create maximum transparency, clarity and security, security for the population that the first vaccines were indeed coming and that a budget was foreseen. After publishing the relevant table, my cabinet was contacted again by employees of the Health Administration, on which the information was deleted. As far as the consequences of this incident are concerned, I understand, of course, the questions about the existence, the possible violation and the breach of the confidentiality clause and the accuracy of the figures, but I suspect that you also understand that confirming or denying those matters is a catch 22 for me. So I am really not in a position to answer that. This also applies to a number of specific questions put by Mrs Merckx. What I can do is refer to the answer I gave in plenary on Wednesday night. For the sake of completeness, I quote from the report of that sitting. "Concretely, therefore, a first part of the vaccines will already be purchased with the corona commission for 2020 for a total amount of 279 million euros. It concerns 33,5 million vaccines. This amount took into account all European Commission contracts concluded with vaccine producers, namely AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi, CureVac and Moderna. In accordance with the agreement with the Commission, this is a pre-financing of the Member States. That budget will be committed in 2020. At the time when the effective cost of the purchase of the vaccines will be known, the payment will now be made from the settlement appropriations of 2021." After this quote, I would like to comment on the consequences of the incident and on your questions about it. I have not personally been contacted by the European Commission or a manufacturer of vaccines following this incident. I understand that the issue was briefly referred to in the margins of the debate on the Brexit between the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission. Our conclusion was that there would be no impact. I am also aware that there is no impact on the price or delivery or any other impact on the contracts already concluded between the European Union and the suppliers of vaccines. The same applies to the negotiations which would still be under way. I or the government have not received any signals in this respect either. Nor have I or the government received any signals from any court cases, any formal notice or any claim for damages or any preparation thereof. Like you, I noticed that the first vaccines arrived and were administered and that the vaccination campaign started, as in other EU Member States. Nevertheless, and although it was my intention to bring peace, I understand that my action has created commotion. That was really not my intention, and I would like to apologize for that. With regard to the question about the CureVac vaccine, my colleague, the Minister of Public Health, has already answered this question at the plenary session at the end of last year. The Interdepartmental Conference of Ministers of Public Health decided to purchase 1.9 million doses of the Curevac vaccine. This is the correct information on the quantity purchased.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u77	It is actually indicated 2.9 million doses in my written text. Excuse me, ma'am. Mrs Merckx, transparency is indeed a core value of my policy, of the way I want to do politics. When, for example, the Committee on Finance and the Budget asked me about the draft budget plan for the European Commission, I also immediately shared that document. No rule required me to do so, but I did so because I believe that Parliament is entitled to that information. I will therefore be as transparent as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, you have achieved a unique achievement for the government here. You're the first one who hasn't gone well over time. On the contrary, you have left 14 minutes. I am sure that Mr Vandenbroucke will fill it out in due course. That's how we know how to use his time. Your answers were very brief. It has pleasantly surprised me that the PVDA has made a plea for the free market here. The representative said that transparency leads to lower prices. That is indeed a characteristic of the free market principle. I'm surprised to be together. If you do not specialize in fake news soon, you will no longer be able to do so; so hurry, ladies and gentlemen, you knew that we, together with s.pa, have taken a legislative initiative that, thanks to the parties who supported us, this legislature was approved and intended to involve the Court of Auditors and to provide the necessary information on such contracts to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. Unlike the PVDA, we are actually doing something about transparency. Having said that, we do so with respect for the rule of law and with respect for contractual agreements. That too may be a difference between us and the PVDA. Mrs De Bleeker, you have indeed caused the disapproval of an EU Commissioner. When you said earlier that there was a debate in the Chamber, let us clarify that the broad use of the principle of commissions was the cause of that debate. Indeed, provisions do not lead to transparency; they are not, by definition, transparent, because we have the councils for what they are used for. Anyway, you said, very carefully, and I understand that you had been in contact by telephone and that documents containing tables were delivered. We haven't found out who you've been in contact with. You then said, "Afterwards, my cabinet was contacted by staff of the Health Administration." So I assume you also received that information from the Health Office. I don't think you said that. That is, however, important information. What you didn't tell us is why you were asked to withdraw the tweet. Mr. Vandenbroucke will be here soon. It will certainly shed light on that, because I can assume that the information from that side is the same as the information that has arrived at you. The most important thing of what you have said is that you are not in a position to give an answer. I understand that, because you actually say that you went incredibly wrong at the time. In fact, it is a statement that you will not do that again, that you will not make the mistake of that time, and that you will not confirm that the numbers are correct, because you will do it again. We know the story of the donkey and the second time. If you are not in a position today to confirm whether those figures are correct, if you are following the clause that you did not follow at the time, then that is, of course, a far-reaching and formal admission of guilt. I think this is a serious fact. You also say you haven't received any signals from court cases or damages. I've already argued why I don't expect that either. Indeed, it is not in the interests of those involved to draw this to the public forum again. However, you are definitely someone who tore across the highway at 150 km/h, but at home you said you didn't hit anyone and never drive that fast again. I hope so, of course. Your admission of guilt is far-reaching. I have noted your apologies; they are beautiful and their expression graces you. The debate is about to continue with Minister Vandenbroucke. Transparency is very important, but I do not think that you have acted as a State Secretary should be expected to do in those circumstances. That's a stain on you and on your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u79	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. Do I have to understand from your comments today that you refuse to provide us with the confidentiality clauses? Is that what I need to understand about your answer to my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u80	I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u81	Yes, you read your text. We are still in a surreal situation! I often hear here from a number of parties the demand for transparency, democracy, parliamentary control, all these great speeches. The Prime Minister came to explain it to us later. Do you measure the situation? For weeks, for months, in the government, you have been hiding behind the confidentiality clauses on this contract. You're writing your tweet. I was happy about that, I said it already. Now, in addition to that, you refuse to provide not the content of the contract but the confidentiality clauses. So you are putting Parliament in a position to check whether what you are saying is true or not. Madam President, I turn to you. This is totally unacceptable! It will suffice tomorrow for any minister to say that there is a secret clause that he cannot show us. As a result, he will be able to hide the content but, in addition, he will be able to pretend that there is a clause that would not exist. It's never before seen!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u82	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u83	Mr Laaouej, I regret not having done a little archaeological work and not having come here with the history of each other's comments, but I will be happy to do so for the next time. I cannot imagine, Madam Secretary of State, that you are refusing to allow Parliament to verify that the clauses really exist. Either it's you, or it's Minister Vandenbroucke, or it's both because I just saw your little sign saying "it's him," the look of passing hands to Minister Vandenbroucke. I don't care. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u84	One day I'll just read what others have said and I'll have a lot of fun. I think it's never seen before! Madam President, do I have the floor because I hear bad echoes on my left? Madam President, don't hesitate! You have a mallet! Madam Secretary of State, I had appreciated your transparency. Now you are refusing to provide the confidentiality clauses contained in the vaccine agreements to allow Parliament to check whether you have breached clauses, as some say, or whether we could be more transparent in the same way as other countries in the European Union. We are unable to do so. You are clearing your customs with an easy form of political pirouette which, I tell you, is unacceptable to the citizens, all the more so in the grievous situation of pandemic as we are living. You yourself said that the vaccines had arrived and that we were vaccinating. Personally, I note above all that we are terribly inefficient and terribly late. Frankly, I think there is something to say about how the negotiations were held and how the vaccines were distributed among the different Member States of the European Union. I do not necessarily make a connection with what we are talking about here because I am not yet sure, but it is in any case a point that I will examine with great attention. Minister, in response, you sit down on the minimum of transparency. You should at least have given Parliament, not the opposition but the citizens, the possibility of being able to check whether these clauses exist and whether carabistours are told about this opacity around prices and about non-responsibility clauses in case of side effects. Madam Chair, in light of this response, I am tabling a motion and asking the government to provide us with all the confidentiality clauses contained in these agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u85	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I have asked you a whole series of specific questions, including those to whom you requested the figures on the cost of vaccines and whether you have given the reason why you wanted to obtain the figures. I also asked you whether you mentioned that you would make the figures public and who sent them to you afterwards. You end your answer by saying that you want to be as transparent as possible in the future. However, you have missed an opportunity by not answering my questions. During the budget negotiations in the Chamber on Wednesday, you replied that documents were delivered. You didn't mention by whom. I assume it's the same people as the cabinet you contacted to remove the tweet. I hope your colleague will tell us in a moment. I note that you are not getting the impression that there has indeed been a breach of the obligation of confidentiality in that contract. You apologize for the commotion you didn't want to cause. However, I have not heard any excuses for the blunder that you have finally committed. You have admitted this implicitly, since you have said today that you cannot answer a large number of questions that have been asked. This confirms that there is a confidentiality clause and confirms that you have indeed made a mistake. Madam Secretary of State, I feel a little sorry for you. You haven't been in your current job that long. Blundering is never pleasant. So let me reassure you. After all, we have already seen a lot of blunders from the previous government in the Corona approach. Mrs. De Block, for example, still has street lengths ahead of you, so don't leave your sleep for it. That one blunder of yours really doesn't stand out between all the other blunders that the current government and the previous government have made and made. Secondly, you should also be reassured, because many failed liberal politicians have been given a lucrative career or top job. Think about Turtelboom, Moerman and Pinxten. So you certainly don't have to sleep in that area either. Nor will your constituents disappoint you. After all, you didn't have one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u86	Madam Secretary of State, you have just confirmed that it was Mr Vandenbroucke, a socialist, who had asked a liberal to keep Big Pharma's contracts secret and to respect their confidentiality. I wanted to stress this because I was concerned about it. I've seen your discomfort. It's still serious! You've made a few prices transparent. This gesture was welcomed by those who are fighting for the accessibility of medicines and, in this case, the vaccine. You tremble, but fear has to change sides. In any case, together with others in Europe, we will continue the fight in this direction. As I said, many people do not have access to the vaccine. However, if technologies were widely shared with everyone, we could end the pandemic as quickly as possible. It is simply impossible to explain to the man in the street that we should not know how much to pay for the vaccines. Some parties manage to use a double discourse. They're calling you out here while they say they're defending the citizen and doing big pharma lip service. Mr De Roover, there is no free market for vaccines. We paid for everything, both the research and the vaccines. We must also assume responsibility for certain side effects. The private sector has therefore taken no risk here, it is the state that takes all the risks. On top of that, they even want the price to remain secret. In a free market, the price comes on the table, but they want to keep the price secret in order to obtain and maintain a monopoly position. So we do not want people to be able to calculate how much profit is being made with this pandemic. They also do not want to share their technology, which means that the whole world has to wait for Pfizer and their vaccines, for example. Not everyone could take advantage of this to put an end to the pandemic. However, we fight for medication as an audience good. The pharmaceutical industry can play a role in this, but with the cards on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u87	Since it is only right to await the answer before a motion is tabled, I have not been able to deliver it to you immediately. I've now received a copy and will file it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u88	Madam President, I have tabled a simple motion signed by six group chairmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u89	Madam Chair, I have also tabled a motion for recommendation. I forgot to mention it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u90	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Secretary of State for Budget and Consumer Protection, Assistant to the Minister of Justice, in charge of the North Sea, Whereas the contracts for vaccines against covid-19 are not transparent, whereas the Belgian Government and the European Commission refuse Members of Parliament any right of control over contracts and this is contrary to their duty of justification; - Whereas citizens bear a very large proportion of public investment in research, development and expansion of production capacity and financial risk; - Whereas the European Commission maintains its risk reduction strategy by transferring the risk of investment from a large company to the public authorities; - Whereas citizens are subject to a total lack of transparency since they are not allowed to know the price they pay precisely for vaccines; - Whereas transparency would make it possible to lower prices since the public authorities could thus negotiate a price reduction; - Whereas it appears from a public survey carried out by Sciensano on Belgium's covid-19 policy that it is essential that the vaccination policy be fully transparent; asks the government - to be fully transparent and to allow access to the original documents relating to the covid-19 vaccine delivery agreements concluded between the European Commission, Member States and producers; - to make clear the legal responsibilities, public investment, total vaccine prices and revenues generated by vaccine producers." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Secretary of State for the Budget and Consumer Protection, attached to the Minister of Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - whereas the contracts relating to the COVID-19 vaccines are not transparent, that the Belgian Government and the European Commission refuse any understanding of the contracts and that this is contrary to their accountability; - whereas the population bears a very large share of public investment in research, development, expansion of production capacity and financial risk; - whereas the European Commission is pursuing a 'de-risk' strategy, i.e. transferring the investment risk from the large enterprise to the public sector; - whereas a total lack of transparency prevents the population from knowing exactly what price it is paying for vaccines; - whereas transparency should ensure lower prices, as this would allow public authorities to negotiate the price downwards; - whereas a survey of the population of Sciensano on the Belgian COOVID-19 policy shows that full transparency in vaccination policy is essential; calls on the Government - to ensure full transparency and access to the original documents relating to the COOVID-19 vaccine agreements between the European Commission, the Member States and producers; - to provide full clarity on liability, public investment, total prices of vaccines, and revenues for vaccine producers.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Secretary of State for Budget and Consumer Protection, Assistant to the Minister of Justice, in charge of the North Sea, asks the government to provide him with all the confidentiality clauses contained in the vaccine agreements in order to enable him to assess whether those clauses had been breached by the Secretary of State and whether they justified the Government's refusal to provide the Chamber with any information concerning the content of those agreements." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Secretary of State for the Budget and Consumer Protection, attached to the Minister of Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, calls on the Government to provide it with all confidentiality clauses in the contracts relating to the vaccines so that it can evaluate, on the one hand, whether those clauses were infringed by the State Secretary and, on the other hand, whether the Government's refusal to provide different information on the content of those agreements was justified on the basis of those clauses.' A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Secretary of State for Budget and Consumer Protection, Assistant to the Minister of Justice, in charge of the North Sea, - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health during the current affairs debate on 16 December 2020 in the Committee on Public Health and Equal Opportunities; - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health and the Secretary of State for the Budget in plenary session on 17 December 2020; - having regard to the publication and withdrawal of the tweet by the Secretary of State for the Budget on the price of vaccines against coronavirus and the quantities ordered; - in view of the damage to the image of our country as a business partner; - in view of the distrust that this damage to the image can create among our European partners; asks the government - to ensure that confidential information is handled professionally within the government; - respect the rules of the rule of law and the treaty obligations undertaken; - to always comply with all the agreements reached in the framework of a European initiative and thus not to damage our country's reputation as a reliable partner of the European Union; - to always ensure full transparency on contracts concluded, provided that this is contractually possible." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Secretary of State for the Budget and Consumer Protection, attached to the Minister of Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health during the Actua debate of 16 December 2020 in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities; - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health and the State Secretary for Budget at the plenary session of 17 December 2020; - having regard to the appearance and withdrawal of the Secretary of State for the Budget's tweet on the price of corona vaccines and the quantities ordered, - having regard to the image damage suffered by this country as a reliable partner of the business world; - having regard to the mistrust that may result from this in our European partners; calls on the Government - ensuring that confidential information is handled professionally within the government; - to comply with the rule of law and contractual obligations entered into; - to comply with all agreements within the framework of a European initiative, thus not to harm the reputation of that country as a reliable European partner; - to ensure full transparency on contracts entered into as far as possible." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have been following closely, so I must not again begin my conversation about the communication that has taken place. Now it appears that a number of pertinent questions can no longer be answered. Mrs Fonck was right to point out that we in Parliament may have a small problem in order to be properly informed. We will certainly listen carefully to your answer to this. Mr Vandenbroucke, I have to say that you betrayed me a little on that night. I quote from the report, in response to my questions: 'I cannot speak on behalf of other people about their tweets or communications. You will have to ask Mrs De Bleeker yourself." I did. Later you said, when I insisted: "I should consult with Mrs De Bleeker on this." What do we hear now? That you had consulted Mrs De Bleeker that those contacts had taken place at that time. You cannot hide behind the fact that the cabinet was opposite the cabinet. The cabinet and you are indivisible. You then gave the impression that you fell from the sky, while you yourself shot the tweet out of the sky. That is not a correct way of communicating in a parliament. I am disappointed by that, Mr Vandenbroucke. You should have taken responsibility at that time. I do not think you should have let down your young fellow Secretary of State, with your tons of experience. You shouldn't have been playing squeaky dick there, as they say with us. You know the truth always comes out. I am therefore pleased that we have waited two weeks with this interplay. In the whirlwind of circumstances, that information might otherwise have been lost. I hope that we can have more confidence in the communications you make in this Chamber in the future. You know that there are countries that are seriously offended when the Chamber is misinformed. You did that manifesto that evening, Minister. I do not have the impression that everyone is or wants to be as transparent as Mrs De Bleeker. We were just talking about events in the United States. The correct and immediate information of Parliament is a sacred principle that you have trampled on before, and I take it as an offense. You have not taken up your responsibilities and you have only sent your colleague on the line of fire at a time when she had followed a debate for many hours. I'm disappointed in you, that's not correct. We will try to loosen transparency with you this time. I have a number of questions that are sufficient in number to read them as literally as possible, so that we can soon find out what answers you have given, because I want to know what we are doing. First of all, do you or your cabinet have "you" and wherever I say "you," I mean your cabinet, which is one and indivisible "you" about the prices of the various possible covid vaccines that were registered through the EU? Do you know him? What government agency provided you with that information? Was this delivered to you in the context of a confidentiality obligation? I would like a clear answer to that. Secondly, I'd like to get confirmation of what was just said, because it was a little overflowing. Did Secretary of State De Bleeker receive the information on the basis of which that table was drawn up by your cabinet? Was that information correctly taken over in the tweet? Thirdly, if so, is it customary for your cabinet to provide such information to a Secretary of State, in this particular case the Secretary of State for the Budget? Is this in line with the agreements that apply between you and the authority that provided you with this information? How and when was this information sent to the Secretary of State's office? Fourthly, what communication took place between you, your cabinet and the Cabinet and/or the Secretary of State on 17 December 2020 in response to the tweet made by the Secretary of State, in which she mentioned the prices per vaccine? What was the content of the contact between you and Secretary of State De Bleeker? Fifth, did you or your cabinet order her to remove that tweet? If so, with what argument? Sixthly, why did you find placing that tweet inaudible and wrong? Seventh, does Secretary of State De Bleeker, by sending the aforementioned tweet with information provided by you, have contractual agreements of which you have violated knowledge? Was she aware of those appointments? Eighth, did you inform her that she was not allowed to do so when you provided that information? If not, why did you leave it? Ninth, if the answer to the question whether Secretary of State De Bleeker, by sending the aforementioned tweet, violated contractual agreements of which you are aware, yes, what agreements did she violate? What consequences could the placing of such a tweet have had, whether or not the Secretary of State had previously suspected that those consequences would not have taken place? Tenth, are the prices and the table still valid? Can we continue to do so? 11th, Secretary of State De Bleeker says it has had no consequences and that it is actually a failure diverse. With my apologies, but if it's a failure diverse, why did you ask for the tweet to be withdrawn? The tweet still contains interesting information. Are you too reluctant to open up to public opinion? If the statement of the Secretary of State is correct, I would also like to know what possibilities this offers for providing further information in the future, if it does not have any consequences. In this case, public opinion and Parliament can be better informed than is currently the case. Several colleagues from my group have asked you for information, but you have regularly been hiding behind certain confidentiality clauses. However, perhaps we are now experiencing an important moment, namely that we can ignore these confidentiality clauses, because ensuring transparency does not have any impact on this very important issue for society. Last question. Do you agree with me that the reputation of this country has been seriously violated by this event? I thank you for the specific answers, for which you will have plenty of time, to each of the questions I have asked. That is the purpose of an interplay, and you owe me something after the mysteriousness of the evening when I first asked you these questions. I would like to thank you for making up for that moment and that mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u92	Mr Minister, we have already had a discussion today on how many vaccines were purchased and delivered at what price. Tomorrow there will be a very interesting discussion on the vaccine strategy in the Committee on Health, to which you will probably reply very comprehensively. Please do not use your speaking time for that later, because that is not the discussion today. Now we are talking about clauses in contracts that have to be respected. It concerns the consequences of clauses in those contracts, concrete legal consequences, liability, consequences of breaches of the obligation of confidentiality contained in the clauses. Following on from the debate with Secretary of State De Bleeker that we have just had, there are some questions that deserve some clarification. Initially, you will be able to confirm that the Secretary of State has contacted your cabinet to request the prices of the vaccines. When did she do that? Is it true that this was on Wednesday in the context of the budget negotiations? I hope you will answer the question that I have just asked her: was it given the reason why she wanted to obtain these figures? Did you know, when you delivered those figures through your cabinet, what I suppose those figures would be made public? I find it difficult to imagine that your cabinet would give confidential information for no reason at all. On the other hand, I do think that if you knew this, if your cabinet knew the truth, there would be a third accomplice in breach of contract and also a great responsibility of your cabinet in this matter. Secretary of State De Bleeker has just said that your cabinet has asked her to remove that tweet. I would very much like to know the reasons for this. Can you say that the information that was tweeted was part of a confidentiality clause? What are the potential sanctions for breaches of that confidentiality clause? Secretary of State De Bleeker says she can't answer that. Do you share that opinion? I will not repeat the rest of the questions on my list because they have already been put by a previous speaker. I would like to add one more point, Minister, since there are several countries involved in this contract. I have just raised the concerns of the EU Commissioner in my question to Secretary of State De Bleeker. I would like to know whether there have been any reactions from other countries involved in that contract. Not that I, like Mr De Roover, am concerned with Belgium's reputation in this area, but I would like to know if there have been any reactions. If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u93	The questions I will put to you, Minister, relate to the same subject as the questions I asked Mrs De Bleeker. It's about her tweet. Mrs. De Bleeker has just confirmed that you or your cabinet asked you to remove that tweet. A socialist minister thus defends the secrecy of big pharma. Point 2 of the S.pa's Pill Plan in five actions concerns inhibiting secret contracts and ensuring transparency. I won't read you your own party's election program. A fist would be made against big pharma via The Pill Plan. We were supposed to have transparency. You've just become a minister. Mrs De Bleeker wants to answer Parliament's questions about the budgets. The price will be released and you will eventually make sure that price becomes secret again. Until today, we have not received any more information. When we received the prizes, of course, there were many new questions. They asked why one vaccine costs 1.78 euros and another 18 euros per dose and how such a large price difference could be justified. The real cost of production was requested. We funded all this. Can't we know how much we're paying for it? Those are all very pertinent questions. Test Purchase also asked for the prices and contracts to be known. I am surprised at the role you have played in this. My specific questions are as follows, Minister. Did you ask for that tweet to be removed? That's what it is, and why did you do it? How do you justify the fact that the population bears a very large share of public investment, but does not receive the information on the exact price it has to pay? How do you explain the difference between the price of EUR 12 for the Pfizer vaccine, which we saw in the deleted table on Twitter, and the price of EUR 15.5 per dose released in the context of the debates of the European Commission? It also appears that the AstraZeneca vaccine could be considerably more expensive from July 2021. Do you have any more information about that? You promised in Parliament that you would go for transparency, but at the time of that transparency, you are blocking it. Will you at some point provide transparency and access to documents and clarify liability and public investment? Our country, like other EU Member States, contributed to a European emergency instrument, the Emergency Support Instrument, and a large part of that budget goes to the purchase agreements with vaccine producers. What is our country's contribution and what is the share of public money and the share of private investment? Has Belgium laid down certain conditions for its contribution to that instrument? Are you defending the fact that the European Commission is following a de-risk strategy, namely transferring the investment risk from companies to the public authorities? How do you defend the fact that the vaccine will not be available for one fifth of the world's population because multinationals hold on to their exclusive ownership rights? How do you defend the vaccine becoming private property at all, despite the fact that most of the investment risk is borne by the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u94	You will receive a maximum of 20 minutes for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u95	I will, of course, group together the elements of the answer, Madam President. As Minister of Health, I can only enter into commitments on behalf of the Belgian State with regard to the scope such as the order of the vaccines following the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate and the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget. It is clear that a complete dossier should be submitted for this purpose, with all relevant information. On 30 November 2020, the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment provided my policy cell with a file for the purchase of the COVID-19 vaccines, with a view to submitting an application to the Secretary of State for Budget for the distribution of the necessary appropriations from the interdepartmental commission. The request for advice to the Treasury Inspectorate, which was attached to the file, included a table setting out the amount requested for distribution from the commission. That table, from the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, indicated unit prices and possible quantities to be ordered per supplier. In the request for agreement to the Secretary of State for the Budget for the distribution of appropriations from the commission, drawn up by my policy cell, the table of the FAGG was taken over to account for the amount to be allocated out of the commission. The application for agreement was sent to the Secretary of State on 11 December 2020. At the request of the Secretary of State's policy cell, that request for agreement was sent again by mail on 16 December 2020. The budgetary table containing the information on unit prices does not explicitly state the obligation of confidentiality, but it goes without saying that contracts concluded between the European Commission and third parties will only be made public when the Commission gives its consent. The Belgian law on public administration also provides that interests in federal international relations are grounds for refusing to disclose governance. That is my first element of answer to several questions. Secondly, the purchase contracts have been concluded between the European Commission and the firms. National representatives in the European decision-making and advisory bodies have been kept to such secrecy and have signed a confidentiality clause. The leading official of the FAGG has signed that clause. The federal government wishes to abide by our country's international obligations. The confidentiality, which is the subject of the three interviews, is part of this. You cannot therefore expect me to open a debate on the prices and costs of vaccines here and now as Minister of Health. After we have fought the crisis in the best possible way, that debate will of course take place. The European Commission itself has already indicated that the requested transparency will be provided later, after the negotiations. This will be done as soon as the Commission gives its consent. Thirdly, with regard to the contacts between my cabinet and the Secretary of State for the Budget, I can confirm that one of my staff responded as quickly as possible to the fact that it was confidential information when the report was adopted on social media. This was done solely on the basis of the loyalty in the federal government, between colleagues and their policy cells. Fourthly, as far as the possible consequences for our country and the federal state are concerned, I have received no mention of an initiative by the European Commission with regard to Belgium. My services also received no response from the companies concerned. Fifthly, I would like to respond to Mrs Merckx's more specific questions, our country, like the other Member States, contributed to a European emergency instrument, the Emergency Support Instrument or ESI. This European fund is financed on the basis of the European budget. However, the share of the ESI budget reserved for vaccines, EUR 2.15 billion, was clearly insufficient. That is why an additional contribution of EUR 750 million from the Member States was needed and negotiated. Belgium has effectively contributed 25 million to the fund, as part of the additional 750 million needed. This was used to finance the advance purchase agreements, which were intended to safeguard the production of the vaccines. That brings me to the question of risk sharing. A risk sharing is foreseen whereby the production risk of the producers, who were asked to start production as soon as possible, was taken over by the public authorities, collectively organised by the European Commission. It is only part of the risk, of course, because there is also a risk inherent in the scientific research itself. Of course, this has not been taken over by the governments. We need to debate this in depth later, but I think there is some logic in that. One asks to start producing, at a time when it is not yet known whether there will be an authorisation to enter the market, and so there is a pre-financing, including risk sharing. This is part of the entire contractual negation set up by the European Commission. We can discuss this on the substance later, but I wanted to give it to you now. You are asking a number of very important questions about the availability of vaccines for the entire world population, including those who are poorer than us. Important initiatives have been taken at the level of the World Health Organisation, including ACT-A, which includes COVAX. I can give you more details about COVAX, but I think you know that. This important initiative should make it possible for large groups of the world population to have access to several of the promising candidate vaccines, some of which have already been approved. 190 countries participate in COVAX. At least 1.3 billion doses, funded by donors, will be delivered to 92 countries that meet the conditions for co-operation in COVAX. That's important. The European Commission and Belgium have supported this. There will also be a debate on the possibility of making in-kind donations of vaccines possible through this initiative, which would enable poorer population groups in the world to access vaccines quickly. Moreover, in Europe there are solidarity mechanisms in favour of neighbouring countries, for whom it is less obvious or who do not have the same economic capacity as we do with vaccination. Madam President, so far there have been a number of elements of the answers to the questions put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u96	I thought Secretary of State De Bleeker was a novelty, but that less than half your time, Minister, is absolutely historic. That might be a good idea, but I think it has another reason. You know that the safest thing to do is to stay here with the text measured and pre-written by your services. Your classic wide-rangingness would create risks that you wanted to avoid in this regard. You need to do this more, do it in half the time. But it was striking. It's not your custom, and I don't think you're gonna change your life. We will see that in the next few weeks. I think you know what very slippery ice you have had to skate on here today. That's why every word was chosen and measured. Allow me to have a bad character, because on 17 December you made a bit of a fool of me by giving the impression that you were absolutely ignorant of the state of that tweet. You say now, and that will be typed in your text: 'I have not received any notification from the Commission, my services have not received any notification from producers'. I do not rule out the fact that you have received a notification from producers and that your services have received a notification from the Commission. Your words will undoubtedly have been worked out very carefully, and you will come out of the dance, for you have not preached falsehood. Anyway, I shall be naive and assume that you really meant it as: we have not had any consequences. Surely you have made it quite clear here that the Secretary of State has clearly violated a confidentiality clause and that your government does not really want to do so. You have not answered the question as to what action this has taken in terms of reputational damage. Mr Pas, I do not pay excessive attention to this either, but I assume that the government considers this to be important. In all seriousness, that also has its consequences. We should not get over it too easily. Mr Vandenbroucke, I am still hungry for the reason why you were stupid here on 17 December, why you did not intervene then, why you let Parliament go home. I know it was late, but you're always sharp. By the way, you weren't here as long as the Secretary of State. In the motion I shall be tabling, I shall have the House condemning it, because this is not a minor fact. I repeat, it is not a small fact that you have misinformed us. I do not often agree with the Members of the PVDA, but I also note that a socialist in this government has silenced a liberal. That is a remarkable fact. One might think that, when it comes to big pharma, the liberals would just control the socialists a little bit. However, there has been a change of roles here. Minister Vandenbroucke, this lack of transparency has harmed this Parliament before. Two of my group's colleagues, Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Depoorter, you know them, because they are particularly active in accessing administrative documents from the Commission, with regard to receiving information from Sciensano and the FAGG, have been confirmed that the refusal to give information to Parliament is contrary to the Constitution. I quote: "Article 32 of the Constitution and the Law of 11 April 1994 uphold in principle the right of access to all administrative documents, except in very exceptional and justified circumstances." May I ask you to ask these services as a matter of urgency, please see it as a Wiedergutmachung to follow the advice of that committee and to provide the information requested as soon as possible. There is no breach of any confidentiality clause. I ask you to instruct them to inform Parliament fully and transparently, in particular Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Depoorter. That is the least that can happen in this very invigorating affair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u97	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your concise but clear answer. You've given us a number of important things. First of all, you confirmed that it was confidential information that was disclosed on Twitter, and that it was for that reason that your employee asked your colleague in the government to remove the tweet. You can't blame me for having no experience with Cabinets. You have explained how it works with requests for approval and so on. You've given specific dates. The first request for agreement came on 11 December 2020 and then one by mail on 16 December 2020. That is the day on which we were engaged in the budget discussions. That's the Wednesday the Secretary of State referred to. Is it standard that a request for an agreement is made twice, or is it still done that Wednesday at the explicit request of the Secretary of State? You may contradict me if that is not the case, but I assume you did not know that the confidential information would be made public at the time when it was requested by the Secretary of State. After all, you confirmed that your employee asked you to remove the tweet. Unfortunately, you have not answered the question about the potential consequences, the potential sanctions and the risk that we have run. We remain completely in the dark about this. You replied that you received no notification from the companies and from the European Commission. However, I specifically asked if there have been any reactions from other countries and Member States. This does not necessarily go through the European Commission. After all, countries are still involved in the contract. You didn't answer that. I understand Mr De Roover's concern. You have undoubtedly disappointed a large number of European partners. I imagine you're not comfortable with that. After all, the current government is running very high with the European Union and with the agreements. It is therefore not nice that you do not make a very good impression there. This afternoon we talked about a Deputy Prime Minister who is putting other countries in a bad light about the quality of vaccines. The Prime Minister didn't even answer it. He's gonna let that happen. Of course, such matters do not make you a reliable partner if you still want to make agreements with those other countries and Member States in the future. I am convinced that the fact that confidential data is being thrown on the pavement, even though perhaps it is not given any indication of this today, does not immediately have legal consequences for our country, in terms of reliability in our partner countries will not have gone unnoticed, despite the fact that one always likes to play the best in the class. You've let them down. I will also console you with the words I used with Secretary of State De Bleeker: you have not disappointed your own constituents, because you have none.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u98	Mr Minister, there is a major problem today: the covid pandemic. There is also a really unusual situation in Europe: there is a vaccine and normally there is negotiation when a medicine comes on the market, but here that information is kept secret. You also confirm that we are carrying the whole risk, and there is also the problem of access to the vaccine, in Europe and the rest of the world. What should also be known is that the whole Parliament, from the nationalists, the separatists, the socialists, the liberals to the ecologists, defending secrecy about the big pharma. If I have understood you correctly, there will be transparency. You promised that, but it will come after the crisis. We need this transparency to resolve the crisis, Minister, in Belgium, in Europe and throughout the world. It is only in this way that we can have universal access to vaccines for the whole population and that we can put an end to the pandemic. We do not need charity, but universal access. I would have expected a socialist like you to deal with this differently, to have a different discourse and to stand up for transparency, to show your teeth and stand up for the weak and for universal access. Instead, I have heard a speech that you are raving about, in which you say that everything will be discussed later. No, we don't need that after the crisis. It's the only way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u99	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Whereas the contracts for vaccines against covid-19 are not transparent, whereas the Belgian Government and the European Commission refuse Members of Parliament any right of control over contracts and this is contrary to their duty of justification; - Whereas citizens bear a very large proportion of public investment in research, development and expansion of production capacity and financial risk; - Whereas the European Commission maintains its risk reduction strategy by transferring the risk of investment from a large company to the public authorities; - Whereas citizens are subject to a total lack of transparency since they are not allowed to know the price they pay precisely for vaccines; - Whereas transparency would make it possible to lower prices since the public authorities could thus negotiate a price reduction; - Whereas it appears from a public survey carried out by Sciensano on Belgium's covid-19 policy that it is essential that the vaccination policy be fully transparent; asks the government - to be fully transparent and to allow access to the original documents relating to the covid-19 vaccine delivery agreements concluded between the European Commission, Member States and producers; - to make clear the legal responsibilities, public investment, total vaccine prices and revenues generated by vaccine producers." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Barbara Pas and Mrs Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - whereas the contracts relating to the COVID-19 vaccines are not transparent, that the Belgian Government and the European Commission refuse any understanding of the contracts and that this is contrary to their accountability; - whereas the population bears a very large share of public investment in research, development, expansion of production capacity and financial risk; - whereas the European Commission is pursuing a 'de-risk' strategy, i.e. transferring the investment risk from the large enterprise to the public sector; - whereas a total lack of transparency prevents the population from knowing exactly what price it is paying for vaccines; - whereas transparency should ensure lower prices, as this would allow public authorities to negotiate the price downwards; - whereas a survey of the population of Sciensano on the Belgian COOVID-19 policy shows that full transparency in vaccination policy is essential; calls on the Government - to ensure full transparency and access to the original documents relating to the COOVID-19 vaccine agreements between the European Commission, the Member States and producers; - to provide full clarity on liability, public investment, total prices of vaccines, and revenues for vaccine producers.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr. Peter De Roover and Mrs. Barbara Pas and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health during the current affairs debate on 16 December 2020 in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities; - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health and the Secretary of State for the Budget during the plenary session of 17 December 2020; - in view of the fact that, in the meantime, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, in his statement of 17 December 2020, provided inaccurate information to the House, a reprehensible practice that must be firmly condemned; - in view of the publication and withdrawal of the tweet by the Secretary of State for the Budget concerning the price of vaccines against coronavirus and the quantities ordered; - in view of the deterioration of Belgium's brand image as a reliable partner of the industry; - in view of the possible mistrust with our European partners; asks the government - to always inform Parliament promptly, correctly and precisely and to avoid any incorrect statements such as that made on 17 December 2020 by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health; - always ensure full transparency on contracts signed, within the limits of contractual clauses; - to ensure that members of the Government manage confidential information professionally and that it is communicated exclusively to the competent persons; - to always respect all the agreements concluded within the framework of the European initiative, in order not to undermine the reputation of this country as a reliable European partner; - to organise consultations with the sector concerned in order to allow the further development of Flanders and Wallonia as regions with a strong presence of the pharmaceutical sector; - to share, if the contract so permits, the clause relating to the confidentiality of vaccine prices." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Peter De Roover and Mrs Barbara Pas and Mrs Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health during the Actua debate of 16 December 2020 in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities; - having heard the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health and the State Secretary for Budget at the plenary session of 17 December 2020; - having regard to the fact that, in the meantime, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health have misinformed the Chamber of Representatives of 17 December 2020, which is reprehensible and should be strongly condemned; - having regard to the publication and withdrawal of the tweet by the Secretary of State for the Budget on the price of corona vaccines and the quantities ordered, - having regard to the image damage suffered by this country as a reliable partner of the business world; - having regard to the mistrust that may result from this in our European partners; calls on the Government - to keep Parliament informed quickly, accurately and accurately and to avoid any incorrect statements such as those made by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health of 17 December 2020; - ensure full transparency on contracts entered into as far as possible, - ensuring that confidential information is handled professionally within the government and that it is only in the hands of competent authorities; - to keep to all agreements within the framework of a European initiative, so as not to harm the reputation of this country as a reliable European partner; - to consult the sector concerned so that Flanders and Wallonia can develop further as regions with a strong presence of the pharmaceutical sector; - share the confidentiality clause on the prices of vaccines where this is contractually possible.' A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten et Kristof Calvo. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Kristof Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u100	Madam Chair, it is clear that we are going to ask for urgency on this motion, as six group leaders signed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u101	Mrs De Block, is there also an urgent need for the previous motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u102	Yes, Madam President. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u103	Madam President, I shall stick to the speaking time of a maximum of ten minutes. Madam Secretary, "an evening with a high risk of excesses" and "partys getting out of hand," you predicted the New Year's Night in Brussels during the VTM news on 27 December. I wonder whether you, me or anyone else, when we drink too much on New Year's Eve, then light cars, tram stops and street furniture on fire or start throwing molotov cocktails. I don't think so. What we are going through over and over again in Brussels is not an out-of-control New Year's parties, it is not even a matter of ordinary street crime. They are violent and often armed riots by non-integrated immigrants. Yes, I will continue to mention that problem, because as long as we do not dare to do so, we will not be able to deal with it effectively. Everyone knew this was gonna happen. You and I knew it and every Brusselser knew it as well. Yet on New Year's Eve, arsonists and rioters were able to indulge in vandalism and violence. The Brussels police also knew and prepared themselves as well as they could. However, it should not benefit. I have tried to draw up a list based on what I have read in the media and you will soon be able to correct or supplement it, but the list is no less: 55 times the fire department was called for burning street furniture; 75 times the ambulances of the Brussels fire department had to pull out. Three buses, two trams and two tram stops were destroyed. Two cars and two scooters went up in flames in Brussels-North. Two cars burned out in Brussels-West. Three cars burned out in Marlow zone and in Brussels-South no less than eleven cars were set on fire. 528 times the police had to intervene and 209 people were arrested. Madam Secretary, these are hallucinatory figures and not at all, as I sometimes read here and there, a failure diverse, or the result of a quiet night. Madam Secretary, I have the greatest respect for the firefighters, for our emergency services, but also for our policemen who are faced with these situations. If Brussels politics does not agree on a tough and correct approach in Brussels and if the police people do not feel supported by the Brussels potentials, then it is high time you put your house in order. How many more cars have to burn out before anything is done? How many more wounded firefighters and policemen are needed before the perpetrators are really properly dealt with? Madam Secretary, in the Anglo-Saxon world people sometimes talk about the thin blue line. It's that thin, blue line of our police force floating between anarchist chaos and a safe society. As Minister of the Interior, you are the prime minister to ensure that that thin blue line is guarded. It has been a difficult year, not only for the citizen, but certainly for our policemen. They are increasingly accused and faced with accusations of racism and discrimination. They must implement sometimes confusing and inappropriate corona measures. They are often confronted with violence against which they are hardly allowed or dared to defend themselves, because they do not have the necessary measures to do what they need to do, because they do not have the necessary resources, because they fear persecution if they use violence: in short, because they are not supported by politics. So make sure, Madam Secretary, that our policemen get the resources this year, that they get the trust and that they get the support they deserve. However, the crime problem we are discussing today is not limited to New Year's Eve. It has become a structural problem that requires a structural approach. It appears not only in our capital city Brussels but also more and more in other cities. They all have a right to good governance and safe streets. Madam Minister, I therefore call on you to take responsibility and, as a driving force, to work out a plan of action with your Brussels colleagues. They often lack the will to cooperate, the will to merge and courage. I'm counting on you to have those qualities. Madam Minister, as a member of our constructive party, I would like to make a few suggestions. Under academic impulse, there is much to be done about the so-called predictive policing in political rings these days. In other words, we are going to predict where and when crime could occur. In this particular case it was not difficult, almost everyone could predict that crime would occur in Brussels on the night of 31 December on 1 January. It was particularly about arson and vandalism, as was the case every New Year's Eve of the past decade. Predictive policing, however, also applies in many other situations. There is therefore a need for a sensible policy that dares to anticipate the predictability of criminals and rioters. They are, after all, predictable. A second suggestion is in line with that, because it concerns surveillance, camera surveillance, control and supervision. Madam Secretary, place automatic registration plate recognition and surveillance at the entrances and exits of problematic neighbourhoods and squares in Brussels. Also in camera surveillance the shoe wrings. Even Brussels politics does not agree to transfer the cameras from one police zone to another. There is a need for a tough and effective repressive policy. Repression means providing weather. Repression means drawing lines and setting examples, so that the facts do not lead to even more imitation. The leaders of those street gangs are known, they must be endorsed and arrested. Some criminals and rioters know only one language, the language they speak themselves, the harsh language. Those incorrigible figures will therefore only respect the authorities if they are allowed to use correct but firm and firm law enforcement. One of the pitfalls that I mentioned during your policy statement is that police officers are afraid to be prosecuted themselves when they defend themselves or act against violence. It shouldn't be. Make sure we have sufficient legal protection for our agents. The Brussels politicians have put the opposite on the table, namely the establishment of a kind of satisfaction inquiry to see whether the police have done their job properly and whether the customer, the rioter in this case, was satisfied with the approach taken by these policemen. That's not what we need at all. The fear must change camp. Take care of the necessary people and resources. I've come to ask you my questions. Can you confirm the facts cited? How do you evaluate the approach of the different Brussels police zones? Is it a matter of swift justice for the perpetrators who have been apprehended? Will there be bourgeois parties for the damage done to the public domain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u104	Madam President, I would like to ask a favor. I have two interplays, one for the Minister of Justice and one for the Minister of the Interior, but in fact they are mixed up. I'd like to speak once. Mr Van Quickenborne will probably hear that too. I would like to have five to six minutes for the interplay, instead of two times five minutes, because then I have to return again. That's not funny, and that's not interesting either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u105	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u106	There are still certainties in the country, Madam Secretary. One of these guarantees is that fireworks will be fired in Brussels on New Year's Eve. If that is not allowed in the air, we do it in the street and we do it horizontally. My colleague has just quoted some figures. I will confine myself to facts of recovery. You're already amazed. Well, last year 22 cars were torched and this year only 20. That's getting better. 211 people were arrested last year and only 209 this year. But last year there was also one younger than 13 years old. There is also some certainty about the reactions, ma'am. Indeed, the reactions, which are the same, are already a tradition. Let me begin with the reaction of local politicians. They always minimize the looting and also the arsonists. Last year the Mayor of Molenbeek, Mrs Moureaux, found that burning trash cans is the fireworks of the disadvantaged. This year the annual feast of dead souls, with about 500 interventions by the police, is called euphemistically standard incidents by our policy makers. They have become so common that they are called standard incidents. Then there are the ministers, including yourself, ma'am. They always preach zero tolerance and call for all perpetrators to be adequately punished and for more blue to come on the streets. In the meantime, we also know that rapid justice in Brussels means that the revolving door criminals will be home soon and will soon be released again. I brought you a fantastic essay, ma'am. It is a page long and is titled "Emergency Cries from the Capital." It's the analysis of a Brussels street cop. It was written by a police officer who has 16 years of experience in the Brussels ghettos. He has made a sharp analysis of the policy of dealing with crime that has been going on in the capital for 30 years. I will confine myself to a few passages from there. Unfortunately, the book wasn't published. If as a policeman one dares to say that 90% of criminals have a migration background, then of course no one from the politically correct world will publish that and thus risk being accused of xenophobia, racism or Islamophobia. I got my hands on it, and as a result of the incidents, I want to make it clear what's going on with these people. Let me quote a few sentences from the analysis. "All city gangs have been mapped since 1999 and the police have a database in which all gang members are registered. There's plenty of blue on the street. With 2,200 souls, the police force of Brussels-Capital is large enough to deal with the violence orgies. Only the common cop feels abandoned by his superiors, by lack of persecution and by the inadequate punishments that follow a sporadic sentence. The police leadership craves first of all the approval of looking away politicians, who do not want to put too much pressure on their new ethnic electoral audience. She is more concerned with protecting her own politically correct reputation than protecting the public. Avoiding a racial conflict goes beyond all considerations, including the well-being, security and protection of citizens. It's a capitulation for the street. The politicians who were largely elected by their ethnic electoral audience are doing their utmost to muzzle the police and to keep the criminal boys as little as possible in the way as possible. The police can pick up as many of the perpetrators as they want, it's the law they have to punish, and that's one of the capital's biggest problems. There is a great contrast between the Dutch language and the French language parquet of Brussels. At the French-speaking parquet, impunity is a trump card. Meanwhile, the city is full of young people of foreign, mostly Moroccan origin, from around 20 years old, who are known for more than 20 facts and who have all been imprisoned together for less than a week. For example, we pass on arrested young criminals through the radio room for facts of drug possession, possession of weapons, five counts of burglary, defamation, violence against government individuals, deliberate destruction and rapes. Response of the parquet: no action to be taken. The relationship between policemen and the vast majority of the Brussels magistrate is totally sour. Pamper policy, impunity and the laxity of the parquet is directly responsible for maintaining the current situation. There is no capacity in the closed institutions and the open facilities are worthless. The measures imposed will never be punished if they are already subject to controls. Another particularly difficult point is police control and, above all, the magnifying glass which makes it watched daily. If a policeman is spit in full corona times, the perpetrator can always count on the court's condolences. Organisations such as Committee P and the General Inspection closely examine any movement made during an intervention. Decisions to be taken under high voltage are analysed for hours by people who have never set foot in the field." (Protests from Mr Piedboeuf) I have been given a ten-minute speaking time, Mr Piedboeuf, for my two interplays. I asked. But you were late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u107	Please continue, Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u108	I quote further: "The policeman who mistook and after the umpteenth intervention gives a blow too much and the bad luck of a miserable person has filmed this, risks losing his job. A criminal who has sold a policeman a death trap, with apologies for the delay of the court, comes with the acquittal. The daily reality, unfortunately. In November 2017, Koen Geens, then Minister, stated that a letter was sent that states that violence against the police should not be dismissed. We are three years away and I hear the Minister of Justice say the same thing. So far, almost nothing has happened." I quote from an essay that I will hand over to you, Madam Secretary, but I will conclude and leave you to the floor. In doing so, I held my two interviews, one addressed to the Minister of the Interior, the other to the Minister of Justice. I will not repeat them, but I will deliver them to you in writing, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u109	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can and may say that in recent years the Brussels office has been waiting with fear for New Year's Eve and night. The question that arises today is no longer whether there will be incidents, but how much, how heavy and to what extent a cat-and-mouse game will be played with our law enforcement services. Unfortunately, that has become a fact, a fixed fact. Despite the curfew, which enters Brussels at 10 p.m. as a corona measure, some riots and arsons took place during New Year's Eve. The police had to perform a total of 528 interventions. Given the limited number of hours in which that was possible, it is converted into two interventions per minute, please. Not bad. Within the time a commander needs to respond to an intervention, the next one is flying in. Amazing. More than 25 vehicles were set on fire and a lot of street furniture. The fire department had to pull out for three house fires. According to STIB three buses, two trams and two tram stops were also damaged. In the end, 184 persons were apprehended administratively and 25 were apprehended. That cannot and must not be banished. Figures say something, but since I come from a scientific nest, I would also like to compare them with other European cities, to find out what happened there under the same corona measures. It appears that there have been no significant events in most European cities. Left and right are always small riots, no problem. In large cities such as Berlin, Amsterdam and Paris, where something happens regularly, nothing really happened. Only Strasbourg stands out because 60 vehicles were set on fire there. The fact that Brussels is back in the head of the list of such facts is not really to be proud of. We know that the various police areas of Brussels have decided to work with a unit of command on New Year's Eve and Night in order to be able to act quickly and efficiently. In other words, the chief of police could direct all Brussels police officers and also distribute video footage between the zones. The whole situation makes this even more poignant. So it would have been much worse in times without corona, without a unified command and without a curfew. Too bad, but true. The previous years are an example of this. Despite the above information, the Commissioner from the Brussels-South police area is talking about a much quieter New Year's Eve than other years. I think that's horrible. We just hit the images and news coverage of the New Year's Eve riots every year. The Commissioner is no longer looking at 528 interventions, numerous car arsonists, street furniture and homes, damage to trams and buses. Is this the new normal? Is this where we want to go? I don't think so. Can we accept this? I don't think so. That's why I have the following questions. Can you confirm the figures on the number of interventions and persons arrested or were they updated? How many CVs were drafted and for what criminal offences? How many arrested persons were individually found to be in violation of the corona measures? Was there violence against emergency and order services? If so, how many? In the past, you said that you were going to be a bourgeois party to violence against law enforcement. Have you done that yet? Not unimportant in the whole story, a lot of destruction has happened, has an estimate of cost been made? Who's gonna pay for that? Is the unit of command between the different Brussels police zones evaluated? If so, how? Is this process being considered at other times? Or do you hope this tastes more like a single police zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u110	Madam President, I heard here tonight that there are certainties and a number of predictability. That certainty and predictability apply equally to me, if I may say so, to the content of some of the interpretations. Mr Dedecker, I have also noticed that most of the quotes from that unpublished publication relate to prosecution. My colleague, the Minister of Justice, is also here tonight. The end of the year and the end of the year were indeed less busy than the previous years. Mrs Goethals, I do not quite understand why you are getting excited about a statement by the Chief Constable in that regard, which is simply making a determination. It is not because it is quieter that there is leave in itself or a lack of sadness about what has happened. Of course, that lesser fuss will be due to the curfew. Nevertheless, there were a number of incidents. You've already repeated the numbers. I can confirm them. There were 528 calls together. It was 101 calls that weren't all violent or corona-related. There were also regular 101 calls within the Brussels-Capital Region. I would very much like to emphasise here that every incident is obviously too much. Setting fire to cars or destroying street furniture without any reason is reprehensible. Intentional harm to private or public heritage is unacceptable. No matter how frustrated people are because of the application of the corona measures, violence or deliberate destruction can never be the answer. It is our duty to take firm action against the other inhabitants. Therefore, contrary to what you claim, I have not been able to establish that there is someone who banishes the facts or who does not rely on the seriousness of the situation. We must, of course, continue to address the problem. There are several aspects to this approach. You can play your part in this, but I would nevertheless like to stress that the preventive aspect remains important. There are several elements of importance. Several initiatives have already been taken, which we have yet to improve, strengthen and deepen. For example, reducing the distance between the police and young people is something that we need to work on. That is not something that is only done in Belgium. It also happens abroad, to ensure that the distance decreases. We must also continue to work on changing citizens' attitudes towards the police. We cannot accept the lack of legitimacy of the police in the minds of a number of people. We have to fight that and we have to bet on it. In doing so, we need to adopt a target group approach and see how we can improve this as soon as possible. Every citizen of this country must know that violence, especially against police and emergency services, will never be accepted and that this will lead to strict enforcement. We have taken a number of initiatives recently to tackle violence against the police and emergency services more effectively and more quickly. In addition to the preventive hatch, the repressive hatch is also important. This falls into two parts. Firstly, the police must be equipped to deal with incidents and incidents of violence. It must have modern resources. I have already answered a number of questions about this in committee and in this House. The police must be able to be equipped with real life information, including through the further roll-out of FOCUS to ensure that they can get on the ground very quickly and assess the extent and nature of incidents. Mr Depoostere, you questioned whether there was sufficient resources, sufficient trust and sufficient support for the police and emergency services. I don't know what that question is. We have already discussed that up to 50 million more is being invested in the police force this year and that more is being invested in the fire department, including the recruitment of 1,600 effectives. This is precisely to ensure that these police effectivenesss can be strengthened. The confidence and support I can confirm, for myself, 100 %. I don't see what you're talking about with this question. In your speech, however, I found your reference to placing cameras and, without doubt, following a number of individuals on the street. Not so long ago, your President spoke to me here in Parliament about drones and about unjustified damage to the privacy of a number of people by certain control techniques. In this context, you seem to have no problem putting cameras anywhere to track a number of people. In other circumstances, this is apparently a much more difficult matter. You will explain to me whether this privacy should apply to you with two sizes and two weights. Of course, we must use technological means, but that must always be proportionate and respectful of other fundamental and fundamental rights, which we all care so much about. As far as the repressive part is concerned, the police must, of course, remain well trained and trained. We therefore continue to invest in training and training of police officers for interventions. These training offers are also tailored to experience, to changing crime, to reality in the field. That's definitely something that's being taken. Finally, and I am talking about that, the police must be very well organized. Among other things, the gold commando of the police is important. Mrs Goethals, I heard you say, "What would it have been without the GOLD command?" If you say such things, I don't quite understand what the problem is. The GOLD command has not been there since this year, but has also been there in recent years. It shall be adjusted and adjusted where necessary, on the basis of evaluations. That seems to me to be something we can agree on. Finally, on the repressive side, the third part. The final piece of enforcement is, of course, prosecution and follow-up by the public prosecutor and by the courts. We have taken a number of initiatives together there, and I am confident that Mr Van Quickenborne will take very strong and adequate action there too, with all the appropriate means we know in the prosecution policy. We cannot guarantee, and I sometimes wonder if you could do that, that there would be no more incidents in the future. I also note, Mrs Goethals, that when it comes to foreign affairs, you call it riots. I don't know if there are two sizes and two weights there either. We can never guarantee that there will be no incidents, not even on New Year's Eve, but we can guarantee that we will do everything we can to act decisively and forcefully on the basis of all the shutters I just mentioned, because violence can never be the answer and can never be accepted. I will come back to your questions about New Year's Eve in Brussels. I don't think you really doubted it, but I didn't hear any facts in your interviews that the police and the emergency services were well prepared; I can confirm that. I myself went on the spot to see how everything was aligned to prepare for New Year's Eve at the regional crisis centre. All the services involved were there, the security and emergency services, to make those preparations. High-tech means are also used: television screens and the rapid exchange of information by different services. I can tell you with great confidence that there has been a real 100% commitment to preparing this New Year's Eve as well as possible. It may be said that this is normal, but given the nature of your interventions, it may be necessary to confirm this. Nor have I experienced any indulgence in the action of the police and the emergency services. The interviews also referred to last year, but I was able to see that this year. Under that unit of command, 560 additional policemen were deployed for law enforcement, a reassuring operative. Of course, this will be evaluated and considered whether lessons should be drawn from this New Year period for the future. People are therefore responding to changing realities. Mrs Goethals, I am pleased to confirm that the GOLD structure with unit of command is also systematically used for other large-scale events within the Brussels-Capital Region in order to coordinate the different police zones. The first evaluation of those events and New Year's Eve shows that that GOLD command structure allows rapid and coordinated police intervention. That is exactly what we want to achieve. Through the multidisciplinary crisis centre, the police, the emergency medical services and the fire department were present all day and night in order to ensure that law enforcement functions as effectively as possible, under the direction of the administrative and judicial authorities. So much for the organization. As I said, there were actual incidents. Unfortunately, 25 vehicles have been set on fire again and street furniture has been damaged in several places. We must, of course, condemn and tackle this. I cannot yet give you the exact cost of that damage, which is still being mapped out. However, this is certainly being followed. In addition, 188 persons were held administratively and 28 persons were held judicially. Last year 185 persons were arrested administratively and 26 persons were arrested. Several judicial minutes were drawn up. These were infringements such as destruction and the throwing of objects. There were also minutes that contained interventions 101 that are not linked to those specific incidents related to New Year's Eve. 237 people were banished in that night due to violations of corona measures. Those minutes were, of course, forwarded to the King's Attorney, who will have to give the appropriate follow-up. Six people were arraigned before the King's Attorney. With regard to the final judicial decision in those files, you will not be surprised that I have to refer you to my colleague in the Justice Department and to the Public Prosecutor. Two local police officers were lightly wounded, no one was hospitalized. You also asked about the violence against police officers. On the basis of the initial results of the judicial investigations, it will be examined on a case-by-case basis whether and when a civil party arrangement is adequate, in consultation with the policeman or woman concerned. We have already emphasized that this bourgeois partying should not result in a delay in proceedings or a restriction on the right of rapid action. This is being followed up and the intention we have expressed here can be confirmed. As far as the local policemen are concerned, I understand that it's under consideration to do that bourgeois standoff. This will be considered on a case-by-case basis, both by the local police zones and by the federal police. Further investigation of these incidents will have to show whether or not they were organised in the context of prosecution. I am surprised to note that gangs that have been known to the public for many years are clearly referred to here. One cannot make accusations for those that have been established. This is also part of the rule of law. On the basis of the initial findings, it is not an organised framework or the fact that street gangs are linked to it, but, once again, it must be noted that these are individual cat-and-mouse actions, mostly in small groups and mostly spread throughout the territory. The ongoing investigations will thus show whether they can be effectively linked to urban gangs, but as I said, there is no indication of this. Another important point concerning police action, not only on New Year's Eve, but also at other times: there is indeed a very proactive examination of whether the troublemakers exchange information via social media. On this basis, it will be possible to proceed proactively. That has happened even now. That real-time information was tracked and allowed the police to move quickly and act quickly. It's because of that that those incidents were quickly controlled. Here too, it is important to establish that adequate action is needed with the use of new information tools and technologies. During this period, a number of debriefings are held, which is not novelty with the different disciplines, being the fire department, the police and urgent medical assistance, on the basis of the initial evaluations. It is too early to say anything about this, but the initial evaluations show that this coordinated and multidisciplinary approach has worked well. As I said earlier, it will be decided whether the operative part made available and the way in which it has been worked can be adapted, improved and strengthened in the future. By the way, I also noticed on a visit on 24 December that the changes to the operative part of 2019 have indeed been implemented and thus learned. I also want to protect you from unrealistic expectations when you talk about more blue in the street. Even if the operative and the police are doubled, misconduct can never be completely prevented. If you have the magical solution to make any form of violence impossible at all times, I assume you would have come up with it a long time ago. I assume that you would not keep that kind of magical solution in your pocket but would like to share it with us, in order to ensure that we can work as efficiently and effectively as possible. In my policy statement and here in Parliament, I have already made a number of proposals to ensure that we can tackle violence against the police and improve the relationship between young people and police. We must be committed to trust and mutual respect, not only for the police, but also for the police. That is something I will continue to work on in the coming weeks and months. I will put my shoulders on all the initiatives and projects that support that. I accept with great confidence and satisfaction that we will be able to discuss this on a number of occasions in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u111	Madam Minister, (...) is playing in our capital city and in other cities too, then that is not out of the blue, Madam Minister. The predictability of our questions is not due to the fact that we like to stand here and ask questions, but because these facts have happened in our capital. Madam Secretary, you are playing in two areas. You are playing in the preventive field. You once again emphasize the need to reduce the distance between young people and the police. I think that the time for such soft measures should be finally over. We don't need tea parties anymore. We must go back to a more repressive, tougher approach. The preventive part should not disappear completely, you will not hear me say that, but the pendulum has gone a little too far. I'm not the only one who feels that way either. If you visit the police regularly, as you say, you should listen to the practice on the ground in the streets and neighbourhoods of Brussels and other cities. The fact that arrested young criminals are released the same day or the next day is mop-up with the crane open. This is demotivating for our police services and it does not in any way guarantee security in Brussels and other cities. You are trying to drive a wedge between me and my party chairman with regard to the use of drones and the use of camera images in sensitive places in Brussels. This is a very big difference, Madam Minister, the use of drones to observe family parties in corona times or the use of camera images in crime-prone places, as there are unfortunately many in Brussels. I did not say at all, Madam Secretary, that you would not invest resources in our police and security services. It should still be missing. I merely said that you must remain vigilant in this matter. It is not because you are now announcing 50 million in investment, that this can be enough to put a definitive stop to crime in our cities, in Brussels. You also tried to insinuate that the other questioner and we would have no appreciation for the police. You have listened very badly to me. I have started by expressing my thanks to our police services, our security services and also our aid workers for the work they have to do in some very difficult circumstances. No, Madam Secretary, there is no magical solution. I don't have it in my pocket either. But I do want the rifle to be changed from shoulder to shoulder. I do want a different approach, a political will to put a stop to crime. This can be done, and I have said this on several occasions - if you work well with your colleague, the Minister of Justice. There is a need for close cooperation between police, prosecutors, and courts. They must support each other's policies. Madam Minister, I will not table a motion at the moment, because I, like colleagues, would also like to hear the answer from the Minister of Justice, which is at least as important. My colleague, Mrs Bury, will ask him the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u112	Madam President, Minister, I am somewhat disappointed by the flou artistique and by the generalities you have just given me. I thought there'd be a new wind blowing. Madam Minister, you have accused me of referring to 2020. I did start with that, but that was somewhat cynical. After all, there is no improvement. You are indeed not responsible for the previous policy. However, the government is responsible for the continuation or improvement of that policy. I set that example. I also read from a street cop's essay. I didn't do more than that. I don't know if you've met these street cops a lot. I'll meet them more. After all, there are about 80 of them in my own municipality. They're desperate. They're tired of hearing the whirlwinds that they're gonna get more men. I've made it clear that no more men are needed. They say they don't need more men, but they need material. That's what they need. I will list what they are asking for later. After all, you have no magical solution, and I don't have any. However, I am not paid to provide a magical solution. The Home Secretary will be, and so will the police. I don't get paid for that. My job is to control the executive. We cannot control the judiciary because of the separation of powers in this country. However, that does not alter the fact that I am making comments on this matter. I also handed them over to the Minister of Justice. It's too bad. I would like to repeat my words, but I do not want to do it to the hemisphere that it should hear the same speech twice. Madam Secretary, you say there are solutions. There are indeed solutions and they are also in my commentary document. Let me give you an example of the VSOA. The former president of the police union, Jan Schonkeren, is telling us how things like in Brussels can be avoided. They can be avoided by the local politicians who have to take responsibility instead of pampering their people. Crime has grown because they have been pampering and pampering the population. You said something nice about the unit of command in those seven police zones. That's what happened. I hope they'll merge in the future, too. Mr Schonkeren says that young people can destroy what they want. With regard to last year, I would like to hear the number of convictions, the number of sentences served and the number of fines paid. In reality, no one has to pay. In Switzerland, for example, according to Mr Schonkeren, the law states that anyone who participates actively in riots or violence is responsible for the damage caused by it. So we could have things paid for by the arrested, but that is not happening in our country, because anyone who calls for them is being thrown out of line and as xenophobic or racist. That's how it goes. I haven't heard a clear statement here about who it is. Well, 90% are young people of North African, Maghrebian origin. However, that should not be put out loud, because it is called ethnic profiling. Thus, ethnically profiled criminal behavior is maintained. Dare to say it as it is; I expect it from a minister. It has nothing to do with xenophobia or Islamophobia, but it must not be said. Madam Minister, for magical solutions, I suggest that you go to the base and once to the people in the street, not to those who got some mayonnaise on their sleeve, ask what they want. I would like to give you my text on paper as well. It's actually about pretty small things, like body cameras. Policemen sometimes act in a state of stress and are constantly filmed, for example when police officers push back when they are facing a mass. Agents concerned should be prevented, monitored and possibly punished in the P Committee. Get the cops a fucking bodycam so they can film their gig. But no, it won't. Police dogs are kept out of the streets in Brussels. Guns like the flash-ball gun and teasers are all off limits. Crime, however, is growing. I am not making any comments here, because that is not my specialty. Well, I'm asking questions. It's almost an emergency call. I am also talking about impunity. I have already mentioned the difference between the Dutch language and the French language parquet. One parquet is populated by pamperers and the other parquet says that punishments can still be pronounced. All this stuff, that's what it's about. That is the essence of the debate. We have to see that. Now there are only generalities and politically correct sentences that say nothing, let alone put the finger on the wound. With statistics everything can be proven, because many people of two metres in size have already drowned in water of only half a metre deep. Look what's happening. See what the consequences are on the ground. This is a cry for help. These facts do not only show up in Brussels. Three months ago, the Minister of Justice said that a zero tolerance should be maintained. It has to be done. I quoted the example of Minister Geens in 2017 who said the same thing. He was talking about zero tolerance, including for violations against the police. Nothing's changed. I want to see that changed, or prove me wrong. I'd rather hear the opposite. Then go on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u113	Madam Minister, I have received many answers, but not all of my questions, but on the remaining questions I can still address you in committee. I am full of admiration, even wondering how calm you deal with the facts, but at the same time I am very concerned about your calmness. It worries me, because we know that the police were bombarded with fireworks on New Year's Eve in two different places. Why don't you explain that? There could have been deaths here. How can you stay calm about this? I don't understand. I have already said it in committee, but I would like to repeat it, because repetition helps. I have an incredible quote that everyone needs to hear: soft healers make stinking wounds. Our police and security services deserve more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u114	Madam President, may I add something else?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u115	No, it's done now. You have already been given too much speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u116	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motion was tabled. At the end of this discussion, the following motion was tabled. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten et Kristof Calvo. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Kristof Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u117	Madam President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but we are also calling for urgency for this simple motion. The vote on the motion will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motion will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u118	Madam President, it's a little tricky. It's twice the same questions. Minister Verlinden has already started walking, which I find very regrettable, because my question was actually partly a reply, partly a question. A lot of things have already been said about the facts that happened in New Year's Eve. It is also very poignant that I have to interperate the Minister on this, as is customary every year. We're looking at all the cases that happened there. Somehow Minister Verlinden thinks that's the new normal. She has said twice: I do not understand the problem. She was also laconic about the predictability of all the things that happened there. I find that very distressing. My colleague Depoostere used the word "destructive." I find it rather poignant that it is so laconical. She's talking about the preventive part. She says the distance between the police and those scumbags should be reduced. I find that all very woolly. I understand that the preventive part should not be completely abandoned, as my colleague says. However, when incendiary bombs are used in subways and cars are set on fire, the preventive part does not make much sense anymore and the distance between the police and those thugs should not be reduced. They want to give modern resources to the police. I agree. Following a number of city gangs is similar to drones above people's homes in New Year's Eve. What Mr Dedecker said is also very important. We see the city gangs have been mapped. We see there's a database. We see the police have been disillusioned. Mrs. Verlinden then says she doesn't notice any leave with the police. I read in every newspaper and I see in every television interview that the police unions are crying out for help. They say, "What more can we do if we arrest these people and they walk back into the street a day later?" That's how I get to the Justice Department part. Those parquets aren't just emptying out. I wouldn't like to work on a parquet either if I knew the laxity and rules I have to follow there. We see the difference between the Dutch language and the French language parquet. The Dutch-speaking parquet still wants to punish somewhere, which is completely non-existent in a French-speaking parquet. I have already questioned Mr Geens here several times about laundry lists of people with a criminal record of different pages that are not followed up. We see youth institutions that are overcrowded, so crapuul should simply be released. Mr Goethals says that we are actually not doing very well. I therefore found the comparison with the figures of other cities in Europe to be very good, where things are doing much better. Here, even with a lockdown, even with a curfew, we have very, very bad figures. Minister Verlinden said there are no magical solutions. Mr Dedecker replied that it is not up to us to do so, that we have a minister to pay for it. I think we have actually done a lot of work, but it is voted off again and again. I am thinking of a motion, for example on the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde, which had to be split up. Voted out. It was assumed that a kind of trial would take place and that not all that crapul ended up in Brussels and was just released again on the street. We see a motion by Mr Depoostere who wanted stricter penalties for actions against aid workers. Voted out. There are your magical solutions, nothing is being done about it! We also see my own motion on data retention legislation. However, I think it is important to retain the telephone records so that we can actually act repressively, which is so important for both ministers. Voted out. What else do we have to do when everything gets voted out of here? I'll come to the questions. We have already had the figures on administrative arrests and arrests. Let me go into that further. How many of the perpetrators were taken into custody? How many were released? How many were released under conditions? Please also provide details of the nationality of the offenders. Mr Dedecker has repeated this a number of times. These things cannot be said here, but 90% of those people are of ethnic origin. I want those numbers. Have you also heard of interventions where emergency services were simply attacked and set up? How many of the perpetrators were subpoenaed directly for corona violations? In time, it's a whole laundry list: throwing a fire bomb and not respecting a corona violation and curfew. Are we going to be punished for everything, or are we not going to be punished for everything? What concrete measures will you take to stop this kind of normalized practice, which your colleague is so laconically talking about? What budget will you pay off and how many extra staff will you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u119	Madam President, it is a pity that we have not been able to hold both debates together. After all, many facts have already been listed and questions answered and I do not want to repeat them. Minister, it is frustrating that last year, around the same time, I had to question Minister No-one about similar facts. I, too, am deeply indignant. We saw it coming and it was predictable, but while there are now also corona measures with curfew in place at 10 o'clock, it is all the worse to see that 528 interventions were required and 25 vehicles were set on fire. That's really not a small matter. It's certainly not about standard interventions. Such facts are unacceptable. I do not repeat the figures, but ask a few questions to get specific information from you, which Mrs Verlinden has not yet given. Justice has a very important role to play on the issue, it is the final piece and must therefore play briefly on the ball. The right to speed, which is also included in your government statement, is crucial in this respect. I am not referring to the speedy law by which the perpetrators are brought to court within 8 months, but really very quickly, so within a few days. It was the same in the law that was once approved but subsequently destroyed by the Constitutional Court. In the meantime, I have tabled a bill which sets the same deadlines, because that is the ideal situation. This should work quickly: the perpetrator is arrested and detained immediately, brought to court, and the penalties are also effectively enforced afterwards. After all, the latter is the final piece. Mr Minister, when you presented your policy paper to the committee, you stated explicitly, at least initially, that you would actually have all the punishments carried out. So we're curious. If justice cannot be punished and the result cannot be linked to an act, then, of course, we are creating a situation in which everything can and should and never have to be held back. I have a number of specific questions that have not yet been asked by colleagues. Can you confirm the number of persons arrested? Or was that figure updated in the meantime? How many minutes were written and for what criminal offences? How many of the arrested persons were stopped for violating the corona rules? In how many cases was a friendly settlement issued and for what amount? In what cases did a direct subpoena take place? Minister Verlinden did not answer the question of how many cases of violence against the aid and order services were involved. How many of the 25 persons who have been arrested are currently in remand? What were the terms for who was released? I read on Twitter that the people at shut-down lockdown parties in Antwerp received a subpoena in order to appear in court within the month. Is that also happening in Brussels? Have the persons concerned been subpoenaed there by means of the expeditious procedure? If not, what will you do to make that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your discussions. First of all, let there be no misunderstanding. I find it unacceptable, of course, for certain young people on New Year's Eve to be content to indulge in criminal irregularities in the streets of Brussels. I admit that this has indeed been happening for many years. That's right. It is happening not only in Brussels, but also in other cities in our neighbouring countries. I appreciate your intervention, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, but you also know and realise that this happened on the New Year's Eve when your party delivered the Minister of the Interior. I would like to remind you of New Year's Night 2017-2018, when more serious events took place. The police and firefighters were then pounded with stones. There was even an attempt to set fire to the police commissioner of Haren. You're all talking about riots. I have also listened carefully to you, Mr Dedecker. I will, of course, answer you later. However, I propose that we stick to the facts. The facts are that there were no riots that night or night. There were no organized confrontations between youth gangs or between gangs and the police. There weren't any. The CVs are clear on that. Well, there were vehicle arsons. That's right. There were public destructions. I know you're having a hard time with the facts, Mr Vermeersch. I know that very well. It is in Kortrijk, but also here. There were, of course, corona violations, but it is remarkable that Mrs Van Vaerenbergh asked the question that there was no violence against the police. One police officer was lightly wounded, but that wasn't due to physical violence against that cop. Those are the facts. May I hope that the recently decided zero tolerance for violence against the police is in the middle of something? I don't know. There have been hearings in Parliament on violence against the police, in which everyone has been addressed. That was in the summer of last year, I think. It showed that neither the police nor the public prosecutor are asking for the punishments to be further increased, Mrs Bury. Those sentences were increased a few years ago. The question was explicit: stop dismissing such facts because of a lack of capacity. Mr Dedecker, I would like to address you: you ask what is the difference between what Mr Geens said in 2017 and what is happening now. Well, I hope you followed it. We have explicitly amended the letter and said: firstly, no more dismissals when it comes to a lack of capacity; secondly, if someone goes beyond violence against the police, he is personally confronted with the prosecutor; and thirdly, if there is persecution, he must do so quickly. That is the decision we made in November. Of course, all the parquets are supposed to comply with that. That's the difference from a few years ago. We have indeed listened to what was asked. You're referring to the different police unions. They have also explicitly welcomed this. They have said that this is a very good step in politics. So yes, there is a difference in actions, and not just in words. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened is nevertheless unacceptable. I certainly do not want to banish that. Do you know that there are gang-related arson charges of between 3 and 10 years old? Then there is the compensation for which the perpetrators have to pay. So we will not accept that these perpetrators take over our streets. What are the facts now? First of all, when it comes to the arson of vehicles and street furniture, no suspects were caught in the act. Various investigations are under way, including camera images, with the aim of identifying, prosecuting and punishing the perpetrators. Secondly, in relation to the figures, the police forces in the Brussels-Capital Region have made 528 interventions. There were 59 interventions for fireworks. A large number of interventions were about corona. There were 84 violations of curfew. There were 75 violations of the cooperation ban. So there is indeed a check on corona in Brussels, perhaps not as much as in Middelkerke, but still much. In Brussels, 7 illegal parties were shut down by the police. 48 minutes were drawn up for this purpose. In addition, there were 184 administrative arrests and 25 arrests. There were 7 preliminaries at the Brussels parquet, 5 with the investigating judge. Three suspects were released under conditions and three were arrested. These arrests concern theft, facts of violence, a fact of sexual violence and drug offences. Infringements of the corona measures will be dealt with in accordance with the Directive of the College of Attorneys General, the COL 6/2020. You know that directive was tightened up. That's been discussed here. There is, among other things, a firmer approach to illegal parties with a fine of 750 euros for a participant and 4,000 euros for an organizer or otherwise a direct subpoena before the court. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, in the majority of cases the offenders of the corona measures will be punished with a fine. In specific cases, they will be subpoenaed. Then I'll come to the pertinent questions about the law of speed. Important to know is that in 2019, those are the latest figures I have at my disposal, almost a thousand suspects were subpoenaed in Brussels in fast-track justice for the criminal court. That is based on Article 216quater of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Is two months fast? I would also prefer it to be faster, but you said it yourself: the law that wanted to deal with that in a few days, namely the law following the 2000 European Football Championships, was destroyed by the Constitutional Court because the rights of defence could not be guaranteed. A system of night courts, like in New York, we cannot introduce, because of the rights of defence that apply to us. So almost a thousand suspects were subpoenaed in Brussels in 2019. That is 38% of all fast-track cases in our country, more than in West Flanders, East Flanders and Antwerp together. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u121	But we're good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u122	You say you're good, you are, but with the rest of West Flanders I have my reservations. Is that enough? Of course that's not enough. From February onwards, meetings in Brussels will take place four times a week in fast-track law. I also mentioned in my policy statement that I strongly believe that a lick-on-piece policy can make a difference. I would like to support a province that may not be covered very much here in the hemisphere, but which is doing very well in that area, and that is Limburg. Mr Dedecker, ladies and gentlemen, Limburg has set up a system with a lick-on-piece policy, whereby the parquet board instead of taking 45 weeks on average to make a decision, which is the average in our country, which is now doing 5 weeks on time. Today, the Beringen-Ham-Tessenderlo police zone in Limburg joined the system. In other words, if someone is caught and the court is involved in the case, Limburg succeeds in subpoenaing him or her within the month. That's the system we need. I went to look at that system in Limburg and we need to extend it to the rest of the country. That's the solution. Mrs Bury, how do we intend to do that? Will we allocate resources to this? Yes, we will. Of the EUR 125 million that we entered extra for Justice in 2021 and which we will indicate in budgetary control, a significant part will have to go to the creation of high-speed courts throughout our country. There must be swift courts everywhere, so that easily identifiable crime can be dealt with in these courts and there is a right there. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dedecker, I have read very carefully your interpretation, which, as always, is a thorough piece of work. Nevertheless, I would like to make a number of comments or answers in this respect. Firstly, I read and quote that there is a great contrast between the Dutch language and the French language parquet in Brussels. There is a great constitutional specialist here. Mr Verherstraeten, let me take a look at you. In my opinion, there are no two parquets in Brussels. There's one court order, one prosecutor and one policy. Mr Jean-Marc Meilleur is the bilingual prosecutor of Brussels and has a whole package of substitutes under him. They follow one policy. You cannot claim that in Brussels there is a difference between the French speakers or the Dutch speakers in the parquet. So there is a serious misunderstanding. You write that the relationship between the parquet and the policemen is completely sour. That could be a statement. In the meantime, I have already had the opportunity to speak to two chiefs of police of the six in Brussels. Mr De Landsheer, Chief Constable of the difficult Brussels-South Police Zone, comes from East Flanders and is a motivated policeman. He deliberately chose Brussels, probably because there is more ambience here than in East Flanders. This is evident in a large city with a high population density. He works very well with the parquet in Brussels. The Attorney General has also sat on my question with the six chiefs of police to ensure a much better cooperation. You have quoted from the interesting book of the street cop. I don't know what period that is. In the meantime, that man may be active somewhere else or retired. There must also be improvement in this area. You are right about the capacity of the closed institution. There is often a shortage, but this is not only a problem for Brussels, but also for the rest of Flanders and Wallonia. But that is what the Communities are going to do. What can the Minister of Justice do to avoid this kind of situation in the future? That is a very legitimate question to which I would also like to answer very honestly. Safety in a city is achieved by a multitude of efforts. It starts with good education. Everything starts with that. Young people who do not finish school are much more susceptible to crime than young people who do. Lots of jobs, more work is important. Quality housing is crucial. Cleanliness, respect for the rules and a good enforcement policy are needed. That's the last thing the police and the Justice Department want to take care of. I am working directly with the Minister of the Interior, who is creating a new wind in the department. Does this mean that there will be no more incidents in Brussels next year? Mr Depoostere, would you promise that in Brussels? I can't make that promise. Let me tell you something: big words about this are dangerous, because what has been the promise to clean up Molenbeek? That's the question you need to ask. What did that get you in the numbers? Conclusion: The police and the Justice Department are doing their job. The fact that the six Brussels police zones operated under one command on New Year's Eve was a good thing. As far as I'm concerned, we can move on. You know perfectly well what I want to say, but I have to be careful when I say that in Parliament. The parquet was also very well prepared and that allowed for rapid removal, for a large number of findings to be made and for many administrative and judicial arrests to have been made that evening. I naturally share your view that gratitude and thanks for the police and the justice system are in place here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There was a lot of information. You say: unacceptable. You were talking about young people again. I've been asking for numbers on the origins. I didn't get it, but I didn't expect anything from you. You also said to Mr Van Vaerenbergh: 'It was worse then with your minister'. They were rocks then, and now they're molotov cocktails. I don't know what's worse: a rock or a molotov cocktail. I'm just as sorry about all that. You also say that they weren't really riots, because they were only with a few and not with a whole group. The police have to go out 528 times for serious facts. I don't care if those are riots or anything else, it just can't be. Arson is three to ten years old, but they're for gangs, but they're not gangs, because they're not riots. It's very confusing what you're proclamating there, but it doesn't make me feel good. You say that you have done something: the right to be quick, all the parquets have to abide by it. That's so woolly. How are they gonna do that? With what staff? You say you have an extra EUR 150 million for this year. A significant part of it goes to fast courts. That's not an answer either. Which part of that goes to fast courts and when? Now there's nothing the parquets can do. You're talking four times a week of fast-track hearing. I am very pleased to hear that, but I am not getting a concrete solution here. What can the Minister do, you ask? First of all, our motions no longer vote away. That's the beginning of the good work. Secondly, you are quite right to talk about employment, education and housing, which are very important to get the people on the right track. I fully agree with that, but I recommend that we transfer everything to Flanders as soon as possible, so that we can have a good overall policy there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. New Year's letters are a tradition in our country, but I still fear it. You say there were no riots. Let us then call it facts or incidents, or crimes, many crimes, because 25 cars were set on fire and more than 500 interventions took place. In addition to New Year's letters, the incidents in Brussels are becoming a tradition. If Brussels politics continues to look away and if Justice does not follow it closely, I fear that we will be talking about the same thing here next year and probably in 2023 and 2024. It is therefore important for the Justice Department to follow it up properly and quickly and for the sentences to be effectively implemented quickly. Minister, you say that big words are dangerous and you point out what can come of them. However, you yourself have already said a lot of big words. In your policy statement, you stated that you will ensure that all penalties will be implemented effectively. Well, we will follow you up and see if you can live up to your big words.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u125	Mr Dedecker, I see that you are asking to speak, but you will not have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u126	Madam President, the Minister has mentioned my name and I am asking for the floor for a personal statement. I won't argue anymore. I admire the voluntarism and I very much like to hear what is said about the right to speed. I would say to introduce immediately into West Flanders and also convince the governor. It always likes to hit the bones against each other, it certainly won't take long to do this. I'd like to point out something. I know the Minister won the Fat Van Dale at the time. The Fat Van Dale is a dictionary. I think you won it in 2001, because I won it in 2002, which is why I know it very well. When you come home tonight, Minister, you should find out what a "relief" is. Let me explain to you what that is. A riot has two meanings. It's an event that stirs up a stir. I don't know if setting a car on fire in Brussels is causing a stir. Probably not anymore, by the power of habit. I told you these are standard incidents these days. A second meaning is a riot on the street. I suspect burning cars, destroying street furniture, burning garbage cans aren't a bunch of riots on the street. So when you come home tonight, Minister, consult the Fat Van Dale. For the rest, do everything you've said and we'll all, from left to right, I think, be very satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u127	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Bury and Mr. Ortwin Depoortere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mmes Kathleen Bury et Kristien Van Vaerenbergh et de M. Jean-Marie Dedecker and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - in view of the serious riots and violence that took place in Brussels on the night of 31 December 2020 to 1 January 2021, during which the police had to intervene 528 times; twenty cars, two scooters and fifty-five pieces of urban furniture were burned, and three buses, two trams and two tram stops of the Brussels transport company STIB were attacked; - in view of the fact that these acts of "violence of the Saint-Sylvestre" are a recurring annual phenomenon in the capital; - in view of the fact that there have been many police interventions but virtually no arrests; - noting that violence against the police and emergency services is committed daily in Brussels and other major cities; asks the government - to provide the police and prosecutors with the necessary resources to provide a firm response to this type of explosion of violence; - to take the necessary measures to prevent such recurrent violence at the time of the Saint-Sylvestre from occurring in the future; - to add pepper sprays and anti-perforation vests to the basic equipment of rescue workers (such as paramedics and firefighters); - in addition to better protective clothing, to allow the use of body cameras by the police forces; - to carry out an evaluation of the Police Function Act (art. 37) so that police officers can intervene more firmly in order to maintain public order." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Kathleen Bury and Mr Ortwin Depoostere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mrs Kathleen Bury and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and by Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having regard to the heavy riots and violence in Brussels during the night of 31 December 2020 on 1 January 2021, where the police had to march 528 times, 20 cars, 2 scooters and 55 pieces of street furniture were set on fire, and where three buses, two trams and two tram stops of the Brussels transport company STIB were attacked; - having regard to the fact that this heavy 'old-year violence' is an annual phenomenon in the capital; - having regard to the fact that there were many interventions by the police, but hardly any arrests; - finding that violence against police and emergency services is a daily cost in Brussels and other cities; calls on the Government - to provide police and prosecutors with the necessary means to tackle this type of outbursts of violence; - take the necessary measures to prevent the recurrence of this recurring New Year's violence in the future; - add pepper spray and stabbing vests to the basic equipment of emergency workers (e.g. ambulances and firefighters); - to allow for the introduction of bodycams for police services, in addition to improved protective clothing; - to carry out an evaluation of the law on police officers (i.e. Article 37) so that policemen can act harder in the enforcement of law and order." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u128	Madam President, I am asking for an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u129	All right, thanks. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u130	By letter of 8 December 2020, the Attorney General of the Liège Court of Appeal communicated documents in order to enable the Chamber to possibly authorize prosecution by one of our colleagues under Article 59 of the Constitution. By letter of 8 December 2020, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal in Liège to enable the Chamber to allow, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, any prosecutions against one of our colleagues. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents are referred to the Prosecution Committee. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents shall be sent to the Commission for Persecutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u131	On 16 March, 3 July and 17 July 2020, an opinion was requested from the Council of State on the amendments received on the bill (Mrs. Eliane Tillieux, Mr. Patrick Prévot, Ms. Özlem Özen, Laurence Zanchetta and Mr. Mélissa Hanus, Mr. Jean-Marc Delizée and Ms. Sophie Thémont) amending various legislative provisions with a view to making the conditions for the voluntary termination of pregnancy more flexible, Nos. 158/1 to 16. On 16 March 2020, 3 July 2020 and 17 July 2020, the Council of State was asked to give its opinion on the amendments to the legislative proposal (Mrs Eliane Tillieux, Mr Patrick Prévot, Mrs Özlem Özen, Laurence Zanchetta and Mr Mélissa Hanus, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrs Sophie Thémont) amending various legal provisions to ease the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy, Nos 158/1 to 16. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 January 2021, I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 January 2021, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u132	The Ecolo-Groen Group has sent me the candidacy of Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, replacing Ms Jessika Soors, as an effective member of Europol's Joint Parliamentary Monitoring Group. The Ecolo Green Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Stefaan Van Hecke to replace Mrs Jessika Soors as a permanent member of the Europol Joint Parliamentary Control Group. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare the candidate elected as an effective member of the Joint Parliamentary Monitoring Group of Europol. As there are no other applications, in accordance with Article 157 No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, do not vote and I declare the candidate elected as a permanent member of the Europol Joint Parliamentary Supervisory Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u133	By e-mail of 17 December 2020, the first President of the Council of State informed the House that, at its public hearing of 27 October 2020, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to the establishment of a list of three candidates for a vacant position of State Councillor in the French linguistic group, following the retirement of Ms. Diane Déom. By e-mail of 17 December 2020, the first President of the Council of State announced that the General Assembly of that Council, meeting at a public meeting on 27 October 2020, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, has drawn up a list of three candidates for a vacant post of State Council in the French language framework, following the retirement of Ms Diane Déom. The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: First candidate: Ms Elisabeth Willemart, first auditor at the Council of State Second candidate: Ms. Géraldine Rosoux, referendum at the Constitutional Court Third candidate: Mr Lionel Renders, auditor at the Council of State. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: First candidate: Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, First Hearing Officer at the Council of State Second candidate: Ms Géraldine Rosoux, referee at the Constitutional Court Third candidate: Mr Lionel Renders, auditor at the Council of State. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of this presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within 30 days of receipt of the communication of that nomination. The possible submission of another list by the Chamber should be based on the nominations received by the Council of State. Any nomination of another list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The time limit for the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 16 January 2021. The time limit available to the Court to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 16 January 2021. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Denis Delvaux, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Damien Jans, lawyer at the Brussels Bar - Mr. Christophe Lepinois, lawyer at the Brussels Bar - Ms Valérie Michiels, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Marc Oswald, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Lionel Renders, Auditor at the Council of State - Ms. Géraldine Rosoux, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Ms Joëlle Sautois, lawyer at the Brussels Bar - Ms Véronique Schmitz, Auditor at the Council of State - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, first auditor at the Council of State. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Denis Delvaux, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Damien Jans, attorney at the Brussels Bar - Mr Christophe Lepinois, lawyer at the Brussels Bar Mrs Valérie Michiels, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Marc Oswald, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Lionel Renders, Hearing Officer at the Council of State - Ms Géraldine Rosoux, referer at the Constitutional Court - Ms Joëlle Sautois, attorney at the Brussels Bar - Ms Véronique Schmitz, Hearing Officer at the Council of State - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, First Auditor at the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 January 2021, I propose that you transmit the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 January 2021, I propose that the nomination of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of candidates be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u134	The Chamber must proceed to the vote on naturalizations, Nos. 1698/1 and 2. The Chamber should proceed to the secret ballot on naturalizations, No. 1698/1 and 2. I propose that you proceed to this vote during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 21 January 2021. I propose that you proceed to this secret vote at the plenary session of 21 January 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 8 January 2021 until Thursday 21 January 2021 at 4 p.m. The proposed naturalization laws are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 8 January 2021 until Thursday 21 January 2021 at 4 p.m. The proposal of naturalisation laws is available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that: - only members may receive the ballot paper, which must be deposited in the ballot box; - the proposal for naturalization laws cannot be signed; - if the member does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant, the name of the applicant shall be deleted from the list given to him; - the ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 21 January 2021. I would remind you that: - only members can receive the ballot and deposit it in the ballot box; - the proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed; - where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him; - the urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 21 January 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u135	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill introducing an annual security account tax, No. 1708/1, was tabled. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law introducing an annual tax on securities accounts, No. 1708/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u136	Madam President, (...) securities account, starting on the day of entry into force of the Act and ending on 30 September 2021. During that reference period there are four reference times: 31 December, 31 March, 30 June and 30 September. The next reference time is 31 March and it is therefore essential that the law has already been adopted and published in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u137	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u138	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u139	Mr. Piedboeuf, you are asking for the urgency of the bill amending certain provisions of the Code of Economic Law with regard to the extension of the period of winter 2021 balances due to the pandemic of VOCID-19, No. 1710/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u140	Madam President, we are in crisis and many businesses have been closed. As a result, stocks are much larger than in other years. Mr Denis Ducrame's bill, Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem and Mrs Florence Reuter is intended to extend the period of pay; not to postpone it, but to extend it. Contacts have apparently been made with many businesses, with Unizo, etc. As we are in a period of pay and now is the time, we are asking for urgency so that this proposal can be considered before the end of the period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u141	It is amazing, but Mr Piedboeuf has asked for urgency for something that is urgent, unlike the previous point. I think that the majority will make everything urgent from now on, because at the first meeting in January the urgency is being asked for what should happen on 31 December. I assume that everyone will understand the surrealistic nature of that. However, as far as the proposal is concerned, there is a real urgency, and that is why we will support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u142	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u143	The urgency was requested for the motions that were introduced during the hearings that were exhausted at today's sitting. The urgency was requested for the motions that were tabled in response to the interplays that were dealt with at today's sitting. I submit this request to you. I'd like to make this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u144	As far as the procedure is concerned, I asked the Secretary of State for the Budget, who is also the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, and therefore for citizens. The motion relates to the fact that it sends us the confidentiality clauses. Since she didn't answer, I'm thinking that in the meantime, she may have sent them. I wanted to check this with you before I voted on the urgency. Indeed, if she gave these clauses, I can drop my motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u145	Did we get anything? I turn to the services to see if anything has been received. [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u146	Then it's no. Let's hope she does it within a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u147	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u148	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 16 December 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 16 December 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 57/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 57/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches in plenary and the committee meetings in November and December 2020 on the situation in Artsach show that the situation there certainly does not leave us untouched. However, we need more than concern and concern. The military conflict seems to be frozen for the time being, except for sporadic violations. However, it is only a matter of time before the conflict flares up again, especially after the statements of the President of Azerbaijan, who is threatening to destroy the Armenians militaryly. I would like to say nothing about the shameful military parade which was held on 10 December in Baku to celebrate the joint victory of Turkey and Azerbaijan which they achieved on the Armenian people of Nagorno-Karabakh. We heard a threatening language called 'Hate speech' from Erdogan's mouth to the Armenians. The military and political struggle will now continue on many other front lines. That's what the Turkish president explained. The unclear international status of the Republic of Artsach and the lack of recognition of its independent status as well as the reluctance of the international community will ensure that Azerbaijan, with or without the help of outsiders, will continue its policy of aggression. Belgium could take the lead in the first instance by establishing diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsach. As far as we are concerned, however, one further step should be taken. The Minsk Group is all too often used as an excuse for any real consultative body, in which the future status of Nagorno-Karabakh can be negotiated or settled. For our party, there are sufficient historical reasons and convincing international legal arguments for the Republic of Artsach to regard it as an independent state. Following the example of the French Senate, Belgium may also have the courage to be the first country in the world to recognise the Republic of Artsach as an independent sovereign state. Apart from the protection of the civilian population and the Armenian heritage, this would be of enormous value to the Armenians in Artsach, to the Armenians and to the diaspora, and we, as an ally in a just struggle, show our sincere solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u150	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u151	Yes 89 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u152	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 16 December 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 16 December 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 56/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Vicky Reynaert. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 56/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Vicky Reynaert. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the war, but certainly since the so-called ceasefire between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the residents of Artsach have been in a humanitarian and economic crisis. Thousands of displaced Armenians have lost their homes, their jobs and, at worst, their families. It is reported that 5,000 people were killed. The victims are not just military, there are also many civilian victims to regret. During the Turkish-Azerbaijan offensive not only military targets were targeted, they also deliberately bombed civilian targets such as churches, schools, historical monuments, graves and hospitals. The damage to infrastructure and the economic consequences are very serious. The medical situation in the affected area is also very serious. Of course, covid also grabbed around the area. Without adequate humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance, the residents of Artsach risk being in a virtually hopeless situation. Indirectly, Belgium contributes to humanitarian aid in the region with the substantial annual contribution to, among others, the Red Cross, NGOs and the UN Refugee Organisation. However, these organisations may decide independently where the most needs are and how and where the resources are used. We therefore call for an additional effort to be made, following the example of the French Government, to direct medical aid and humanitarian and logistical support to the region. This would directly benefit the affected civilian population in the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u154	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u155	Yes 89 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u156	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Four motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover; - a simple motion was tabled by Mme. Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten et Mme Melissa Depraetere . Four motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u157	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u158	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten, Kristof Calvo and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. Three motions were tabled: - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u159	Yes 86 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u160	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten, Kristof Calvo and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Melissa Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u161	Madam President, I have perhaps wrongly asked for urgency for the simple motion. If there is no motion for a recommendation, I believe that the ordinary motion is also without an object. I will withdraw them, so that Members are not obliged to vote either. We can therefore proceed to the order of the day without a vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u162	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u163	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Two motions were tabled: - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and Mr. Ortwin Depoortere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mme. Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten et Mme Melissa Depraetere . Two motions were tabled: - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury and Mr Ortwin Depootere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u164	Yes 90 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-07-definitief-55-plenair-ip082x.u165	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 14, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 January 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
