ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u1	Colleagues, we have until 4 p.m. to deal with a series of questions and an interplay with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u2	Mr Prime Minister, welcome, of course. I will quote you: "I will set a new date as soon as possible. Indeed, that questions remain, is not a good thing. For example, with the Advisory Committee on European Affairs, I have the habit of doing so very shortly before and after a European Council, and I think there is good interaction. We are going to look for a date to catch up and to be able to do this more frequently, because questions that relate to October last year, that is not a good thing." You said that here on 21 April and since then you have not come to answer any more questions. That was 49 days ago. That seems to me to be a little conflicting with the promise you made at the time. Now you leave at 4 p.m., no doubt for a good reason, I want to leave no doubt about that. My oldest question, for example, dates from January 25th. We have some kind of interest snowball effect here if we don't pay attention. Every session that you would attend here every 49 days, there is a risk that the delay will increase. Maybe the lack of people here has something to do with that. May I ask you, in the spirit of what you said on 21 April, to make a little more time for answering questions so that they do not impress anymore, which will now be the case for some people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u3	Mr De Roover, I said this on 21 April and took action immediately afterwards. A date was set at the beginning of May, on a Monday, I don't remember exactly when. That was not possible because the committee then decided to deal with the pandemic law. The committee, of course, organises its work as it wishes. The discussion of the pandemic law was also important. You are right, if there are too few frequent possibilities, that is not a good thing. However, I did implement what I said on 21 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u4	I find the excuse of the date of 17 May strange, because on Mondays the Committee on the Interior does not meet. It was decided to discuss the pandemic law on Mondays, precisely in order not to compromise the normal functioning of the committee. That was the argument of the majority to meet on that occasion for this committee. I remember because I was there at the time. I am glad that you agree with me, and if one day were to be an argument, there would undoubtedly have been another sitting day. In any case, I hope that we will not have to wait 49 days before we can welcome you here again. You will agree with me that parliamentary control is a crucial part of a functioning democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u5	I can only confirm that it was an exceptional situation to discuss the second reading of the pandemic law on a Monday. For the sake of fairness, I would add that the deadline set by the Prime Minister was fixed on Monday rather than the discussion of the pandemic law. I hope everyone agrees that the pandemic law was important enough to put them on the agenda with greater urgency. That does not mean, however, that some goodwill can be shown, both because of Parliament and because of the government, to attend the committees on a regular basis and to answer questions, in order to avoid a snowball effect due to the high number of questions saved. I do now believe that this discussion is taking too long. The longer it takes, the less time there will be to answer questions. The first series of questions on the agenda are the combined questions. 55013107C, 55013108C and 55013110C 55013258C and 55014284C by Mr Loones. I understand that both of them are currently participating in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal. I would therefore suggest that Mr De Roover examine with his fellow group member whether he wishes to postpone his question to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u6	Mr President, if my speech on the regulation of the work is helpful for the future, we have now lost some time, but we will see it as an investment for later. The combination of meetings of two committees is sometimes also annoying. Colleagues Loones and Pas are now stuck in another important committee. Prime Minister, I am very concerned about freedom of expression. I don't think they're important to me. Every time the subject is raised in Parliament, I can see that everyone agrees, at least by word, with that. That principle has not yet been called into question. Let's keep it that way. However, a number of trends concern me and our group has already put questions about this in several committees and several ministers. In fact, a resolution has already been adopted in plenary, which takes a preliminary view of what will be decided in the so-called Digital Services Act (DSA), which is currently being worked on in Europe. This directive with absolutely important provisions is comprehensive. The resolution we adopted in this context referred to the functioning of algorithms. We must keep that in mind, because we are actually talking about strange creatures who are trying to steer free speech rather than facilitate it. Prime Minister, during the plenary session of 7 January 2021, you underlined that, I assume, this is an open door that is the only guiding principle your government is following, the Constitution and the rules of the Constitution. On the other hand, you seem to count on the European framework of the Digital Services Act. Then I am very interested in the parallel with freedom of expression and the cascade system, as we know in our law. Articles 19 and 25 of the Constitution seem to contradict parts of the Digital Services Act, for example when it comes to the use of a printer or publisher in the form of social media platforms and not the possible offender of the use of free speech. It's still colliding with the cascade system. The same applies to the idea of the intervention, outside the courts to close social media accounts of certain users. I would have liked to have heard your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u7	Mr De Roover, first of all, I would like to point out that Secretary of State Michel is responsible for following up on the file you are referring to. The question of whether the Digital Services Act complies with Articles 19 and 25 of our Constitution relates more generally to respect for fundamental rights. The Digital Services Act, presented by the European Commission last December, aims to modernise the liability regime for intermediary service providers. The current rules in this area are based on the 20-year-old e-commerce directive. One of the pillars of modernisation is to strengthen the obligation for information society intermediary services, in particular hosts and platforms, as regards illegal content online, in a transversal manner. I can assure you that the Commission has thoroughly examined the impact of the DSA on freedom of expression and on other fundamental rights in its impact assessment. Our analysis shows that several points of the text are precisely aimed at strengthening the exercise of freedom of expression. The DSA is a transversal instrument that intersects with numerous areas of competence which are essential for consultation with several colleagues, in particular with regard to fundamental rights. We are looking for an appropriate balance to protect fundamental rights online. If, after further analysis or discussion, we find that the proposed provisions do not guarantee that balance or infringe freedom of expression, we will defend an amendment during the European negotiations. The dossier is currently on the negotiating table at the level of the Council of the European Union. Nevertheless, I can assure you that our government is closely following the discussions on the text, so that an ambitious, effective and proportionate instrument can be adopted for regulating illegal content online, while respecting all fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u8	Prime Minister, it may be true that the matter falls within the competence of Secretary of State Michel. But I have taken a quote from you from the Chamber and you have rightly said that the government still needs to take a position. In that sense, I think it is right that I should address the question to you. I repeat that an important part of the Digital Services Act is useful and meaningful. But as you say, the regulation is aimed at moderating illegal content, and that is what I am asking. I am not so much concerned with the principle of moderating, as it is about deleting illegal content, but with the question of who can judge what content is illegal? You will agree with me that in a state of law the judge will judge it and not a private player, while the Digital Services Act is just aimed at privatising justice. Perhaps it is a sudden liberal reflex of yours to even privatise justice in this one, but that does not seem to me to be a good idea. So I keep to your words that it is about illegal content and that only the usual means can be used to determine whether something is legal or illegal. Of course, the determination is not made by Internet giants and certainly not by algorithms, which sometimes have a very dubious effect. You have actually remained fairly general in your reply. I will therefore repeat my question for more concrete, specific references to the DSA. I hope that the government is very attentive and will show the appropriate and critical attitude before this intervention is split into the stomach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question dates back to the end of January 2021. That's why she's not completely up-to-date anymore, but she's definitely still up-to-date. I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u10	I see from Zoom that the other authors, Mr Mertens and Mr D'Amico, are not present. I shall therefore give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u11	Thank you, Mrs Houtmeyers, for your question. In my reply, I would like to refer to the reply of my fellow Deputy Prime Minister Van Quickenborne of 3 February 2021. The moratorium was a temporary emergency measure to cope with the economic shock. It is a blunt instrument, which can quickly cause too many negative effects. Today's creditors can become tomorrow's debtors. We must not overestimate the effect of the non-extension. Indeed, the measure was only limited in scope. Moreover, the moratorium did not apply between mid-June 2020 and mid-November 2020. In the latter case, I can even talk about the end of December 2020, as the House only approved it by mid-December 2020. However, we have not seen a noticeable increase in the number of bankruptcies, nor should this happen in the immediate future. The vast majority of citations, in the context of bankruptcies, come from the public authorities. The tax administration will not issue a citation until April. We therefore opt for targeted aid and a structural solution to support businesses. We will lower the thresholds for judicial reorganisation. In this way, companies, together with creditors, can draw up a payoff plan and prevent bankruptcies. We are also providing for a new procedure, which allows us to reach a negotiated solution before we have to go into public court proceedings. This will allow companies to come out when there is already a solution. You also asked a question about SMEs. It is precisely through our initiatives that entrepreneurs will be less exposed to a number of administrative burdens and financial costs. Until now, many documents had to be added to the application for judicial reorganisation proceedings, in particular 11 documents. We shall be seriously cutting back on that. In our proposal we give companies in difficulty more time to obtain those documents and the court has the opportunity to determine which missing documents still have to be drawn up during the course of the procedure. We've consulted with a lot of stakeholders. The Minister of Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem, instructed his administration not to recover tax debts from entrepreneurs tested by corona measures until 30 June 2021 inclusive. This instruction was already in force until the end of March 2021. It was extended until 30 June 2021 in order to preserve healthy companies before the crisis of the coronavirus and who only contracted debts from 1 January 2020, after the moratorium on bankruptcies was halted. These protections obviously do not apply to debts incurred as a result of the finding of fraud or if the incapacity is organised by fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, since I was the only questioner, it might have been easier if you had answered in Dutch, both for you and for me. The answer was probably also prepared and you refer to 3 February. In the meantime, that was four months ago. I had hoped to get a current state of affairs or an update. I also pointed out to your colleague at the time that in practice the courts are still running fairly smoothly, even at the moment. However, it is expected that there will be plenty of bankruptcies in September. There are new recruitments at the moment, but the question will then be whether that will be sufficient, especially among the commercial courts. Those are the ones who have the most practical experience, who will really have to do it in practice and make the decisions. In general, they are not the most paid judges, and in addition, they often have their own business to run and have to get it back on track. I'm expecting some trouble in the fall anyway. Let this be a warning and let us hope that it will not turn into soup in the autumn and that there will be no chain reaction either. In this way, non-healthy companies could carry healthy companies along with them and the problems could be much greater.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u13	Mrs Pas is not present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, unlike the previous two speakers, I am pleased that you have had four months to answer that question. I am convinced that this will improve the quality of your answer. At the time I submitted the question, I spoke about "last week," but now I have to talk about early February, when it became known that King Filip and Queen Mathilde wished to carry out a renovation on their holiday home on the French island of Île d'Yeu and that they had obtained the necessary permission to do so. There was a political commotion in the town where the building is located, because the rumor was that there would have been some interference to get the approval of the building permit. The local mayor replied to an opposition member's question that, in view of the collective institution, the public interest was applicable and therefore the prefecture would have intervened to obtain permission for that building permit. Normally that is not possible as it is about a renovation in a nature zone, that property cannot be expanded just like that. If this were true, it wouldn't be decent. I think you agree, Prime Minister. That is why I have a number of specific questions about this. Before taking a position, I would first like to inform myself. Has the Federal Government asked the French Government, in any way, to treat with the necessary goodwill the permit for the renovation works at King Filip's holiday home? Who owns the property? Does the Belgian government, I am talking about the various qualities, the Government of the Buildings, the Gift, ever incur costs for the purchase, renovation or other work on King Filip's holiday residence? How do you and your government stand against an individual who might use his influence to ignore certain regulations and thus seem to be above the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u15	Mr Buysrogge, this property belongs, as has been said, to the private sphere of the King. By this I mean that it is not a matter of ownership of the Belgian State and there is no legal or financial involvement of the federal government. It is therefore clear that some pressure would have been exerted, at least some pressure from the Belgian authorities. In addition, I am of course aware that the government is responsible for the King's actions. In this context, I am not aware of any unlawful action or specific legal disputes in which the King would be involved. Furthermore, it is not for me or the Belgian Government to comment on the application of French legislation. I assume that building applications are submitted and dealt with in a specific way in France and that there are procedures for verifying compliance with the rules in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u16	Mr Prime Minister, it is of course true that Philippe Legrand, as he mentioned in the minutes of Ile d'Yeu's Liste des décisions, has applied for and obtained a building permit. I therefore assume that he has submitted this application entirely in his own name and that the government does not know anything about it. It would, of course, be very irresponsible if pressure had been exerted in one way or another, either by King Filip himself or by his entourage or by a member of the government or by an administration. After all, we no longer live in the 19th century, when Leopold II had an entire country as personal property, Congo Free State. It makes sense, therefore, to continue to look carefully at it and to ensure that this kind of abuse is not possible, but I am somewhat reassured by your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u17	Prime Minister, this is a follow-up to my question on cybercrime, in particular about its victims and not about the major hackings and attacks on Belnet. You replied to my question about the escalation of cybercrime that the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB) continuously informs about cybersecurity problems and cybercrime. You also indicated that the CCB with the address would have suspicious@safeonweb.be url's blocked in order to reduce the number of victims of phishing in Belgium. For example, by 2020 alone, approximately 670 fraudulent links could be crippled. What else does the CCB do with that information? Is it just limiting itself to blocking those links? Does anyone identify these urls any further? Will the information be passed on to the court? Are synergies possible with, for example, hotline.belgie.be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u18	Mr Moyaers, the links and the attachments in the messages that are sent to the address suspected@safeonweb.be are automatically checked by the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium. Malicious links are redirected to Google Safe Browsing and Microsoft SmartScreen. Most web browsers use those two lists to give a browser level warning. In this way, all Internet users are warned if they click on a malicious link. The browser-level approach allows you to quickly block access to fraudulent websites. In the fight against phishing, speed is crucial. Fraudulent websites are often hosted on foreign servers, which would require international cooperation every time to take a fraudulent website offline. The analysis of viruses in attachments takes place in an automated sandbox environment. The results are used for own research and shared with partners, including some antivirus providers. The information from suspicious@safeonweb.be is not automatically shared with the parquet, but is available on request. The main purpose of suspicious@safeonweb.be is to be able to block as many malicious websites as possible at browser level as soon as possible and thus automatically. There are several ways to report phishing in Belgium. The false message can be forwarded to suspect@safeonweb.be and phishing can be reported on belgium.be, to different banks, to Febelfin, to the organisation whose name is abused, to the ICT service of the employer or to the local police. The CCB encourages that. The fight against phishing is a shared responsibility. Each institution may take appropriate action at its level. The CCB already works with hotline.belgie.be. The information is shared between the two services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer, from which I learn, above all, that this is a shared responsibility. However, it is to be hoped that information will be very well shared. My question was mainly about the fact that only blocking of the left does not solve the problem structurally. After all, a website disappears and immediately there are forty new sites in place in the world, leaving the cat-and-mouse game. Synergies are therefore important in this respect. It is therefore best to strengthen each other as closely as possible through intense cooperation. Maybe it is also better to install a hotline for all notifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u20	Mrs Hugon had tabled two questions: 55014445C and 55014446C. However, it is absent, so the questions lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u21	Prime Minister, an open letter dated March 3, 2021, entitled "horrifying remarks by Herman De Croo and Etienne Davignon on colonization and the African diaspora" was published on French- and Dutch-speaking sites such as Intal, to write freedom or DeWereldMorgen. It was signed by a series of personalities – including Aminata Traoré, former Minister of Culture of Mali and alterglobalist activist – and organizations, including the African diaspora. The facts are as follows: on 15 February 2021, at an online public round table organised by the Belgian Centre of Reference for the Expertise of Central Africa (CREAC), MM. Herman De Croo and Etienne Davignon have spoken in favour of colonization that are not in keeping with the work of decolonizing minds undertaken by the House of Representatives who created a special commission "Colonial Pass." What was particularly shocking was the contemptuous and discriminating words exchanged by the two men at the end of the presentation, not paying much attention to the microphone left open, Mr. De Croo having said to Mr Davignon: "the diaspora is not the one we would like" and Mr Davignon having replied to Mr. From Croo: "There are really assholes." The signatories of the open letter request, in addition to a public apology from the two men, the withdrawal of their title as Minister of State. The question arises especially for Etienne Davignon, because it is not only his recurrent declarations in favour of colonization. In addition, in 2015, as president of BOZAR, he banned any image of Lumumba during the first edition of the Afropolitan Festival, which had led to an action of protest by artists. Mr Davignon is the subject of a complaint lodged by Patrice Lumumba's family of the head of "war crime, torture, inhuman and degrading treatment" for his involvement in the assassination of the Congolese Prime Minister in 1961. I also have an inquiry on this subject, which will also be addressed to you. My questions, Prime Minister, are as follows. Do you join the signatories of the open letter asking for a public apology from Herman De Croo and Etienne Davignon? The award of the title of Minister of State is made with the counterseing of the Prime Minister, what is the procedure for withdrawing this title? Do you think that, in view of the many facts mentioned, Mr Davignon deserves to retain the title of Minister of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u22	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, the debates on the colonial past and our relationship with the Congo are sensitive themes that often crystallize divergent opinons and vivid emotions. It is therefore a good thing that this Parliament can conduct these debates in a calm scientific approach and in accordance with the proposals of each and every one. Facing a turbulent and painful history and moving forward together is a difficult process that requires time as well as respect and serenity. It must also guide all those who are not part of this assembly. Having said that and not attending this meeting, I cannot verify the truthfulness or the context in which these statements were made. I also do not think I should call, in view of my function, to subscribe to this open letter. I repeat, serenity is a key element for writing together a new chapter of history in mutual respect. With regard to the award of the title of Minister of State, it is granted by royal decree and can therefore also be withdrawn only by that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u23	Prime Minister, I hear you refuse to join the signatories asking for a public apology from Messrs. Herman De Croo and Etienne Davignon. This is regrettable because you are talking about respect, and that is not what comes out of this exchange and from those words that are infamous for the diaspora in particular. It is an attitude that is consistent with the ideology that, in my opinion, has remained colonialist and that is repeated here. These men are probably from another time on condition that time has really changed because one wonders if the economic and political establishment in Belgium has not remained colonial. As regards the withdrawal of Mr Davignon's status as Minister of State, it seems to me that this would be a necessity, because this person has a troubled past and his present also seems to be. Evidence shows that he was involved in the assassination of Patrice Lumumba. It would be entirely logical to remove this title from him, but he is well known both in the political and economic establishment of capitalist Belgium and, for you, it seems inconceivable to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u24	Mr President, my question No. 55015686C dates from 25 January. In the meantime, there has been a lot of new unrest. I will therefore drop that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u25	Prime Minister, this question is also 2.5 months old, but in this case it may be just as good that it has taken a while. In the meantime, it has been confirmed what was then a suspicion, namely that it is about spreading fake news. In De Morgen we could read that your security services have prepared a secret report based on rumors from the Iranian diaspora. I think this is appropriate: we consider it the duty of the State's security to make a record of what is suspected. That note leaked out to the media how, we don't know, and Secretary of State Mahdi communicated about it with a newspaper. That has made the security of the state very grievous. So much so that she decided to go to the press herself, which is quite exceptional, but apparently she felt it was necessary to correct certain issues. In the meantime, we have also learned that this very light note, which, as far as I know, was very nuanced, has been examined and proved to be unfounded. I assume you also regret that such a note is leaking. Were certain measures taken to monitor this? For such a leak gives such a note a weight that the security of the State itself considered undesirable, hence its intervention. Is it possible to order an internal investigation on this, not through the journalist, of course, because it has source secret? My last and most important question is this. I assume that the leak did not come from Secretary of State Mahdi and that there were also other cabinets of the note informed so I do not want to insinuate that. My problem is that when that newspaper contacted the Secretary of State, he confirmed the existence of that note. For me, the fact that he forwarded it to the court is part of his mission: one cannot be too careful. But there is no reason why he would confirm that to a newspaper, if there is no reason to believe that what could be insinuated has some ground. It has also been shown that this is not the case. The delicate point is that it mentioned the name of an elected MP from the same constituency as Secretary of State Mahdi. He has therefore confirmed that he has delivered a note in which that name appears to the public prosecutor, a note with false suspicions of malpractice. Do you really think it is appropriate that a Secretary of State should be allowed to speak because that is a fact in the media? There was, of course, no need or reason why, by communicating a very light note, which he rightly delivered to the security of the state, he strengthened the insinuations in the media. What is your opinion on the deontology that should be followed in that case in your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u26	Mr President, I naturally regret any leak of confidential reports from our intelligence or security services. In such major events, I expect the services concerned to carry out an internal investigation to see how that could have happened. I understand that on 4 March, following the news that De Morgen would bring, the Secretary of State's cabinet stated: "We cannot judge the substance of this case. That's why we called in the federal prosecutor's office. For us, someone will remain innocent forever until proven guilty." On 9 March, the Secretary of State gave a detailed account to this committee of the actions he has taken and of the considerations that have played a role in this process. The Security of the State has also communicated to explain the note following the notification and the leak in question. I note that the Secretary of State answered truthfully in the newspaper when he was asked about the actions he had taken in response to the report in question. If he had denied or refused to reply to those actions, he could not have been accused of acting on the basis of information given to him and the Secretary of State considered it necessary to report to the court. The reaction of the Secretary of State in the newspaper also clearly shows that it is not up to him to judge the guilt or innocence and is even explicitly referred to the presumption of innocence. This is not how the Secretary of State would have gone wrong in his response. Finally, I would like to contradict the fact that the Secretary of State should have acted differently because a Member of Parliament was mentioned in the case. I expect a Secretary of State to judge on the basis of the facts and elements communicated to him regardless of the person. Whether it is a member of another party's parliament or a member of its own party's municipal council, I do not think that a Secretary of State should be strict or less strict in these cases in his consideration of whether he should report to the public prosecutor. No one is above the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u27	Prime Minister, I assume you are deliberately misinterpreting my question when you give the impression that I would say that there should be no mention of a note referring to a Member of Parliament. I didn't say that at all. In that respect, your answer is really undersized and even vile. You know what I have asked, so please respond to that. Whether a citizen is an elected person or not, that should not make a difference at all in passing on the information to the only authority that can judge its accuracy, the public prosecutor. So you are again insinuating something that is actually deontologically flawed. As far as the Secretary of State's deontology is concerned, you seem to be dealing with this very easily. I am very sorry, it was not about passing on the information or the action of the Secretary of State, it was about informing the media. It is easy for you to get rid of it by saying: 'I have heard that Jeanneke is holding on with the butcher but I do not believe that'. I'm sorry, that's the way things are going around here. For example, Mr Mahdi has acted here: 'I have heard that a Member of Parliament from my own constituency, a competitor, might have misunderstood something, but that does not mean that she did. I only passed it on to the parquet." Prime Minister, do you really think there is no deontological problem here? In that case, I believe there is a deontological problem with the whole government. I would really like to argue for restraint on the part of political competitors. That is not the way in which people conduct politics properly. I think you are being too easy about this, apart from the fact that in your reply you made insinuations that had absolutely nothing to do with the question as I asked them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u28	Prime Minister, a forum signed by various personalities and published in the French- and Dutch-speaking media on May 31, 2021, calls for: "Will Belgium get rid of the remains of Lumumba in silence and shame?" Justice holds the remains - one tooth, in fact - of the Congolese Prime Minister murdered in 1961. She has been holding these remains at the disposal of the Lumumba family since September 2020. For four decades, Belgian policeman Gérard Soete detained this tooth, showing it to his entourage and journalists as a kind of hunting trophy. This shows the Belgian authorities' responsibility for the physical elimination of a democratically elected Prime Minister. However, Belgium has never officially recognised only a moral responsibility in the assassination of Patrice Lumumba. However, a police officer ostensibly detained the Prime Minister's remains for six decades without ever being worried. This fact, among many others, recalls that, as the authors of the above-mentioned rostrum point out, "Belgian ministers, diplomats, emissaries and officers of the time played a decisive role in the overthrow of Patrice Lumumba's democratically elected government and in the liquidation of the Prime Minister and his companions, the President of the Senate Joseph Okito and Minister Maurice Mpolo in January 1961". It was only after the death of Gérard Soete, following a journalistic investigation by Jan Antonissen in Humo and a complaint for concealment of corpse brought by Ludo de Witte, author of the book L'Assassinat de Lumumba, that the Belgian Justice finally raided, in 2016, the daughter of Gérard Soete and seized the tooth transmitted by his father. The responsibility of the Belgian authorities is twofold. First, there was their involvement in the assassination in 1960-1961, and then their inaction in the six decades that followed. The question is how these remains will be returned. In silence and shame, or at an official and public event, in the presence of the highest representatives of the Belgian State, recognizing Belgium's responsibility? I have already addressed two parliamentary questions to Sophie Wilmès, Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are my written questions of 17 November 2020 and 23 March 2021, but I have not received any concrete answers as to how the return will be organised by the Belgian authorities. More recently, information was obtained. A post-scriptum from the rostrum I have just quoted in De Standaard states that "some media outlets have received an announcement that Prime Minister Alexander De Croo will actually deliver a speech at this ceremony." Yesterday, you issued a statement indicating that you are actually going to be present at this ceremony of restitution of this remains. You also state that "the remains of Patrice Lumumba refer to the common past between our two countries, including these difficult episodes". It is a very neutral formulation, which says nothing on the substance, and which says nothing about Belgium's responsibility. However, the authors of the rostrum I have quoted ask, if the information is confirmed, not only that this be done at a public meeting, since the official programme, initially, provided for a non-public meeting, by invitation; but above all, that "this momentum be used to unambiguously recognize the political responsibility of the Belgian State in the assassination of the Congolese Prime Minister and his unacceptable attitude in the six decades that followed". Apart from the handing over of the remains, there is also uncertainty about the organization of the funeral in the Congo, even though we were able to read in the press that the head of State would not go there on 30 June this year, but we did not know whether it was related to the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba, because obviously the dates did not match. The question still arises of a possible presence of a higher-level Belgian delegation in the Congo as well. Prime Minister, do you confirm – this seems to be the case, according to your press release – that you are going to deliver a speech at the handover of Patrice Lumumba's remains? Will this speech be delivered at an official and public ceremony? Where and when? Will this speech be an opportunity for you to recognize the responsibility of the Belgian authorities for the physical elimination of Patrice Lumumba? Do you not find that the Belgian State could finance the construction of a monument in tribute to Patrice Lumumba, as well as the creation of a Lumumba Institute that would promote the anti-colonial and pan-Africanist ideas of the murdered political leader? Finally, have you received any information from the Congolese authorities on the funeral that should be held in the Congo? Will a Belgian delegation participate? If so, what will be the composition? Will the Head of State participate? Or will you, as head of government, participate in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, my predecessor has already told this sordid, sad and difficult story for the Congo but also for Belgium as regards its responsibilities. As has been said, the Belgian judge in possession of the rest, namely the recovered tooth, of the former Prime Minister has lifted the seizure of this tooth. Retention at the Registry is complete and apparently no longer necessary in the course of the investigation under way for more than ten years into the death of the former independent leader. Despite the extremely slow progress of this investigation, this tooth will be returned on 20 June 2021. At the time of the submission of my question, the Belgian State did not envisage any ceremony. In the meantime, the latest communications have overturned this claim. I'm already looking forward to it. This is good news and a first sign of the recognition of our responsibility. However, it would be incomprehensible that this handover of Mr. Lumumba's remains should be carried out in a discreet, unofficial manner. Prime Minister, what will be the ceremony? In what context will it take place? Who will participate? Will it be public? We are indeed in time to covid but there is a legitimate expectation from the Congolese diaspora and people on the spot to be able to participate in this ceremony. What will be the Belgian Government's position on responsibilities? I would remind you that a commission has looked into the assassination of Patrice Lumumba and has made a whole series of recommendations. Perhaps it would be interesting to take stock of these recommendations, particularly in our committee which will look at Belgium's colonial past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u30	Prime Minister, I asked Foreign Minister Sophie Wilmès several times in 2020 and 2021 about the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's remains. I gathered in Lumumba Square in January 2021 with a colleague from the Brussels Parliament. I am informed by the press that the programme for the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's remains has just been finalized in consultation with the Congolese authorities. The "last trip" will be preceded by a ceremony in Brussels which should be attended by the Federal Prosecutor. A carte blanche fearing Belgium's failure to take responsibility and an absence of official speeches also came out in this direction at the end of May. A ceremony, around the date of 30 June, was also to be held in Kinshasa. An official invitation to King Philip had been sent to the government. Since then, we have learned that for reasons related to the crisis of the Covid-19 and the health situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, His Majesty the King would not move now and that the invitation was postponed. Nevertheless, it is true that events will take place in both Belgium and the Congo. Prime Minister, can you confirm this information or at least update it officially? What is the status of preparations for this tribute to Brussels? Will the members of the Colonial Past Commission be associated? Who will represent Belgium at this ceremony? Will the federated entities and Parliament be associated? Is there a speech planned? If so, who will pronounce it and what will it contain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u31	Mr President, a ceremony to hand over Patrice Lumumba's remains is scheduled for 21 June at the Egmont Palace. This date was chosen in coordination with Patrice Lumumba's family and the Congolese authorities. The ceremony will be articulated in two stages. As a first step, we will respect the family's desire to have a private moment in which only a few relatives of Patrice Lumumba will participate and at which the federal prosecutor will hand over the remains to the family. Out of respect for the Congolese tradition, I prefer to use the term "disposal". In a second stage, the ceremony will become official and solemn. This will be an opportunity for me, as well as for the highest representative of the DRC present – to the extent he wishes – to present a speech. I intend to prepare a speech commensurate with the occasion. Although he was a controversial figure, Patrice Lumumba has been and continues to be an important symbolic figure in Congo's history as well as in the struggles for independence throughout the African continent. His memory deserves to be honoured. I recall that the Belgian Government has already expressed its regret and apologies for the role it has played in the events that led to his death. I'll take that apology back to my account. I am pleased that Patrice Lumumba's remains are finally returned to his rightful successors and to mention on this occasion this emblematic personality and the Belgian-Congolese relations on 21 June. Given the covid-19 measures in place, the Belgian and Congolese assembly present at this official ceremony will have to be very limited. On the other hand, the media will of course be invited to bear the public character necessary for this event of symbolic importance for the DRC and Belgium. There was never a question of encircling this ceremony of silence, only to grant the children of Lumumba a moment of private and family recollection before the public ceremony due to their father's status. Once the remains were officially returned to the family during this ceremony at the Egmont Palace, the Congolese family and authorities planned to set up a programme for a wider audience to greet the Congolese Prime Minister one last time before his return to the country. To my knowledge, the details of this programme must be further developed by the Congolese authorities in accordance with the covid-19 measures in force. It appears that this tribute programme will also continue after the remains have returned to the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the initiative of the Congolese authorities. I have not received any official details on this. As announced yesterday, the health situation will unfortunately not allow a delegation from Belgium to visit the DRC for the ceremonies scheduled for the end of June. In the event of an invitation from the DRC, I will encourage the ambassador on the ground to represent our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u32	Prime Minister, I take note of your confirmation yesterday that there will be a speech on your part at an official event on June 21 at the Egmont Palace. It's noted and it's a good thing. On the background of what you are going to say and what you have already made here, excuse me, but I can only be shocked to hear you, Prime Minister, say that Lumumba was a controversial person. Controversy, he was probably among the assassins and the perpetrators of the assassination, who were notably the Belgian authorities. It is a bit loud to hear the "continuers" of these sponsors say that it was a controversial personality. Lumumba was the elected Prime Minister of the Congo and he was murdered with the complicity of Belgium to change the course of things in the Congo. Lumumba's remains have been held for decades in Belgium by a police officer, which is the material proof of the active role of the Belgian authorities. You say that Belgium has already apologized and that you are going to repeat them, but these are moral excuses that have been made following the Lumumba commission. These moral apologies are not a clear apologies for Belgium's responsibility as a sponsor or organizer of the murder, of the physical elimination. It is very different to present vague moral excuses or to recognize the political responsibility and responsibility for the physical elimination of Patrice Lumumba. Recall that this assassination determined the post-colonial history of the Congo. With the complicity of the Belgian authorities and the CIA, two coups d'état of the dictator Mobutu took place, the one who for decades maintained a fierce dictatorship pursuing colonialism in a kind of new form, that of neo-colonialism – knowing that he was the pawn of the Western powers. To limit itself vaguely to saying that there is a responsibility or that Belgium presents its moral apologies seems to me totally insufficient. In this case, we have this material proof of Belgium's responsibility. It is intolerable that you do not recognize this responsibility and what it also implies. If there is responsibility, repairs are to be considered, point on which I have asked you and on which you have not answered. This responsibility and reparations can take the form, for example, of a memorial to Patrice Lumumba, or of a Lumumba Institute advocating anti-colonial and pan-african ideas in Lumumba. I would like to table a motion for a recommendation containing these recommendations for the recognition of Belgium's responsibility and the consequences to be derived from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u33	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I am very pleased to hear that, in the end, Belgium also takes responsibility and measures the symbolic burden of returning the remains – and you are right to talk about the remains – of Patrice Lumumba. We are well on symbolic issues in the coming days. I would like to remind my colleagues that work has already taken place in this Parliament and will take place shortly. We can discuss facts and concrete actions. Here, the symbol is important and you mark the difference with what has been done. I think that's very good news. That said, under responsibility, labelled as moral at the time of the Lumumba commission, a Belgian policy that is not my political family, spoke of factual responsibility. This policy is Louis Michel. It is the evidence, as the Lumumba commission finally concluded, that we may still have to search in the past. I really hope the committee will. This is our role as a Belgian parliamentarian above all. I would also like to refer to the recommendations of the Lumumba Committee. There was the idea of a Patrice Lumumba Fund. I will again question the relevant ministers on this issue. It is not up to us to decide what will be done. It is to Patrice Lumumba's family to be able to direct these means. And then the question of archives still remains. There are always archives that are classified. I think that 60 years after the facts, we should observe a duty of transparency. I look forward to listening to your next speech and, above all, to starting our work on Belgium's colonial past, which may be – it is high time – able to shed light on certain areas of shadow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I think it is respectful of acts, and it is not weak in relation to the responsibilities that are now recognised by Belgium. I insist on the word "today." They are the result of the Lumumba committee of inquiry, which delivered conclusions in 2001, and for which the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Louis Michel, had pronounced himself. I understand, therefore, that as the Prime Minister of Belgium, for lack of new evidence, brought by a new committee of inquiry, you were sticking to the comments you wished to make in your reply. I believe that if we want to go further, we will probably not have to cut the period before 1960, but we will also have to move towards the period immediately following 1960. It was one of the aims of the Socialist Party in the Colonial Past Commission. This is where, in view of the new historical work and the new access to archives previously kept secret, one could indeed know another truth, even darker and darker than the one we knew in 2001, and perhaps even greater responsibility. Perhaps we will have to turn the Colonial Past Committee into a committee of inquiry on this issue. It is always a possibility that the committee has reserved itself. Finally, I will end with this. It is absolutely necessary that Belgium, as you have done, understands that, beyond symbolism, the restitution of Patrice Lumumba's remains is also that of a prime minister, brutally murdered in an international context of the cold war. Patrice Lumumba was a Congolese nationalist, but he was above all a progressive man, fond of social justice, who wanted to overthrow the colonial order and its neo-colonial extension. That's why he was murdered. I really think that he should be paid a tribute to his family, to his country, but also to his humanitarian and humanist views.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u35	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Marco Van Hees and the Prime Minister's reply, advises the government - to acknowledge the responsibility of the Belgian authorities in the case of the murder of Patrice Lumumba in 1961; - to ensure that the Head of State and the Head of Government attends an official and public ceremony on the occasion of the return of the remains of Patrice Lumumba to his family; - consider compensation arising from the responsibility of Belgium; - set up a monument in honour of Patrice Lumumba in Belgium; - to finance the creation of a "Lumba Institute" to promote the anti-colonial and pan-African ideas of the murdered political leader." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Marco Van Hees and the Prime Minister's response, recommends to the Government - to recognize the responsibility of the Belgian authorities for the assassination of Patrice Lumumba in 1961; - to ensure the presence of the Head of State and the Head of Government at an official and public ceremony on the occasion of the handing over of Patrice Lumumba's remains to his family; - consider reparations arising from Belgium's liability; - to build a monument in Belgium in tribute to Patrice Lumumba; - to finance the creation of a "Lumumba Institute" promoting the anti-colonial and pan-Africanist ideas of the murdered political leader." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Tim Vandenput. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, in order to identify threats, national cybersecurity authorities are buying intel feeds. These are flows of current cyber threats, which are constantly being updated. Most of these feeds are sold by commercial companies, such as security giants like McAfee or Kaspersky. So far, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) has purchased this information itself. Now it turns on the Secutec company. It obtained a public contract of EUR 8.6 million over four years. What action is the CCB taking on the information acquired from Secutec? What's going to be done with that information? Will the CCB exchange the information obtained from Secutec with the competent intelligence services? When detecting a possible cyber attack, a short play on the ball is required. How will the CCB ensure that the information obtained can quickly act against this threat? Hasn't the passing on of this information to the competent services such as State Security and Police been made very cumbersome now? Is there any possibility that different organisations, such as the police and the security of the State, may also have this information and, therefore, the purchase of this information would not make sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u37	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, the Cyber Threat Intelligence Feeds allow early anticipation of cyber threats and proactive protection measures. The contract with Secutec consists of Secutec acting as reseller for commercial CTI companies and concluding and managing contracts with these companies. In this way, the CCB has a portfolio of CTI products from several renowned CTI companies. The products purchased are used for different purposes. On the one hand, CTI feeds the CCB's earlywarning systems. For example, critical infrastructures, essential service providers, digital service providers, the nuclear sector and intelligence and security services in Belgium can be alerted to new cyber threats and attacks in a rapid and standardised way. In addition, CTI is useful for organisations to prepare cyber risk analyses. The CCB therefore shares all information with the Belgian intelligence and security services and has no knowledge of double purchases of CTI. On the other hand, the CCB detects vulnerable systems and infections on a daily basis thanks to CTI. Important cyber threats with an impact on Belgium can therefore be analysed and mapped, and cyber incidents and data leaks can be detected on time. This enables the CCB to send targeted warnings to impacted organisations. In 2020, CERT.be distributed 630 targeted notifications and warnings to Belgian companies and organisations. Recently, CTI made it possible for the CCB to warn a thousand Belgian companies using Microsoft Exchange Servers for an important and actively exploited system vulnerability. CTI are a reliable and important source for the CCB to regularly publish advice or advice and white papers. They aim to disseminate thematic technical information to ICT professionals and inform them on how to deal with certain cyber attacks and threats. CTI is also useful to the population. This year, the CCB will launch the safeon web application that will warn citizens about cybercrime and vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I think it makes sense to study this in detail, but I keep asking myself whether this is a sensible use of resources, especially given the shortcomings that exist today in the security of the State and in the other intelligence services. In addition to the fact that Europol and Interpol are doing so, and therefore the funds are being spent inefficiently, the Belgian authorities are paying for information that cannot really be used. What does the CCB actually do with this very expensively purchased information? They have no police powers and cannot even exchange information with our intelligence services such as the Security of the State, who can use this information. At least that's how I understood it. Prime Minister, I think that in this case the resources could be better used, such as strengthening our police, the inspection services ADIV and State security. I will continue to study your answer and see to what extent I can continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u39	Prime Minister, I recently received the following legitimate question from a citizen. Let me quote them: "Does there exist a book, an app or something like that to look up public phone numbers? Where can people go if they want to find a telephone number, e-mail address, website or just an address of a public service, for example city halls, county authorities, ministries, OCMWs, child abuse aid groups or domestic violence, traffic, road works, hospitals, general practitioners' wards, police, fire department, taxes, VAT, electricity and water services. Where can we go to report something? Consulting the white guide is hopeless. Why are these addresses and information not available on one site, one app or in one booklet? Can those data, which are very useful to the population, not be known?" So much for my quote. The questions seem clear to me. Is there a central system in which all contact details of public services and authorities are centrally accessible or is there an interest in developing such a system? What is your opinion on a system where all contact details can be consulted via one overarching channel? Not everyone has the necessary digital skills and not everyone uses the Internet. We must not lose sight of those who do not find their way on the digital information highway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u40	I understand the thrust of the question, but I can confirm that there is no central system in which all contact details of public services and authorities can be consulted. First of all, the question arises as to whether the current situation calls for improvement at all. Today, all contact details may be available via the internet and can easily be found via search engines. Depending on the scope of public services, contact details are made available on the organisation's own website, on a municipal or urban website, on a community or regional website and on the federal websites, for example also on the portal belgium.be. In some municipalities there are also public and private initiatives to provide information guides with contact information from public service providers. A local approach may be a more efficient approach than, for example, making one guide for the whole of Belgium, for example, listing all intercommunals or municipal authorities and so on. The central initiative would require a significant budget for the design and realisation of the website or app and additional staff to search, collect, make available and, above all, keep it constantly up-to-date. There is therefore a problem of liability. There are currently no plans to develop such a system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u41	I am somewhat sorry that there is no interest in developing such a system. You are only talking about the people who are digitally skilled, who can consult websites and the like. There is still an important group in our population that is not digitally skilled. The government is ultimately at the service of the citizen. It is therefore the normal thing that that government can easily be contacted by that citizen. Hopefully there will be some change of direction and work will be done to improve the accessibility of the government. I note that it is still looking on various websites to get contact information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 14 March 2021, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) indicated that "more than 1,000 Microsoft Exchange servers were vulnerable", that this vulnerability was actively exploited by criminal organisations and that a number of organisations and companies had been affected. The risk of a tsunami of cyber attacks on vulnerable organizations was then raised. On March 17, 2021, the CWB provided some clarification as to the causes and nature of the vulnerability of Microsoft Exchange servers and referred to a series of actions to counter their exploitation by cyber criminals. Minister, can we be informed of the scale of the cyber attacks on Belgian organisations and companies so far? In its press release, the CWB advised companies and organisations that are experiencing difficulties with the steps indicated to organisations and companies using Exchange Online - steps that I must admit seem quite complex - to use an ICT partner or an external expert to carry out these actions. However, has additional assistance from the CWB been provided to affected organizations and businesses? Is the vulnerability of Microsoft Exchange servers so far resolved? Finally, the CWB communiqué indicated that some malicious groups install web shells in companies, allowing them to access and control remotely via an online server and that, in this way, they can, so to speak, keep a line of communication open with their targets and launch subsequent attacks. This suggests that there may still be a danger for organizations and businesses, even if server vulnerability is resolved. Are there any solutions to address this aspect of the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u43	Mr.Senesael, Microsoft discovered a series of vulnerabilities on the Exchange server on March 2nd and announced that hackers had introduced them into many IT servers of companies, organizations and public services around the world since January. These are zero-day attacks in which hackers exploit a known flaw in software before developers are aware of it and can correct it. The period between the moment of knowledge of vulnerability and correction is called zero-day. In this case, this was the period from January to March of this year. These attacks are dangerous because they are carried out at a time when no protection is possible. On March 3, the CWB issued a first notice on Microsoft Exchange vulnerabilities. On 11 March, the CWB began sending targeted alerts to all relevant organisations in Belgium. In total, the CWB was able to alert more than a thousand Belgian companies using Microsoft Exchange servers. Almost 95% of them have taken action and made the necessary updates. From the list of vulnerable servers, the CWB was also able to detect 370 systems where a form of intrusion had taken place. The malicious entities have thus entered these systems and are about to take action. To do this, criminal servers install web shells that give them remote access and control via online servers. Thus, they can keep an open line of communication to launch an attack afterwards. In addition, hackers may have installed other malware in order to mount a subsequent attack, such as with ransomware. The CWB's opinions are intended for IT managers with the necessary baggage to operate them. The CWB will always help victims of ransomware and malware and provide them with a variety of accessible information packages that they can use to detect and address problems and intrusions into their system. In response to Microsoft Exchange vulnerabilities, Microsoft has launched a tool to automate the process of customers with little IT expertise. In the opinion and on the websites of the CWB and CERT.be - the operational service of the CWB - reference is made to this tool: the one click Microsoft Exchange on first migration tool. Microsoft has been providing updates since March 2 to address vulnerabilities in Microsoft Exchange servers. The CWB provided a detailed report on this issue in its opinion. Companies and organisations using Microsoft Exchange with a hybrid configuration or a server (...) Exchange for administrative communications must perform the following actions: update systems; delete web shells; check what happened with web shells; identify any suspicious activity. Microsoft has published a comprehensive incident response guide, providing the necessary information. It is referred to in the notice and on the websites of the CWB and CERT.be, the operational service of the CWB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u44	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You've redone the history of these cyber attacks. It's very interesting to reform the context. Thank you also for the actions that have been carried out, the solutions to the vulnerabilities that you have cited. I think that this is really a rather sensitive issue, which will have to be followed with great vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u45	Mrs Pas (S). - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. 55016808C not set.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u46	Mr President, I shall confine myself to one question. After all, I was able to look at the other two questions with the Prime Minister during the plenary session. Mr Prime Minister, it goes without saying that a night clock, which we have fortunately now been able to say goodbye to, is a very far-reaching measure. We have to think about this for a moment, because we must never rule out the possibility of resorting to such measures again in the future. It is very important that we know the impact of a particular measure on the phenomenon that we want to combat. It is not enough, of course, for us to take some measures on the ground. We do need to be reasonable and to act efficiently and effectively. I have already made a number of attempts to find out on which scientific or other evidence-based basis supports a decision such as the night clock. Finally, we have citizens locked up at home at night. That is what it is all about. There must be very serious and good reasons to do so. You have usually answered that question with many generalities. In the Internal Affairs Commission of 21 April 2021, to which I referred at the previous committee session at which you were present, you replied as follows. I quote: 'There was also a request' by me, by the way, 'to abolish the curfew and the night clock. This measure has helped in the area of enforcement." It should be noted that you limit basic rights as an enforcement measure. This is typical of regimes with which you do not want to be identified. Besides, within that same logic, a day clock wouldn't be a bad idea, especially around 24 hours or 23 hours, to let people still breathe outside their own home. Ernst Kuipers, chairman of the National Network Acute Care in the Netherlands, stated on 28 April in the Dutch media that the introduction of the night clock had little effect on our northern neighbours. I quote: "When the curfew was introduced, the calculation was that the number of infections would decrease by 10%. If you look at the course of hospitalisations over time, we saw no effect at both the introduction and the shifting." That is, of course, a sobering conclusion, if this is confirmed. Also, the stricter night-time regulation in Brussels and until recently also in Wallonia compared to Flanders does not seem to have had a positive impact on the infection rates. If we see that France with a draconian night clock cannot provide any better figures at all, on the contrary perhaps, then I do not pretend to have scientifically shown that the night clock did not work. However, these data do not indicate that the night clock has had a positive impact on the fight against the corona virus. That is why I would like to ask you if you already have any information in the meantime that the introduction of the night or curfew has had an impact. How big was it? On the basis of which investigation do you arrive at those conclusions, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u47	Mr De Roover, the night clock has now been abolished. It was about the ban to be on the public road between midnight and 5:00 in the morning. I have repeatedly reiterated that this was a drastic measure that would not last a second longer than was necessary, because it is indeed a very substantial restriction of rights and freedoms. The measure was introduced because it was absolutely necessary to intervene and limit the spread of the virus when our hospital capacity threatened to become saturated. In this context, the measures we are taking should not be seen separately, but as a coherent whole in which different measures reinforce each other. Nor is it scientifically possible to attach an exact figure to one measure or another. An important objective of this measure was the need to combat illegal meetings effectively. I am talking about meetings with many people where sanitary measures are totally violated, for example under the influence of alcohol or other means. There was undoubtedly a risk that such meetings could take place in private and public places during the night hours, with a major effect on the spread of the virus. A curfew was, in this context, a proportionate and temporary measure that could be justified. By taking such measures, we have been able to avoid, for example, closing our schools or further restricting other social or professional contacts. The government and the Consultative Committee, because these decisions have been taken in the Consultation Committee, have always made a wide-ranging assessment of the welfare of the whole population. I would add that the use of the night clock was not only advocated by some in the Conciliation Committee. On 16 March 2020, the mayor of Flanders' largest city called for the curfew and the prohibition of cooperation in all Flemish municipalities. I quote: "I would like to call on the federal government to declare a night-time exit ban, for example from 22 hours for all non-essential movements." I would like to say that everyone has tried at difficult times to take measures to safeguard our people. I am not quoting the mayor of the largest city in Flanders to say that he was right or wrong. I do this earlier to point out that everyone has tried to take measures that were balanced and to do everything possible to protect the health of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u48	Prime Minister, you cannot fail to make every effort to hide behind something the N-VA would have said or done. Fortunately, the N-VA exists, otherwise you wouldn't have any arguments. I have noted, however, that you are referring to a ruling of 16 March. That was right after the corona virus broke out. At that time, in these acute circumstances, the adoption or initiation of certain measures is one thing. The fact that you are trying to establish a link between that fact and maintaining such measures for months shows that you are not comfortable here. Of course, you always feel at ease wherever you go, no matter what happens. That may at some point be a dangerous attitude to adopt. I shall confine myself to your reply. You say the effect cannot be measured. Two sentences further, you say that this measure has allowed you to avoid closing the schools. What is it now? Ah, it's all about the measures. Perhaps you could have introduced a day clock, then you could have now answered that the whole package of measures has ensured that schools should not be closed down. You make connections here that are simply insinuated, without any justification. If you say that the effect cannot be measured, I can only conclude that your policy is based on wet fingering. You're gonna take a few more meds from the medicine cabinet. Maybe one of them will help with headaches. Mr Prime Minister, this is a particularly dangerous way of pursuing policy, especially when it comes to measures which cannot be simply said to be tried out, especially when it comes to fundamental and freedom-limiting measures. I've asked you about this on a regular basis. I finally, I think, have the final answer: you do not know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u49	It's 4:00 p.m. and we need to stop our work with the Prime Minister. The other questions will be discussed at a forthcoming committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u50	Mr President, is it possible to turn questions into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic511x.u51	You can share that with the secretariat, no problem.
