ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u1	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the public consultation on the planned wind farm was extended until 20 December 2020. Only after this consultation would the project developers decide definitively whether to continue with the project. Minister, you already had contact with the French Ambassador in October 2020 and it was agreed with the Commission nationale du débat public to give Belgian stakeholders the opportunity to make their contribution to the public consultation. There was an important digital consultation meeting on 3 December 2020. Afterwards it was communicated. The coastal mayors involved were present. I assume that representatives of the port of Ostend were also present. You continue to propose a negotiated solution. You may have taken on a French law firm, but first you want to give the negotiation process every opportunity. What exactly was the coordinated approach of the Belgian government? You were going to coordinate regional advice. Of course, an opinion has also been delivered at federal level. What did that advice say? What are the next steps in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat everything Mr Ravyts said in his introduction. At the end of December, the public consultation ended on that project off the coast of Dunkirk and actually on a large part of our coast. I have a few questions about this. Do the Belgian stakeholders have had a chance to express their concerns and to ask their questions in the context of the consultation procedure? How do you evaluate that? Was a coordinated Belgian position taken by all concerned? What is your own evaluation of the info meeting, which took place online because of corona on December 3rd? There was work again after that meeting. The consultation is complete. What are the next steps in the procedure on the French side?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u3	Mr Loones, I do not see Mrs Ingels asking her question, but I assume you are going to speak for your group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u4	Mr President, we have indeed agreed to this, also because I live on the West Coast, near the border with France. From where I live in Oostduinkerke we will also be able to see those mills. That is a theme that lives very strongly locally. The various municipal councils of Nieuwpoort, De Panne and my own municipality of Koksijde have already expressed their opinion on this. It is a huge project: it is about a maximum of 46 windmills that can be 260 meters high. These are pretty much the highest mills being built today in the world. In addition, they would only be about 10 kilometres from the coast. So they will be very visible and also have an impact on a number of other things, such as our sailing routes. By comparison, the mills that are now installed with us are about 160 meters high. The French mills will be more than 100 metres higher. Good questions have already been asked. I'm just filling in. Minister, I know there has been a consultation. I know that the municipalities and the federal government have also been active in France as well as in yourself, Minister. However, it would be good to have a debriefing of the meetings you had there. Secondly, how do you assess the impact of the wind farm in concrete terms, not only on the visual aspect but also on our sailing routes and on our marine spatial use on this site? Third, has anyone ever been investigated to work together? Your government will not be averse to that. Our government and the French government could perhaps develop a project together around windmills, as they are in a border zone? It should be done farther off the coast, where there would be no or much less damage for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u5	Mr President, I myself am East Flanders, but I am also concerned about our North Sea coast. I will also refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u6	In a topical debate, members of other groups may also speak, but I do not see anyone asking for the floor. [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u7	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 December 2020, a public consultation meeting was indeed organised on our explicit question, on our initiative, which was not strictly necessary. We organized it. Both the project developers EMD and RTE, the French energy administration and the French representatives of the préfet maritime took part. On the Belgian side, on behalf of the federal government, I gave the floor after an introduction to the various stakeholders who were well placed to reflect our concerns. In addition, Dirk Declerck, the CEO of the Port of Ostend, was responsible for the obstruction of shipping routes. Bram Degrieck, mayor of De Panne, was also present as representative of the coastal communities with an impact on their sea view. There was also Colonel Philippe Venet of Defence on the impact on air traffic and the Search & Rescue of the Belgian army. Sarah Vanden Eede, as representative of the organisation 4SEA, a partnership with WWF, Natuurpunt, BBL and Greenpeace, spoke about the impact on the environment and the marine protected area of Flemish Banks. The meeting did indeed go online because of the corona measures. She was introduced by two ladies and could be freely followed by everyone. I can't give you a detailed report. That would lead us too far, but I would like to tell you the most important points. First of all, we stressed that our country was not heard, despite explicit and repeated pressure, when the location of that zone was established in 2016. This has led us to face a number of problems that need to be resolved. What are the problems? Firstly, the historic shipping routes between our country and the United Kingdom become unavailable or unusable as a result of the construction of the wind farm. Alternative routes were examined, but are practically not feasible or not commercially viable. Also the fact that there is no ferry connection anymore today does not exclude the possibility of a new ferry connection in the future. Conversations with interested parties are in any case heavily mortgaged by the possible construction of that wind farm. In addition, this route is often used by other sea-going vessels and fishing boats. It is therefore necessary to ensure that these routes are safeguarded. I come to a second objection. Around the wind farm France provides a safety distance of 1.5 nautical miles, which is 3 kilometres. By comparison, in Belgium, a safety distance of 500 metres has been established around the first offshore zone. The planned location for the Dunkirk park is on the French-Belgian border and we have therefore pointed out to France that the planned safety perimeter should be entirely on French territory and should not be on Belgian territory. In concrete terms, for them, the area on which windmills can be built is reduced by almost half. Thirdly, the planned location is in French waters, but the airspace above it is controlled by Belgium. This means that obstacles or windmills in this zone should not exceed 126 metres in order not to disturb air traffic. The current plans refer to windmills that can be up to 300 meters high. Such high obstacles are therefore detrimental to our Belgian Defence, who is responsible for the Search & Rescue in this area. For this purpose they use rescue helicopters with specialised radars, which can be disturbed by obstacles at sea. When these helicopters have to fly around or over such a park, valuable time is wasted. You know that it is important for rescue operations at sea not to waste time. Under no circumstances will Belgium play with human lives. We take this very seriously and it has to be resolved. I come to the fourth objection. You will understand that windmills up to 300 metres high are also a thorn in the eye of our coastal communities, especially if they are very close to the coastline. It is true that the windmills off the coast of Knokke are also high; however, they are only half as high and are twice as far in the sea, so that one can hardly be those windmills, unless the weather is beautiful. The obstacle to the sea view by the park planned in Dunkirk is therefore not to be underestimated. The consequences for our coastal inhabitants, second-time residents, tourism and the economy will be great. My staff and I have been in contact with the coastal mayors of De Panne, Koksijde and Nieuwpoort on several occasions. The municipality of Middelkerke has also given us its objections. So I support their criticism. That is why we gave their representative Bram Degrieck, mayor of De Panne, the floor at the meeting. Mr Degrieck also went to Paris several times to consult with the French parties involved. The concerns of the coastal mayors were clearly expressed during the public consultation. Fifthly, we have also mentioned that the windmills are planned in nature reserve adjacent to the Belgian Natura 2000 area of Flemish Banks. We absolutely must avoid that the construction of the park would have a negative impact on our protected areas. Granted, we also want to build windmills in nature reserve, but we have no less than 24 studies running under which conditions these windmills can be built. This appropriate assessment is also an obligation for France to comply with. This is based on European directives and rules. Finally, we have proposed to shift the location of the wind farm more northwards. This alternative location already protects the shipping routes, it is located outside the airspace controlled by Belgium and significantly reduces the impact on the sea view. As regards the impact on the environment, Belgium has offered to share the results of our studies and to cooperate in any additional studies. Elijah is also willing to share his knowledge and expertise that it has already built up at sea. The construction of a French-Belgian park is not at issue, because it is not a solution to our problems. An alternative location may be. We will of course also work together to develop the parks on both sides of the border. That also creates opportunities. I can be brief about possible studies of alternatives. It is not for Belgium to do the homework of France. When establishing the location, France was kept by European regulations to investigate alternatives. In our response to France, we also requested additional information on this matter. Mr President, I apologise for this comprehensive answer, but this is an important issue, not only for West Flanders but for the whole country. All these comments, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the proposal for an alternative location, we have of course put them on paper and sent them as a Belgian position to the Commission nationale du débat public, the project developers, the cabinet of Minister Pompili and even to President Macron's cabinet. Through the secretariat of your committee, Mr President, I will have a copy of our Belgian position delivered to all members of the committee. What's the next move? I see two possibilities or two tracks. Firstly, it is now formally awaiting the processing of the comments submitted in the public consultation that ended on 20 December 2020. The two electricity companies EMD and RTE must indicate how they take into account all the concerns expressed in the public consultation and decide whether they wish to continue with this project. In the positive case, they will launch and/or continue the necessary studies and investigations with a view to obtaining the necessary permits to build the park. After all, there are still no such permits. This is particularly important for the environment, as a public consultation will be organised around environmental impacts. In this context, French legislation stipulates that neighbouring countries must be involved. Despite this obligation, we have already indicated to France that we will also participate actively in this consultation. So they've been warned. The issue of licences is the responsibility of the French authorities, just as it is our responsibility to remind them of the problems that exist. Legally, we cannot change that; it is a matter of the sovereignty of the country to lay down the rules that apply on its territory. Each country must, of course, take account of the interests of neighbouring countries. Any legal action has not yet been taken, as no permits have been issued at this stage that we could challenge. If we go ahead and we get permits, we will, of course, consider it. A second track is the informal and diplomatic trail. We are, of course, continuing the dialogue and doing so at all levels, up to the level of contacts between our Prime Minister and the French President. There's been a contact before Christmas, you know that. This issue has been explicitly raised in my question. I also recently invited the developers and the staff of Minister Pompili to come to our offices to continue the consultation. I would also like to inform you that this dossier has also been closely monitored within the federal government, which has also agreed to the Belgian position as I have submitted and which also agreed to continue the diplomatic talks, including at the level of foreign affairs. I have not yet had contact with the French Minister for Energy, as this dossier is in the hands of the Minister responsible for the Ecological Transition, Mrs Barbara Pompili. Finally, the dialogue is still the best and quickest way for me to find an acceptable and legally secure solution for all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u9	Thank you, Minister. Even in Limburg, the importance of this issue has not escaped our attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and transparent reply on the state of play. I was not aware of the important problem of the airspace controlled by Belgium in that place. I think that, as you have stressed, it is indeed a very important element, alongside the other equally important elements. It is now waiting to see how the French and the project developers react in particular. It's gonna be scared to wait. I agree with the line and strategy you are pursuing for the time being. It was already written in the press that Vincent Van Quickenborne and the mayors have a full alternative. I understand that this is part of the profiling and I support the alternative, further into the sea, too, because that seems logical to me. I also think it is right that there should be an exchange of views on the study work to include the environmental impact. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the very detailed and clear answer. It is good that it was made clear again why this project is so negative for our country. I am pleased that the necessary things have been done on the initiative of you and your staff. From your reply, I understand that all stakeholders, however diverse along our side of the border, have been able to make their say through your initiative. As a result, France is also very well informed about our grievances, our questions and our problems with the project. There is a clear path, a clearly negotiated strategy, which should be more frequent. France, as a sovereign nation, is a good southern neighbor of ours, but that does not mean that the country can do what it wants. Because of your strategy, I think we are also showing this clearly. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your detailed reply with some clear statements is important and I certainly welcome it. I remember that the proposal by the mayor of De Panne, to create a joint French-Belgian park, is not on the table because that would not solve the problem. There is therefore no alternative. I also remember that you will certainly consider legal action when the moment comes. When we go a little further in the procedure, legal action does indeed make sense. In your reply I do hear some arguments that can be played out in a legal procedure. You mentioned the safety zone, the airspace and also the nature reserve. With regard to the latter, you can also put additional pressure through Europe. I think it is important to also show France that you do not exclude legal action, for which I thank you. That brings me to the political pressure. We note that your government is pursuing good relations with France. In his post, the Prime Minister paid his first international visit to France, a physical visit. Minister Dedonder also made her first visit to France via digital means. Well, these visits may also be useful for us. We don't need to be at the service, we can get something out of it ourselves. In this project, the possibility of profit is typically on our side. That is why I propose that you keep the political pressure high. Finally, you mentioned the visual damage. You said windmills can be seen, especially in beautiful weather. It is very often beautiful weather with us on the Flemish Coast. Everyone's always welcome. Let us hope that this view will remain intact in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u13	Mr President, Minister, you have made a number of very pertinent remarks. I hear there are alternative slopes, like another location, the adjustment of altitude and legal possibilities. In any case, it is good that our country has delivered its position, that it will remain active, will engage in dialogue and will follow it closely. We shall do the same from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u14	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and clear answer. It is clear that the project has only negative consequences for Belgium. It's actually a lot worse than I originally thought. I was not yet aware of the negative aspect of aviation. Thank you for your clarity and transparency. I agree with you that we must do everything we can to stop this. I think it is positive that consideration is also being given to possible alternatives. It is also important that we speak with one voice in Belgium, from local to federal level. There must be proper consultation there and we must coordinate it. If we do not get there with the legal procedures, I hope that we will get out through dialogue. After all, we must use all possible means, including the informal circuit, to put this on the agenda. Now we are waiting to see how this will proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u15	Mr Minister, perhaps I have misunderstood something, because several colleagues have replicated that from your answer they take the view that alternative slopes are possible. However, I have understood your answer in a different way, namely that the park as it stands is actually harmful. If it is laid deeper into the sea, it remains equally harmful, which is not a solution. As far as we're concerned, the park shouldn't be there. Did I misinterpret that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u16	You have indeed misinterpreted that because there is indeed an alternative, namely a park that is more northward. That would not have the listed disadvantages. By the way, that is a park that we could build together, the proposal we make to our French colleagues. The condition is that the first zone, which is harmful, is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u17	Thank you for the clarification. So that's pretty much the slope of the mayor of De Panne, but much deeper into the sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u18	Mr President, I have questions in another committee. So I'm gonna stick with the reference to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u19	Between 16 and 20 November, the Environment Committee of the International Maritime Organisation adopted the proposal to introduce an energy label for shipping. This system should lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. However, climate organisations strongly criticise. This plan will enable the sector to continue with emissions of 1 billion tonnes of greenhouse gases per year until 2030. The plan aims to classify all ships into energy classes from 2023 onwards. A ship scores at least a C, which stands for average. Shipping companies that fail to achieve this three years in a row must then make an improvement plan. The criticism focuses on the lack of sanctions for those who fail to comply with the rules for ships. The scheme would be evaluated in 2026. What is new is that the system would also apply to existing ships. The plan goes to the Member States. They have six months to respond. Then it comes back to the Marine Environment Protection Committee, where it will be on the agenda in June. The context is well known: the European Parliament has already expressed its opinion on the inclusion of shipping in the ETS system, with binding conditions for shipping companies to reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2030. Of course, there is the enhanced climate target for 2030 and the planned expansion of the ETS system. Actually, there's a mismatch. The European Shipowners' Association, of course, is not very satisfied and states that the international negotiations on the implementation of the International Maritime Organisation's initial strategy can undermine and increase tensions with third countries. Mr Van Quickenborne, you are very concerned about this, just like your predecessor. There is a low emission zone in the North Sea from 1 January. A few weeks ago, you were in a sniffer plane and you were looking for pollution above the North Sea. We saw the beautiful picture. What will Belgium's substantive response be to this ongoing proposal, given the European Commission's intention to include the maritime sector under the European ETS system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in 2018, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) adopted the strategy for reducing ship emissions. It adopted the ambition to reduce and halve CO2 emissions from international shipping by at least 40% by 2030 by 2050. In 2018, therefore, it was agreed to take measures. Discussions on short-term measures were held in the MEPC 75 Committee, which met in November 2020. During this discussion, our country has repeatedly stressed and explicitly included in official reports and working documents that more ambition is needed to achieve the objectives set out in the initial IMO Strategy and the Paris Climate Agreement. We work in the High Ambition Coalition for Shipping with like-minded ambitious countries to achieve effective results, but ultimately more than 174 countries need to reach an agreement. These are the countries that make up the IMO. The final result is an international compromise which had the merit of being able to discuss measures for the first time, which was unthinkable for a long time. On this basis, further work will be carried out in preparation for the next working groups in 2021. Due to the unique international nature of shipping, the rules should be established internationally in order to ensure a level playing field. Frankly, the result achieved is not what we have been striving for. We have also had this explicitly recorded. The result is an energy label, similar to refrigerators, which should lead to a reduction in emissions. The introduction of a rating system for ships A to E will require technical and operational measures for ships to reduce their emissions. Ports and other parties will also better assess which ships are better and worse for the environment and can match incentives. It is important to note that this legislature too, namely in 2023, will review the IMO strategy. In particular, it will be aligned with Europe's climate agreement and Europe's new ambitions. Belgium, as I have already mentioned in my policy paper, will once again call for an ambitious reduction in shipping emissions of at least 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. If that is a realistic objective, Mr Ravyts will ask me. My answer is yes, because our Belgian shipowners already prove that. They established an international think tank in 2016 and developed the first hydrogen-powered passenger ship with the Hydroville. It is therefore important to give sufficient impetus to the sector. At the same time, we must also offer alternative fuels in ports. Think of hydrogen, among other things. Secondly, discussions are currently taking place on the introduction and practical implementation of shipping under the ETS system. There is a proposal from the European Parliament to integrate this into a European regulation. It is important that these future discussions run in parallel with the IMO negotiations on medium- and long-term measures. I repeat that, given the international nature of shipping, it is necessary to ensure that the level playing field for EU ports and the EU fleet vis-à-vis ports and ships outside the European Union is guaranteed. Belgium will therefore support measures consistent with those adopted at higher level. Finally, it is clear that only measures taken worldwide can ensure that the objectives set out in the Paris Climate Agreement are achieved and thus combat climate change. As you can see, we are eternal advocates of shipping's contributions to the reduction of emissions. For example, we already carry out effective controls with a sniffer plane on nitrogen, sulphur and black carbon, on which Mr Pillen will be asking. Soon there will be sensors on windmills. Belgium is an international example in this respect. We also do this for other countries. For example, for the Netherlands, we make our sniffer aircraft available and carry out the same controls over the Dutch coastal zone. Those planes are very effective. We are in favour of this, and we are very proud of it. Mr President, that shows how a small country can be large.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u21	That's a good decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u22	Minister, it will certainly be necessary for us to show ourselves as a small country. The attitude of the International Maritime Organisation is outdated, as it is not ambitious. Moreover, it is difficult to adopt a position in line with European climate objectives. This shows that there is still a lot of work to be done. I also hear you call for an active Belgian attitude so that we can make progress in this area, whatever is necessary. The objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement should also apply to shipping and, in fact, to all sectors. Environmental organisations have already pointed out that the next ten years will be crucial for making efforts. Shipping is certainly an important player. So the story is absolutely being prosecuted. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course I am not afraid of Belgian ambitions, given that Belgium is one of the driving members of the High Ambition Coalition for Shipping Emissions Reduction. I note that the Belgian shipowners show a great deal of willingness. You also referred to hydrogen. This afternoon, a proposal for a resolution of Flemish Interest on hydrogen will be discussed in the course of the work. We are definitely asking for this. Only we say that a level playing field is important. We will see to what extent everyone in the IMO gets involved in the story. I hope so, for the climate and for the environment, but the level playing field remains, of course, a great concern for our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u24	Question No 55011936C by Mr Cogolati is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u25	You have already mentioned this, Minister, and thank you for that. Efforts are also being made in the maritime field to ensure environmental friendliness. Belgium takes this battle very seriously, as you do. Last week we saw on television that you yourself were on inspection above the North Sea. Since 2015, Belgium has been part of the SECA zone, where more stringent standards apply to sulphur emissions from ships than in the rest of the world and since two weeks ago we are also part of the NECA zone, where nitrogen should also be reduced. In your very interesting policy paper, you announced that you would want to start testing again this year to check the emissions of soot, black carbon. The results of the tests carried out by Belgium will be used to develop new regulations at international level. I have the following specific questions, Minister. What is the time frame for these tests and for their follow-up? How do these tests work? Which Belgian research partners are involved? Do you or the Belgian research partners maintain international contacts in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u26	Mr. Secretary, I've seen you on television, too. You were dressed for your air baptism in a bright red eye-blinding suit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u27	Mr President, the suit was red indeed, because I have to stand out in an emergency at sea. After all, a blue suit in a blue sea is not visible enough. Mr Pillen, as you say correctly, Belgium has had its own low emission zone over the North Sea since this year. Both sulphur and nitrogen were regulated internationally. However, the emissions of black carbon, or soot, from ships are currently not internationally determined. The International Maritime Organisation called for data collection so that an international framework could be developed on this basis. Belgium is an active member of IMO and because of our unique location on one of the busiest shipping routes in the world, our country is ideally placed to collect a lot of data in the short term. We will use this and a budget for a sensor for black carbon was provided. The purchase process is ongoing and the installation of that sensor, both to test and to start, will take place this year. How are the tests going? Two methods of data collection will be used. Firstly, by placing an additional sensor on the plane, which will be flown through the smoke plume of a ship for a short time. The operator will be able to see in real time the exact composition of the ship's exhaust gases. I've been able to determine that with my own eyes. That's all very professional. A second method is the installation of a MAX-DOAS monitoring system, which stands for Multi-Axis Differential Optical Absorption Spectroscopy, a sensor on a windmill in the current offshore zone close to the international shipping routes. Such a monitoring system can identify chemical components such as sulphur, nitrogen and black carbon, as well as the amount of these substances emitted by sunlight. Due to the location near the shipping route hundreds of ships can be checked daily. The sensor on the plane is a temporary control while the sensor on the windmill is working permanently. No one will be able to escape our control so that there will be no more impunity. The necessary budgets and administrative preparations were also made for this project. The assembly of the device can begin after some initial tests. At the end of this year, early 2022 it will be installed effectively on a windmill. The research partners concerned are four federal services, the Environment DG, the Maritime DG, MUMM and the Belgian Institute for Space Aeronomy. The knowledge and information gained through this project will be shared with our international contacts. Only through international cooperation can innovative projects succeed. The main research bodies involved in this project are the Technical University of Gothenburg, the University of Bremen and the Finnish Meteorological Institute. As you can see, we work very closely together internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u28	Mr Minister, I will read your answer again because it was very technical. Above all, I remember that we are leading the way in terms of environmental friendliness at sea, which is, of course, very positive. We work together with international experts to make our sea a test ground for innovation. That is something I particularly like to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u29	Mr. Secretary, I saw the famous Tom Waes go underwater, looking for shipwrecks, in his beautiful television series Travel Waes. Of course, it makes perfect sense for him to start that series in West Flanders. I am sure you will agree with me on this, Minister. The legal and legal aspects of protecting our cultural heritage under water have been highlighted as a priority in your policy paper. I have read it very carefully, as you can see. Eleven of the 280 wrecks in our part of the North Sea, which is only a small part of the North Sea, seemingly only 0.5 % of wrecks were recognised as underwater heritage, nine of which were subject to additional protection measures. Much preparatory work was done for that yard during the previous legislature, but the political situation did not allow it to be finalised. Mr Minister, have you taken any concrete steps for this yard? As far as the research institutions are concerned, the preparatory work involved, among other things, Ghent University. How do you see the further cooperation with experts and research institutes on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u30	Mr Pillen, what steps have we taken? The bill to ensure better protection of shipwrecks was submitted to the Council of Ministers by my predecessor, Philippe De Backer, on 21 September 2018, at the beginning of the autumn, but unfortunately the fall of the government, Mr Loones, prevented it from being dealt with further. Despite the two years delay, we are starting work again. The draft law will replace the 2014 law and bring it fully in line with the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Cultural Heritage Underwater. When I took office in October, I also said this in the discussion of my policy paper in this committee, and I asked my staff to work on that regulation very quickly. The staff are good, very good, because the text has now been adapted to the opinion of the Council of State. In view of the new legislature, a new positive opinion from the Finance Inspector and the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget were also requested and received. The dossier will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for a second reading, after which it will be presented in Parliament, in your committee, Mr President. Following the parliamentary procedure, the necessary implementing decisions will also be taken. I come to your second question, about the experts and research institutions. With regard to Ghent University, you will undoubtedly refer to the results of the SeArch study, which it carried out together with other scientific institutions. The recommendations contained in that study are indeed taken into account and we are taking much into account in the new regulation which will ensure better protection of wrecks. For example, it is now stipulated that it is not for the North Sea Minister to determine whether a wreck is going to be flooded with the status of heritage, but that all wrecks over 100 years of age automatically acquire the status of cultural heritage under water. It is a question of correcting a mistake made by one of my predecessors, Philippe De Backer, but a predecessor whose name I do not mention now in the world of the UNESCO Convention. The law goes even further, in the sense that even younger but valuable wrecks, for example wrecks of the Second World War, can obtain the status, regardless of their location in the exclusive economic zone or the territorial sea, which are two different things, as you know. I would also like to tell you that last year the Flemish Marine Institute (VLIZ) produced a study in which research reports were prepared on more than fifty wrecks located in the Belgian part of the North Sea. All the wrecks from those reports have been underwater for over a hundred years. Those research reports identified, among other things, the historical data, the location and condition of the wreck. A recommendation was also made for each of these wrecks for their concrete protection. Once the new legislation comes into force, I will therefore take the necessary initiatives. Moreover, important for the whole of North Sea policy, we will continue to work with experts and research institutions in the future. After all, there are more than 200 wrecks in the North Sea for which no research report has yet been prepared. The necessary information should also be collected for new findings. Furthermore, the various research institutions can also be used to study the heritage that has been extracted and to determine the conditions under which it is preserved in the best conditions. Finally, my aim is to ensure that the heritage remains at the disposal of the entire population as far as possible. Diving is an option, but not so easy, because it seems that the waters are cloudy, not of a brightness as in the Caribbean Sea. In the legislation we provide that museums and public authorities will also have the opportunity to purchase the listed heritage from the owner or finder if no owner is known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your very interesting and very complete answer. We are, of course, obliged to honour our past. I believe that we are doing this in a very good way on land, and it is good that we are also rolling it out in the sea. A legal and legal framework is therefore appropriate. It is true that the North Sea may be cloudy in certain places, but I have been told that there is a certain target audience for this too. If Corona has taught us anything in West Flanders, it is that we have to differentiate in the area of tourism. That is why I would like to support the idea of continuing diving as well, because that is a form of quality tourism in our North Sea that we can attract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u32	Mr President, Minister, over the past ten years, offshore wind has grown considerably in the North Sea, reaching a production capacity of 2,200 MW by January 1, 2021. Given the full operationality of the eight wind farms in the Belgian North Sea announced on 4 January by the Belgian Offshore Platform, we will increase from 6.7 TWh of electricity produced in 2020 to 8 TWh in 2021, equivalent to the electricity consumption of 2.2 million households or 10% of the total consumption in Belgium. Three other production areas have already been defined in our territorial waters, starting with the Princess Elizabeth area, where it is planned to double the wind production capacity to reach 4.5 GW. The problem is that, according to the Belgian Offshore Platform, "the construction works should remain at a standstill for a few years". I read that we should not see new wind turbines running at sea for about ten years, which is indeed, as the press reports, a major shutdown after the installation of 81 wind turbines for an additional installed capacity of 706 MW in 2020. Minister, do you have any data on the impact of the offshore wind brake on local economic activity? What is your analysis of Belgium's ability to increase its capacity for renewable energy at sea, at the very moment when the government is doing its utmost to meet our supply capacity to get out of nuclear power in 2025? Why is it not possible to schedule, before 2023, a call for tenders for offshore wind turbines in order to start as soon as possible the work necessary for the operationalization of a second offshore wind energy production area? Furthermore, what is the result of your possible exchanges with the Minister of Energy and with Elia regarding the latter's ability to transport the electricity produced in these new offshore areas? In particular, I read that Elia had to strengthen her transport capacity and that the necessary work in this framework would not be completed until 2028. I would therefore like a little more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u33	Mr. President, Mr.Ben Achour, in addition to the development phase since the development of the first wind farm in the coastal region, several companies have been established and branches have been opened to provide equipment and maintain wind farms. Existing wind farms are a natural anchor for these companies. Moreover, the sector is experiencing strong growth throughout Europe. The pioneering role we have played in the past, thanks to the government of Guy Verhofstadt, and the central situation in Belgium also offer our companies opportunities to develop more internationally. At the same time, during this legislature, we will do everything we can, with the federal government, to develop the new Princess Elizabeth area. In this connection, I would like to point out that the plan for the development of marine areas under which the new areas have been identified only came into force last year. Prior to the entry into force of this plan, my predecessor Philippe De Backer had already asked to carry out the necessary studies to determine the conditions under which wind turbines could be placed in a Natura 2000 zone. These studies began in 2019 and will continue until 2022. A task force was also set up at the time to develop legislation on public procurement, which should lead to prices consistent with the offshore wind energy market, and to determine and organize preliminary studies necessary for the construction of wind turbines. During the lengthy government negotiations, this task force – fortunately – continued to function, which allowed the previous government's timetable to be respected. Two preliminary studies have already been placed on the market. A first study will be published in the coming weeks and seven more studies will follow. No hindrance has therefore been placed on the continuation of further developments, on the contrary. The government agreement states that a 4 GW doubling of renewable energy from offshore wind is expected by 2030. Wind power production in the North Sea will therefore continue to be deployed. The second area of approximately 2 GW already decided will be carried out as soon as possible, in accordance with legal procedures. Several reinforcements of the electricity grid on land and at sea will be investigated, prepared and carried out as soon as possible. This will allow for as much renewable energy as possible to be injected into the grid as quickly as possible. In the meantime, the capacity of terrestrial solar and wind energy will continue to increase. An ambitious climate policy goes hand in hand with the transition to a sustainable energy system. It is essential that procurement remains secure, as is sustainability and financial accessibility. In order to ensure future supply, we support the development of the capacity charging mechanism, in line with the EU clean energy package. The transition to a sustainable energy system and security of energy supply cannot be considered separately from each other. These two elements form an integral part of the government agreement and the administrations and firms concerned are doing everything necessary to implement the government agreement. [[Mr Ben Achour, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, before this competition procedure can be launched, various steps still need to be carried out, including: the development of a regulatory framework pursuant to the law of 12 May 2019 with a view, inter alia, to the identification of the parcels subject to a new state concession and the identification of the location of the elements of the transmission and extension network of the Modular Offshore Grid; the conduct of the competition procedure, the conditions for the procedure for granting the various authorisations and the general conditions for the use of the parcels; the establishment of a compensation scheme for the holders concerned of a State concession, in the event that all or part of the extension of the Modular Offshore Grid is not in service on the given date or in the event of the total or partial unavailability of the Modular Offshore Grid after its entry into service.]] In addition, various pre-studies must be carried out to collect information on the conditions of the site through documentary studies and knowledge of land, wind and water, the results of which will be certified and made available to bidders. The completion of environmental studies makes it possible to assess the impact of future projects on the Natura 2000 area. In total, there are 24 studies, including Natura 2000. It must be confirmed that the strengthening of the onshore transport network, including obtaining the necessary authorisations, can be achieved in the envisaged timing. The aim of this approach is to use a competition procedure in combination with the procedure for placing larger parcels on the market and the preparation of studies under the coordination of the administration, the results of which are made available to potential tenderers. The objective is to significantly reduce the cost of support for the development of the new area compared to the first area. In this case, the scheme is quite different. For the second area, we carry out all the work, all the studies, all the permits, and after we initiate the competition procedure. That is why we need time, whereas in the first area, Mr Ben Achour, a candidate had to collect everything, i.e. studies, permits and construction. However, I fully agree with you, and that is what I said to the administration and to my cabinet: if we can go faster, we must do so. Suppose we can build this area in the next two or three years. That would be great. But in this case, there is a condition. As you correctly mention, in order to be able to connect the new generation capacities to the electricity transmission network, a strengthening of this network is necessary at the onshore and offshore level. For the development of onshore transport, this concerns the Ventilus projects in Flanders and Boucle du Hainaut in Wallonia. For these two projects, the procedures for the revision of the sector plan have been initiated and are under way at the level of the two regions concerned. I would like to point out that this authorisation process, both for Ventilus and for the Hainaut Loop, is a regional competence. It is therefore for the regional authorities to take the necessary steps to achieve this. This will therefore be an important procedure, with delicate elements on both the Flemish and Walloon sides. With regard to the offshore activities that Elia will have to carry out, I can confirm that the preparatory work respects the timetable and is closely monitored within the task force mentioned above. I've already talked to Mr. Chris Peeters, Elia's CEO.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u34	Minister, thank you for these answers that highlight the complexity of such an important issue. That's normal. In the face of this complexity, I wish you and I wish you the maximum of ambition and pragmatism that will be necessary to move forward. You mentioned the two projects, Boucle du Hainaut and Ventilus. These are complicated projects that cause some difficulties in the territories. However, it is essential to be able to make progress on these development projects in the North Sea. This is one of the conditions necessary to achieve our climate transition goals. We will therefore continue to support you fully but, once again, with maximum ambition and pragmatism. Both are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u35	Mr Minister, almost everything is settled in our country, unfortunately also at sea. Our politicians excel in inventing rules, and that is unfortunately also the case for pleasure sailing. Of course, a number of agreements are needed in the area of security, but sometimes it gets a little too detailed. I was, just like the sector, surprised by an additional royal decision of June 2019, just before the summer, while the water sports clubs still had questions about the licenses of a number of pleasure boats and also at Sport Flanders which, for example, develops educational activities at sea and questions about the permits. So we were a little surprised by that KB and certainly the Flemish administration had some questions. The coalition agreement contains a very nice passage on the possibility of implementing an asymmetric policy. So the government wants to see what the specific needs are in a particular part of our country's territory and then it will pursue an appropriate policy to meet those specific needs. So I was wondering if the result of 1 + 1 could not be 2 in this. There are questions about the royal decree. Are you planning an evaluation of this and, where necessary, an adjustment of it? Are you prepared to use the asymmetric control clause on this issue? It would give you a scoop if you were the prime minister in this legislature who would do that, so that would be one for the history books and the records.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u36	Mr Loones, I think that the policy paper 2.0 was a first, but for the North Sea we have not received any suggestion from the opposition. However, I would have liked to have dealt with that. In 2018, the full legislation on pleasure shipping was reviewed. In fact, in the KB to which you refer, a number of provisions were laid down, including the licences, equipment and registration. It is correct that a number of points still need to be clarified, but in the meantime they are also being addressed. For example, the rules laid down that a practical examination should be carried out for yachtman's driving licence from 1 January 2021. I already referred in my policy paper to 2020 as an annus horibilis, also for pleasure boating, in which lessons and events were cancelled and pleasure boating at sea was banned for a long time. In this context, the sector has asked me to postpone the introduction of the practical examination until 1 June 2021. I have answered this question: the KB, which first deals with practical examinations, was published last Wednesday in the Belgian Official Journal. All regulations on pleasure sailing are always submitted to the Regions for advice. In addition, they are members of the Committee on Pleasure, which examines the equivalence of licences, representatives of the Communities, and hence of the Flemish Community. To respond specifically to your question, I will continue to work closely with the sector and fully support it. In connection with a leading role for Sport Flanders, the division of powers is clearly stated in the special laws. Cooperation with the Communities and the Regions is proceeding very well. I would also like to refer to the positive advice that Flanders gives us. In this case too, there was a positive opinion from the Flemish Community. I would dare to follow such positive advice. My motto is that if we each do what we are expected to do in our domain, it will certainly benefit the sector. So, Mr Loones, for the time being, there are no plans to opt for an asymmetrical exercise of competence. There hasn't been any reason for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for being open to additional work where necessary. It is a good evolution that there is consultation between the different levels and the customer. It had escaped me that there was a publication in the Belgian Official Journal concerning this domain. Since last week we know that we need to keep a closer eye on the Belgian Official Journal. In that respect, I am also responsible. I missed it, but I'm sure I'll look it up. Other than that, I think it's a missed opportunity. You say there's good cooperation. That's good. A number of matters are being submitted to the Länder for their opinion, thank goodness. However, you refuse to give them the leading role for a piece. I do not think so, it is a paragraph of the coalition agreement. You say that if everyone stays on their own domain and wipes everyone in front of their own doors, the street will also be clean. This is in conflict with the coalition agreement, which states that the brooms can change hands without people having to move, so that other governments can also have a say without the change of formal powers. It's a missed opportunity. Minister, I call on you to at least keep this dialogue open and to respond to the needs of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I attach great importance to symbols and I believe that they should be handled with caution and that this should be framed. What's this all about? Pleasure vessels sailing at sea are required to register, but should also bear a flag in the rear, still the Belgian flag in this country. A change of law and a royal decision make it possible for the Belgian flag to have a crown on it. That's a little atypical in the nautical world. Traditionally, a ship may only carry such a flag if the King has been formally aboard. This has evolved over time. In the Netherlands, for example, all members of the royal yacht clubs may wear a Dutch flag with a crown. With us we have gone much wider and any member of a recognized yacht club can fly such a flag. That is special and yet an inflation of a symbol. I think we'd better be more careful with our symbols. I would ask that this use be reduced to the real essence and that only members of royal yacht clubs should be able to do so, provided that the Palace itself authorizes it to do so. That would be the same approach as in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u39	Mr President, Mr Loones, I did not know that you were so attached to the Belgian flag and the Belgian crown. Good thing there are still royalists in your party. That's interesting to know. Symbols can indeed be important. I'm glad you said that. In fact, the old royal decree on pleasure boating, which dates back to 1999 and was therefore 20 years old at the time of the revision of the legislation, provided that the yellow royal crown may stand on the national flag of recreational craft whose owner was a member of a yacht club approved by the Minister. That was the rule that then applied to wearing the flag with the crown, but in the meantime things have changed. Since the sixth state reform, the Federal Minister of the North Sea has no longer been competent to recognise yacht clubs, but the Regions, i.e. the Minister of Sport. That is what we have changed. Secondly, we have separated the flag from that recognition. In the 2019 Royal Decree, the obligation to take up the crown is replaced by a choice to do so. The choice lies with the yacht clubs, which can determine this in their statutes, as well as with the individual pleasure boater, who is completely free to include the crown in the national flag or not. Those are the rules with us. In this way a balance was found in the division of powers, with respect for the fact that Flanders is competent for the recognition of the yacht clubs and for the freedom of choice of clubs and individual yachtsmen. In this sense, we are probably a more liberal country than the Netherlands, Mr Loones. We believe in freedom of choice, in the Netherlands it is mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic338x.u40	We learn every day, Mr President. In the Netherlands it is not mandatory either, there one can do so, provided that one is a member of a royal club. I note, on the one hand, that you will not stand in the way of the inflation of the royal crown, Minister. I can only regret that. On the other hand, I note that you would like to stress that Flanders is competent in this matter. I hope, perhaps even with you, that in the future there will be a Flemish flag.
