ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u2	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meetings of 21 and 22 April 2021. We must approve the agenda of the 21 and 22 April 2021 sessions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u3	Pursuant to rule 116, the bill is subject to limited general discussion. A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u4	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u5	Madam President, since this is an oral report, I shall therefore speak as rapporteur. The report concerns Bill 1875 containing the second adjustment of the General Estimates for the year 2021. The Secretary of State for the Budget has developed her introductory statement to this bill, which deals with the increase of the Corona provision by EUR 1,186 billion. This increase is necessary, given the current circumstances of the pandemic crisis. The following Members took the floor during the discussion of the draft: MM. Sander Loones, Gilles Vanden Burre, Wouter Vermeersch, myself, Steven Mathei, Marco Van Hees, Christian Leysen, Joris Vandenbroucke and Mrs Vanessa Matz. The following topics were discussed, among others: grants to telecom operators for projects aimed at reducing the digital divide, the amounts to be paid urgently to the European Central Bank under pan-European funds, the increase in the provision of corona, a loan to Skeyes, a loan to ASBL Belgium Slot Coordination (BSC), the double right bridge, the budget for hospitals. The bill as a whole was passed, as tabled, by a vote of 10 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Its result is the following. In favour: Cécile Cornet, Dieter Vanbesien, Gilles Vanden Burre (Ecolo-Groen), Hugues Bayet and Ahmed Laaouej (PS), Marie-Christine Marghem and myself (MR), Steven Mathei (CD&V), Christian Leysen (Open Vld), Joris Vandenbroucke (Vooruit); voted against: Kurt Ravyts and Wouter Vermeersch (VB); abstained: Sander Loones and Wim Van der Donckt (N-VA), Marco Van Hees (PTB). For the rest, as my excellent colleagues have spoken at length, I think they remember what they said. A debate on North-South transfers also took place. In general, the discussions were very interesting. In conclusion, the bill was passed as it stood. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u6	Mr Piedboeuf, we thank you for your excellent report, in that it is truly synthetic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u7	Madam President, the budget, specifically the commission included in the budget to pay some corona costs, is on the table today. This is about intrinsically one-off costs that are needed to provide rapid support. The initial budget already included EUR 907 million, but everyone knew at that time that this would not be enough. We all knew that the corona crisis would not end with the second wave. Some of the costs that were coming were actually perfectly foreseeable, but were not included in the budget. So today we are at a point that has been announced for some time. So we are here today because at that time there was no additional margin, but also because there is something structurally wrong with the budget. The purple-green government has decided to hand out some of the money traditionally put aside to the various ministers to buy off the peace within the coalition. For example, the commission was already allocated interdepartmentally, whereas that money is normally not used for that purpose. That money is normally used to recharge in times of need. This strategy is not followed by purple-green, which means that we have to have budgetary debates here every once in a while in order to constantly recharge money. It is also very difficult for those who are not absolute budgetary experts to follow exactly what is happening with that money. There were and have been regular debriefings from the previous Minister for the Budget, Mr Clarinval and from current Secretary of State, Mrs De Bleeker, for which I am grateful. It is therefore a serious attempt at transparency, but it is very difficult to keep the overview precisely because the appropriate methods of drawing up and monitoring a budget are not being used. We have debated this extensively in committee, and I honestly believe that the opposition has been rather lenient there. We have been for the government's sake, and the best proof of this is our willingness to debate and vote on this budget adjustment today, while the discussion in committee was only held on Tuesday. An advantage of this is that we could hear Mr Piedboeuf here a little longer today because there is no written report of the debate. However, it is always a pleasure to see Mr Piedboeuf in action. The downside of this method is that she's actually not neat. We are talking here about budgetary adjustments that affect many policy areas, and it would be good if all colleagues could have a chance to read these debates thoroughly so that they can see exactly what has been discussed. For example, we are going to vote on an extra budget for a coronavoucher bank, a proposal launched by Mrs Van Bossuyt and picked up by the Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs De Bleeker. The debate we are having here would also deserve a place in the committee responsible. We are also going to vote again on many additional millions for SNCB to take action against corona. The last few days have shown that SNCB still has a lot of work to do in order to organise itself better. A reservation system could have been developed in the past, but apparently it was more interesting to distribute free tickets for 110 million euros. These are debates that we are now having in the Committee on Finance and Budget, and it would be better if we could do so in the Committee on Mobility. That is where Mr Roggeman has been very active. It must really be stressed that what we are doing here today is not normal. However, there are three reasons for doing so. Firstly, especially in times of crisis, it would not be good for citizens to fall victim to sloppy budgetary policies. It is not because governments and politicians are not doing their job better that people should be the victims of it. Let us ensure that the sauces in Parliament are twisted and that people can eat. These are important measures, such as the increase in benefits and investment in, for example, safety departments, mobility, public health and vaccines. The second reason why we have gone along with the reasoning is out of respect for you, Mrs De Bleeker. Let's call a cat a cat. We all know it's not your budget. It is the budget that was negotiated at night between the purple-green parties. It is actually Mr De Croo's budget. It will be your budget at the time of the first budgetary control, and I shall come back to that later, but today it is not really your budget. It is the second time that I find it particularly regrettable that the Prime Minister is absent from such important debates. I made all that thought yesterday and today I'm making them again. It is good that the Prime Minister can rely on strong women in his government, but it might be a bit more democratic and political if he himself took responsibility for his figures and his budget. Every time it is difficult and when there are difficult debates, the Prime Minister in the hemisphere is not noticeable. We are indeed seeing him before the round of questions on Thursday afternoon, but when it comes to substantive debates, the Prime Minister is always squeaking here. That was the case yesterday, and that is again the case today. I regret that. However, once again, there are three reasons why we should go along with the reasoning. First of all, the people must not be the victims. Secondly, we are doing this out of respect for the Secretary of State and, thirdly, we think it is important that promises made are kept and that the transition is made from a bric-à-brac budget to a budget that has been drafted more appropriately. The budget must become less the de Croo budget and more the de Bleeker budget. Madam Secretary of State, you've already made wonderful promises on the committee. The principles in your policy paper on greater transparency, sound budget setting, monitoring, monitoring and monitoring of expenditure to steer are fine promises, fine policy intentions that have been identified and we want to support you in that. That is the third reason why we have agreed to hold the debate today. It is important that ambition is encouraged and that good intentions are put in the spotlight. Let's face it, you're doing your tests today. Your real exam is yet to come, your real baptism of fire will follow in the coming months, when we will talk about budgetary control and the more structural adjustment when the rush of those nightly negotiations will hopefully be transformed and brought more into line with the ambitions you have formulated. That is why we are here today. I'd like to discuss this in more detail. You have made a number of promises and defined homework for yourself. I have summarized them under a number of chapters, which I would like to go over with you. The first piece of homework you have given yourself is immediately the aspect on which I am most disappointed, namely transparency. You yourself stated that the current government wants to offer greater transparency. You are committed to that, too. We had a debate last Tuesday in committee, in which we agreed to hold a debate today, Thursday 1 April 2021, in plenary on two conditions. Firstly, immediately after the Easter holiday, there must be a round of questions with the Secretary of State for the Budget, so that we can discuss them in greater depth in committee. Secondly, there must be a more appropriate feedback on the money that has already been spent from the corona commission. Very explicit reference has been made to the amount for Health. I have your list of what happened to the previous pennies, with a breakdown up to the level of the millions of euros. There is EUR 1 million for one point and EUR 2 million for another. All of a sudden, however, a budget of EUR 321 million has been entered for Health in commitment appropriations and more than EUR 500 million in liquidation credits. We have explicitly stated that these amounts are not sufficiently detailed. We wanted to know where those pennies went. We wanted to know that before the plenary. We had to have that information before the plenary. The Secretary of State agreed to that information, but we didn't get it. I do not mean that that responsibility lies with you. It is perfectly possible that the information has been delivered to the services of the Chamber. However, I can only conclude that she is not concerned about us. I certainly didn't get them. I don't know if other members did get those details. I note that that promise was made, but the information promise has not been fulfilled. (State Secretary on smartphone) Madam Secretary of State, I see that you are in contact immediately, for which I thank you very much. After all, I want to see the figures before the final vote is taken on the item. In politics, nothing is more important than the word given, especially when agreements are reached in committee and agreements are concluded between men and women. It is important that given words are followed. The general finding that we have spent EUR 500 million on vaccines, syringes and needles is not sufficient. So the first homework was transparency and we expect the result to be achieved today. Give us the details. We want to know where the money went. That's a logical question. By the way, Mrs Depraetere, that is one of those questions that is best repeated from time to time. That is what you get when there is no answer to the question. In that case, the opposition is obliged to repeat questions. The second piece of homework that's on your shelf, and I'll come back to that again and again, is the trick with the commissions. That technique of commissioning is being abused, and that's actually not neat. I refer here to the Court of Auditors' report. A brief quote: "The Court of Auditors recalls that the use of interdepartmental and other commissions prevents a correct picture of the means provided to implement the policy, and therefore undermines the transparency of the budget. In order to respect the principle of budgetary speciality, the Court of Auditors recommends that appropriations be allocated to precise budget lines." You know that, too. You acknowledge that. You have already made it clear in the various debates that you are not really very satisfied with this. You have already said and said that you would stop doing this in budgetary control, and that at the time the ministers have done their homework, the money will be taken out of the commissions and will be specifically earmarked for what they are intended for. We read this again in the explanatory memorandum to this bill: 'We really want to limit the corona commission to expenditure which is difficult to predict in advance or expenditure whose exact amount is difficult to determine in advance'. The words are already correct, now the figures. The intention is already there, and now the policy actions. The most typical example we have seen in committee was the EUR 6 million for Mrs De Sutter's digital divide. You said that the EUR 6 million should certainly be approved, but you also said that, according to your information, Mrs De Sutter did not know exactly how she would spend the EUR 6 million. We are actually giving money to a minister who intends to do so by means of commissions, because in corona times the digital divide becomes even more tangible, but the government does not really know what it will do with the money. It may well be that Mrs De Sutter knows that, but that information has not been passed on. Unfortunately, we cannot see this because it must all happen quickly here. So we cannot go back to committee when there are other answers. Don't shoot the pianist, don't shoot the opposition, shoot yourself. 'Cause it's because of you that things have to be so fast here. We would have preferred to question Mrs De Sutter about what she wants to do with the EUR 6 million requested. The technique of commissioning isn't right. That's your second homework, Madam Secretary of State. Until now, you can hide behind the government behind the De Croo budget. From budgetary control you will not be able to do so anymore, then it will be your budget. That's how I get to your third homework. There is still a lot of work to be done to make a more accurate booking, especially when we see what is happening and what is going to happen here. Here a new fiction is created. The atmosphere is hung here that if we approve this corona commission, we'll be safe until June and we shouldn't worry about the budget. Of course that is not right, let us be honest with each other. There is the story of the corona commission, but of course there is also the much broader story of the budget. There is a whole series of costs not included in the commission but not yet included in the budget. There are no margins in the budget either, because the margins have all been distributed: peace had to be paid off. If we make that point, you are right to say that we in Parliament are only talking about commission today, that we should focus on that debate and that the wider debate will be held later. That's true, but it's only half a truth. The other half of the truth is that precisely because the margins have already been popped up and the commissions are being improperly used, you get into trouble faster. If the certain costs for the vaccines were included in the budget of the Public Health Office, they should not be financed today through the commission and the amount for those costs could be used for something else today. But you can't, because that technique is being used wrongly. Costs that are certain will not be entered in the correct way. This budget does not give a fair picture of reality, even if everyone knows exactly what the reality is. A number of examples also mentioned in the Committee on Finance, which was voted on last week and which will also be in plenary this afternoon, are additional fiscal support measures by Mr Van Peteghem which you do not think should be paid through the corona commission. That is right, it has to be through the general budget, but since there are no reserves, we are going to be in trouble there too. That is EUR 140 million, of which it is not yet certain how that amount will be booked. A second example, additional support for the catering industry. We asked the Minister of Finance again yesterday: where the hell is that package? We all know that the catering sector will hopefully open sooner than later. We all know that they will need additional support for this. We can read these measures in all the newspapers. Something will be done with the RSZ. There will be 6 % VAT again, even if the government didn't want to. The opposition has apparently convinced the government that reducing VAT to 6% is a good idea. I am pleased that this is being announced, but only in the newspapers and not in Parliament. We know that these costs are coming. Then please be more transparent about it and acknowledge that there are those costs and that we are in trouble because these commissions have been abused. That would be more honest, but it would also be more correct to the catering companies. The sooner these measures are taken, the sooner they can prepare properly. For example, they will have to transform their checkout systems. Why do they have to do so in two days if they could take more time to do so if the budget work were to be more appropriate? A third example, Mr Piedboeuf, is the time to close the ears, the double right of bridging. What did we see? A government that absolutely wanted to give the image that everything had to be closed. The schools had to close, so the economy had to close. One would work with reservation systems, which actually means a closure for many companies. What did the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Clarinval, say immediately after the decision in a press release? We will support our entrepreneurs. They get double bridging rights. They get extra support, because we know that what we put in their necks is actually unreasonable. Turns out what? Mr. Clarinval is on his own. Mr De Croo does not want to give a double right of bridging. The PS also does not want to give double bridging rights to our entrepreneurs. Come on, you're refusing to do that. Green and Ecolo say: njet, no bridging right for our entrepreneurs. There is only one minister who really wants to do that, and that is Mr Clarinval, but he is not right. Why isn't he right? The impression is strong that the Vivaldists want to stove a pear to the chairman of the MR. That is a purely political decision. Georges-Louis Bouchez has been a little too mature in the media. Vivaldi says, "We're gonna nail you." The MR isn't getting right. How are we gonna punish the MR? We're not gonna give Mr. Clarinval, who communicated something, what he asked for. Who's the victim of that? Those are all those entrepreneurs who now have to work with reservation lists. They are the victims because the PS, the sp.a, Green, Ecolo and Open Vld wanted to learn a lesson from the MR by not granting double bridging rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u8	As I said yesterday in the form of an endade, the MR does not have fourteen members in Parliament but fifteen. The subject systematically mentioned is Georges-Louis Boucher. I therefore propose that he be given the right to vote. On the other hand, if it did not exist, it would have to be invented, otherwise my colleagues would not have much to say since it comes back to the carpet every time. As far as the double right bridge is concerned, things are pretty clear, the problem is semantic. When the Consultation Committee had completed its work, it decided that the shops would be closed but could operate by appointment. When it is said that a trade is closed and can operate by appointment, the law is clear: a closed trade is eligible for the double right bridge. However, the Order states that businesses are open but can only operate by appointment. At that time, the law no longer applies, since businesses are not closed. Therefore, the traders concerned can benefit from the simple bridge right if their turnover has fallen by 40 %. On the other hand, if, being open by appointment, their trade does not work, they can – thanks to the evolution due to my friend David Clarinval and the discussion held in the government – decide to close. At that time, they benefit from the double right bridge as they are closed. So things are clear. In our country, we always make noise with everything and we always try to get a minister in relation to his statements. It is not complicated: if the trade is open, it touches the simple bridge right and, if it is closed, it touches the double bridge right. If it is open with reservations and this system does not work, it closes and can therefore touch the double right bridge. This is a very simple application of the principles that have been developed. Of course there have been discussions, which are also budgetary. That is why I have told you that, in my opinion, a restaurant or coffee maker, whether Flemish, Brussels or Walloon, should be treated in the same way. That's my vision of things, and I know you don't share it. It's the arrogance of the rich, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u9	Thank you, Mr Piedboeuf, for your reply. Allow me to clarify that the error is not with Mr Clarinval. Minister Clarinval has stood up for his sector, for the SMEs, and has therefore said that the decision taken is not good. There will be a huge extra burden on all the entrepreneurs. Since the government says it will support those who are struggling, the government must do the same, says Minister Clarinval. That's why he pleaded for double bridging rights. The mistake isn't with Minister Clarinval, he's fighting for his sector. The fault is with the nuclear cabinet, as the vice prime ministers decided not to implement this measure. If, at MR, someone with the right to vote has to take responsibility, then that is Mrs Wilmès, a member of the core. Maybe Mrs. Wilmès didn't break it down. Still, I think the main responsibility is not with MR, but with Prime Minister De Croo and Deputy Prime Minister Van Quickenborne. They have said at the heart of the matter that no money will be made available for this purpose. Also Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne has not approved the double bridging right for the entrepreneurs. However, the responsibility lies with the vice prime ministers of Ecolo, Groen, Vooruit and CD&V, with Minister Van Peteghem. The Deputy Prime Ministers rejected the double bridging right for SMEs. So it really suits Minister Clarinval that he's fighting for his sector. It does not speak for the core, for the vice-presidents, that they have decided not to grant it. The next point is the relaunch plan, which must be financed by European funds. You will have to forgive me for being a little more extensive in my speech this morning. This is, of course, due to the fact that an oral report was presented and not a written report. After all, a written report would have allowed me to put forward some arguments in committee alone. Now we are de facto obliged to express all our arguments in plenary. For the relay plan, Belgium receives EUR 5.9 billion of European corona money from the European pot of donations. The federal level has skimmed around EUR 1.2 billion of this. It is now up to us to decide how this will be financed. Lists of projects have been made, but there are too many projects, so the federal government doesn't get all the funding. The government will therefore have to delete projects. That would be the logic itself, but with this Vivaldi government the money is growing on the trees. So your government will not cancel projects, but will still carry out all the investment projects, and believes that some way or another money will be found for them. In a normal discussion, it might be possible if there were reserves in a budget, if margins were included. However, they are not there, because they have all been used up because you have had to buy off the peace between the purple-green parties. We are once again in a debate on a corona commission which is actually very closely linked to a general budget debate. We have asked the question in committee and will continue to repeat it: where will this money come from in detail? Specifically, this is a 130 % of projects that have to be reduced to 100 %. If this is compared to the EUR 1.2 billion, some EUR 400 million will have to be found somewhere. Where is the EUR 400 million to make the purple-green investments? It would be a good idea to provide a little more transparency on this issue. There will undoubtedly be additional costs in view of the social dialogue currently under way. The government is doing its best to push it away from itself towards the social partners. I will be very curious to see how much money will be found in the budget to buy off some sort of agreement there. Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, be vigilant. You have repeatedly announced that you are under strict supervision. Yesterday or the day before yesterday there was a nice interview on the French-speaking radio in which you stressed that you are strict and that things are financed when they are useful and necessary and that, of course, money will be released. You did say to be strict so that it would be done correctly. Here you must be very attentive. When will there finally be a specific budget line for these vaccines? In the meantime, I assume that the instruction has been given to clarify exactly how this funding has happened. Mrs De Bleeker, the private information can of course be filtered out because we do not want you to get into any trouble. We do want that information delivered. In short, ladies and gentlemen, many points of interest are still the problem - De Croo, but in the coming weeks and months may well become the problem - De Bleeker. So there's homework on the shelf. I can be very brief about the following homework, because I have said it a number of times: there is no margin. We now decide to recharge a few hundred million euros depending on how it is calculated, but only EUR 30 million of it is margin. Its size is therefore very limited and also represents the picture of the rest of the budget. Because the commission is not used correctly and because it is not fair to book what is known, there is no possibility of having reserves. I would like to use this point to call for more honesty: if everything I have told is put together and also finds that there are no reserves... We all know that it is difficult to budget in a crisis, because what is uncertain cannot be known, but what is certain is known and there is a number of costs that are certain to come. Please book it in. That will indeed mean that everyone will see that your budget is even more in the red, but it is at least fairer. At least we know what we stand for, so we see at least the size of the exercise rather than kicking the can out in front of us. I speak deliberately of us and not of you, because it is a responsibility of all of us to ensure that the budget is put in order. So please book in the right way in what is certain. My final point concerns monitoring. I was very pleased, Madam Secretary of State, when you announced in committee that you are not only monitoring when money is to be granted, but that you are also committed to the control of funds. When money is allocated, it is important to check that these funds are used correctly. You announced that a whole system of monitoring has been set up, which is a very good thing. I would like to use this point to raise the issue of temporary unemployment benefits through the Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment Benefits. We have already made this point in various committees, but, once again, in view of the oral report, I feel obliged to repeat it in plenary. We have seen for months on the ground that there are huge queues for people who need temporary unemployment benefits, not through the union but through the auxiliary cash. That is a point that will undoubtedly be of interest to the Socialists. Problems keep popping up for people who are entitled to benefits. In this budgetary adjustment we find a corona commission of 4.7 million euros, including to recruit additional staff for the auxiliary cash. I would like to announce that we will monitor this issue very closely. This government really gives the impression of being a union government. Of course, that is what one gets when the chairman of the largest socialist party, a pillar of this purple-green government, says he supports the trade unions for 200 percent. This creates the impression that this government is a trade union government. If one finds that people who deliberately do not go to the union but want to receive their unemployment benefit through the Emergency Cash Fund for Unemployment Benefits are being bullied, then it strengthens the image that this government is a trade union government. We will therefore be monitoring this issue very closely to ensure that the backlog is eliminated. People who are entitled to temporary unemployment benefits should finally be able to get them quickly. They should not be de facto forced to join the union. Perhaps that is the secret plan of this government, making sure that the auxiliary cash does not work properly so that people are obliged to join the union. That's not neat as it's supposed to be. So I hope that is not the case. In any case, the Secretary of State announces monitoring, I will be very interested to follow it closely. I'll come to my decision. It's not easy to budget in times of crisis. We all know that, but that does not relieve this government of its responsibility to properly record the things it does know. That does not relieve you of the responsibility to budget exactly. I sincerely hope that, in your answers and in the statements by the majority, we will not get the same whim again that it is all so difficult here, that there is corona, that it is unpredictable, that we do not know and that we are forced to see how we budget day after day, on a case-by-case basis, to open up the coron umbrella again and pretend that the water can slip completely from it. That is not the summary of my speech. It is true that even in times of crisis things are certain and that it is therefore logical that you incorporate things that are certain in a correct way into your budget. That's not happening today. If the government parties wanted to replicate one point, I sincerely hope it is on that point. We ask for an explanation as to why you do not do so. That could be an honest explanation. An honest explanation is perhaps because it is a political compromise. Then just admit it. In addition, I hope that the statements made on behalf of the government parties will also support the Secretary of State's intentions to ensure that we will soon see a completely different budget, that when budgetary control is completed, we will get rid of the scrapwork that is the De Croo budget and we will finally see a decent budget. As far as we are concerned, that can perfectly be the De Bleeker budget, as long as it is transparent, clearer and more secure, and more respect the budgetary principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u10	Madam President, I will repeat the points raised in committee. Mr Piedboeuf's oral report was very well done. Nevertheless, I would like to return to a few points today in plenary. That was said by Mr Loones. The discussion of a budgetary adjustment is traditionally an important political moment in the parliamentary year, as we see how strongly the government agreement and the budget are applied. A budget and budgetary adjustment represent the political choices made by a government coalition, by a parliamentary coalition. That is why, in normal times, it is a debate which shows clear political orientations and which can lead to very strong ideological divisions. Today, the situation is completely different, and so the discussion we have is just as much. Why? Because we are experiencing the worst health, socio-economic and mental health crisis probably never seen in our country's recent history. Unfortunately, in recent weeks, the difficult decisions of the Concertation Committee make this situation even more complicated not only for the sectors concerned, the economic sectors, but also for the mental health of our fellow citizens, for the young people who were hoping for prospects after Easter. Today, all this is still very fragile, partly under bell, to take up a phrase quoted last week. This situation is unfortunate and dramatic. What is the point of this budgetary adjustment which has been presented in committee? It highlights all the means that must be made available to combat the covid pandemic at health level, with additional means to combat the disease in practice, whether in hospital terms, in terms of support for front-line healthcare staff, in terms of vaccine financing, etc. But it also highlights all the necessary and fundamental means to support the most vulnerable groups in this crisis. I have quoted young people and people who were already weakened before the covid and who, unfortunately, see their situation worsen, both in terms of mental health and social living conditions. Among the sectors first affected, we all have in mind the event and the cultural, closed for months, the horeca sector, those that were able to reopen but which unfortunately today had to close. These means are also there to support as much as possible all the victims of these tragedies that are taking place in society and these dramatic situations that are developing. I will take up some important elements in the eyes of the Ecolo-Groen Group. They are shown in the table which has been distributed in committee. They clearly show the sectors which we believe are priorities and which should benefit from the aid reflected in this budgetary adjustment. I will first mention the support for young people and students, amounting to almost 30 million euros. This is obviously fundamental. We can see how much the distress of young people affects us all. All you have to do is walk around our streets to find out. It's a very important signal. I will also point out support for more than EUR 30 million for the most vulnerable audiences. There is also an increase for social recipients during the first two quarters of this year, for those who qualify for the CPAS. These are fundamental measures because this crisis primarily affects the most fragile people. I am also thinking, as I said, of certain sectors. A special additional specific support measure for artists is foreseen, for almost 21 million euros. I would also like to highlight all that concerns INAMI, health care, of course, as well as mobility, for the first two quarters of this year, for almost EUR 163 million, and for all the staff who are now on the front line. For us, it was really important to be able to quote these different elements because we are clearly beyond a conventional fiscal adjustment. We are in the process of putting in place additional basic means to respond to the health and social emergency, to the mental health distress and to the sectors that are closed today. We are all affected by this. Politically, therefore, we fully support what is proposed here. Of course, we will support this budgetary adjustment. As I said in the introduction, however, I would like to make it clear that it is normal for a budgetary adjustment to give rise to lively debates between the majority and the opposition. That is normal because a budget represents a policy. But here it is a combat budget, a support budget in the face of a pandemic and a completely new and dramatic socio-economic situation. I therefore find it more difficult to understand that, politically, we cannot find ourselves in this necessary collective effort. Honestly, I regret it somewhat, even though some have had words that are more constructive than others. I think that in such a moment, politically, we must be able to support the efforts undertaken. I hope that, in a few months or years, we will find more traditional debates on budgetary adjustment. Today, that is not the case. It is time for the urgency and support of our fellow citizens who are in dramatic situations and in the fight against an unprecedented pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary negotiations can go a long way. That's what happened here this morning. I try to structure my speech into three points: the way Parliament works, a number of general budgetary comments and a number of specific points relating to the draft law. Firstly, as regards the procedure, we must note that the government of seven parties is trying to push budgetary adjustments through Parliament in seven haste. The second budgetary adjustment to the general expenditure budget was pushed through Parliament in less than 72 hours. It is striking how superficial, hasty and sloppy budgetary discussions are taking place in Parliament during a rather unprecedented economic crisis. It is absolutely not a model of good governance. Secondly, we have all been able to see that while the trade unions stopped in this country last Monday, the budget figures are red-colored. Strikes during a lockdown is ultimately a form of Belgian surrealism. It is, of course, the result of a federal government dominated by free-trade and trade union-related parties. It is also one of the reasons why Belgium is doing structurally worse than our neighbouring countries. We are only March and the federal budget is already over EUR 4 billion off course. For the federal government and social security separately, the deficit this year is just under EUR 30 billion. The budget deficit in our country increased much faster in 2020 than in our neighbouring countries. This is also evident from the European Central Bank's devastating forecasts. This is not so much about the corona expenditure that the government is hiding behind, but about government policy. Even without corona and without the corona crisis, the deficit in this country would reach 3% in 2022. In addition to the deficit, Belgium also sees debt increases much faster than our neighbouring countries The Netherlands and Germany. The level of debt in this country would reach 120 % by 2023, which, according to economists at the National Bank, is a clear risk limit. Let me also talk about the interest rates. The paralysis of large parts of our economy, issued by the government as a corona measure, and the many billions of aid measures, which are necessary for this purpose, have further raised deficits and debts in this structuralally unhealthy country to unprecedented and very dangerous levels. The illusion, among other things, hanged by Prime Minister De Croo, that we will get away with it thanks to the low interest rates, is now being pierced, as interest rates are rising again. Madam Secretary of State, at the committee meeting I already asked you about this. The federal budget is left behind after the crisis with a structural deficit of 6% and debt would stabilise close to 120 %. So I will repeat our questions. Should additional buffers be built in? What plans do you have in that sense? Are you planning to cut back? After my comments on interest rates, I would also like to talk about the Länder. The Walloon friends here in the Chamber may now have to sit up a little more and raise their ears. It is also alarming that, from 2023 onwards, the deficit in the Länder will rise to EUR 6 billion and eventually stay there. It would, of course, be a mistake not to pay attention to public finances in the Länder. The Länder have taken on a significant part of the aid measures resulting from the corona crisis. Although the federal cash must, of course, be much more supportive, think of the expenditure on temporary unemployment, the Länder must, through the second wave and lockdown, provide additional support for sectors such as catering, tourism and events. Besides, Mr Loones is asking the government about the plans for the catering industry, but the question of whether and how to provide additional support for the catering industry must also be addressed to the Flemish Government. The Planning Bureau also predicts that the deficit of Wallonia and the French Community in 2023 will be in absolute terms and thus in billions of euros higher than the Flemish deficit. In 2026, the Walloon budget deficit alone will be larger than the Flemish budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u12	Mr Vermeersch, you are asking what the Flemish Government will do for the catering sector. That's two things. Firstly, for those Members who missed it in committee at the time, there was the fine expression of the Flemish interest in the Flemish budget. The Flemish Interest stated that the Flemish budget is much more in order than any other budget in this country. That is a compliment that has been made and that, after I mentioned it, has been reconfirmed by you. That was very good. Mr Vermeersch, you are now trying to temper your words. However, you were very pleased with the Flemish budget. Mrs Pas, you need to take a closer look at your colleagues in your group. After all, they give many compliments to N-VA's. Secondly, you ask what the Flemish Government will do for the catering sector. Two weeks ago, there was a solid reportage on La Une, the French-speaking channel, which provided a nice schedule of support given to catering businesses by region. Turns out what? In Brussels, catering businesses received around 12,000 euros of support. In Wallonia it is 16,500 euros. In Flanders that is 40,330 euros. Of course, that happens to a government that takes care of the money and makes the budget sounder. When it starts to storm or when it burns and there is more water to put out. Mrs. Depraetere, that might be one to add to your metaphor. If there is a need to put out, it is always good that there are reserves and good reservoirs. The Flemish Government has clearly pursued a good fiscal policy and can now put out stronger in the current times of crisis, which means that it can give double or triple additional support to catering business compared to Brussels and Flanders. This is thanks to, among other things, Flemish Minister for Budget Muyters at the time of the Peeters government. This is also due to Minister of Budget Tommelein in the Bourgeois government at the time. This is also due today to the budget work of Matthias Diependaele in the Jambon administration. In this also thanks to CD&V and Open Vld to help the Flemish government pay attention to those pennies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u13	Mr Loones, you forget Minister Van Mechelen when there was no guilt in Flanders. Now the debts in Flanders amount to a year's income. We must sometimes be a little modest when we know that we will have a budget deficit of EUR 5 to 6 billion in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u14	I would like to make an amendment to the budget, for a few hundred euros, so that a newspaper subscription for Mr Leysen can be purchased, in particular a subscription to La Libre Belgique, which very often contains good articles. A few weeks ago, there was an overview of budget deficits and debts. I have already recommended the reading of this in committee, dear Christian, but apparently it has not yet been done. Maybe you're having trouble buying that subscription. What's in that article? That the budget deficit of the French Community and the Walloon Region will be greater together in 2023 than in Flanders, whereas French-speaking Belgium represents only 23% of GDP and Flanders represents more than 60%. Yet they will have greater deficits and greater debts. It may be worth studying the file first, Mr Leysen. Anyway, it's in the French-language newspaper. If a budget can be found in the budget, it seems to me to be a recommended cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u15	Madam President, I will respond to what Mr Loones has just said. As an introduction, I would like to say, like Mr Piedboeuf, that I hate this type of comparison. When dealing with a crisis such as the current crisis, there is no question of starting to compete between people living in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. We can make interesting comparisons with a view to good public management benchmarking. That's good, in general. But not here. Not on this subject. Mr Loones, frankly, I regret that all you can say here during the budget debate is: "Look at Wallonia, compared to Brussels!" Let's go to the numbers. You compare apples and pears, Mr. Loones. I have the investment figures of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels in relation to entrepreneurs and Horeca during the crisis of the Covid-19. It is true that, in gross amounts, Flanders is helping more. All right! Bravo! I am glad that Flanders can afford to help more. In terms of figures, you compare the budgets of a Region of 1.2 million people (Brussels) to a Region such as Flanders with a population of more or less 6 million and Wallonia with a population of 3. There's an interesting point, but you obviously don't. Which Region has invested the most in entrepreneurs as a percentage of its budget? The Flemish Region has released EUR 1.9 billion, representing 5.3% of its budget for 2021. The Brussels-Capital Region has invested EUR 467 million in direct business aid, representing 9.4% of its budget for 2021. Obviously, in gross amounts, we can make great comparisons. But it's comparing different populations and regions. What is certain is that proportional effort is the most important in Brussels. And for that, Mr Loones, I also expect congratulations!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u16	Could Mr Vermeersch also have the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u17	Mr Vanden Burre, you like to refer to percentage, I like to refer to pennies because the entrepreneurs need them. Whether it is an entrepreneur in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels, it doesn't matter, he doesn't buy much with your percentage. What he does need is pennies. You can talk about the percentages of the general budget, but these are abstract discussions. What entrepreneurs need is support in their pockets and there are the figures they are. What I find much more interesting is that you are beginning to be open to the Community debate. I encourage that. It is good that you replicate regional figures with regional figures. That's an evolution I encourage. I would like to thank Ecolo for making that institutional distinction and to start with figures very clearly supporting the fact that there is a difference in policy culture between Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders. That is a good thing. I can only applaud that institutional ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u18	Madam President, I am very pleased that this debate is taking place here. This is a debate which we welcome. We love this debate, because it comes to the essence of the political debate in this federal Parliament, in particular the institutional one, which is inextricably linked to the budget. The reason why we have had the discussion here and in committee is because Mr Piedboeuf had pointed out that he believes that hospitality entrepreneurs in Flanders and Wallonia should be supported in the same way, as Mr Vanden Burre says. We do not, of course, agree with that. Why can Flanders do much more? Mr Loones is right there and as a Flemish nationalist I have no difficulty in admitting that to the N-VA. Flanders can do more for its catering entrepreneurs because Flanders is doing better than the federal level and Wallonia. Because Flanders has taken better care of its pennies, it can do much more for its own entrepreneurs. Mr Loones, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Vanden Burre, why can we do more in Germany and the Netherlands? There they can do much more for their own residents and businesses than what we can do in Flanders. That is because the Netherlands and Germany, not like Flanders, do not have to drag a Walloon block along. We, convinced Flemish nationalists, believe that the corona crisis should be used to gain more powers in Flanders As far as we are concerned, all powers should go to Flanders, so that we can do more for our own people and businesses when a new crisis is emerging. Mr Piedboeuf said in committee that I made a distinction on the basis of where one was born and that there are also good directors in Wallonia. I believe that is all right, Wallonia has good drivers and it should actually use those good drivers to take the future into their own hands. If there is a new crisis, people will be much stronger to support their own inhabitants and businesses. The Walloon friends must now give their attention to the figures of the Planning Bureau. This predicts that the deficit of Wallonia and the French Community will be in absolute terms higher than the Flemish deficit in 2023. In 2026, the Walloon budget deficit alone will be greater than the Flemish budget, whereas Flanders accounts for 60% of the Belgian economy and 70% of tax revenue and Wallonia only for a quarter. Can Wallonia turn the tide? We have seen in the past that Wallonia at most succeeds in achieving the same growth rates as Flanders. That, of course, makes us fear who will have to pay the bill for the billion-dollar wells in Wallonia. The Flemings will be able to help dampen the wells in Wallonia and you will of course find my party on your path. After the Länder, I would like to touch on another point, in particular public investment. The economic recovery in our country is expected to be slower than elsewhere. Unlike neighbouring countries, no full economic recovery is expected for Belgium. The European Commission appears to be particularly critical of the first version of the government's rescue plans. The European Central Bank is also of the opinion that this government's re-launch plans will not be enough to get the economic engine back on track in our country. Public investment is lagging too far behind. In committee, I asked the Secretary of State, and we will continue to repeat this question: how will public investment in this country be increased? In the meantime, 11 economists have asked the government to speed up economic reforms. They should stimulate productivity and economic growth in order to ultimately help dampen the budget sinks. These structural reforms in this country remain worrying and deafeningly silent. The reforms that will be needed to achieve an employment rate of 80%, yet an ambition of this government, are not reflected in the government agreement. Until today, we have not heard anything about this in Parliament. The increase in minimum pensions has now been acquired, including in the government agreement, but it is completely unclear how it will be financed and what pension reforms are opposed to it. These 11 economists are putting forward six concrete reforms. Of course, it would lead us too far to list them all here, but, Madam Secretary of State, you have indicated that you have heard the call from those economists. I still wonder what reforms you will eventually undertake to get the budget back on track. Do you think that reform is possible with a preponderance of French speakers, Greens and Socialists, trade union-related parties in this government, who obviously always take the side of non-reform? Let me also talk about the billions flowing into Europe. We will also talk about SURE, which is on the agenda here. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this month, Parliament's own resources decision was pushed through back room politics. It was a fundamental redrafting of the European Union's revenue system, a very far-reaching and far-reaching bill with an impact on the budget until 2058. Forty years! That committee took place in a back room of Parliament, the Congressroom, without any video connection and without openness and transparency, in contrast to the very high-quality debate that is taking place in other national parliaments of the European Union. Mr Ravyts just reminded me: last week Germany seemed to join the 20 Member States of Europe that have already adopted the own resources decision. However, the Constitutional Court in Germany intervened. The Court in Karlsruhe wishes to examine first the objections of the opponents, including some members of our sister party, Alternative für Deutschland, who expressly oppose what was approved here in this House, without bumps. To me, they're political heroes. They say, like the Flemish interest, that the European Recovery Fund opens the door to common European debts, which simply does not allow the European Treaties. Our hope lies with that court, our possible support and indulgence, which hopefully makes a decision in the right direction. So far as European money flows are concerned. I would add that we have adopted this own resources decision here in Parliament without knowing the budgetary impact. Our question to the Secretary of State for the Budget in committee was blocked in every possible way in this House. Yesterday we received the committee agenda. Again, there is no trace of any discussion of the budgetary impact of this very far-reaching own resources decision. It is unacceptable that such a heavy-handed decision was adopted without knowing the budgetary impact of it on the federal budget, but also on the budgets of the Länder. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State, I repeat, about the budgetary processing that will take place and the expected budgetary impact of the Belgian payments on the one hand for the financing of those billions of euros in grants, and on the other hand the Belgian guarantee obligations for the granting of the billions of euros in loans. In the footnote to the own resources decision, on page 18 of the draft law, we read that you, Madam Secretary of State, are suggesting the introduction of a system of pre-financing by the Belgian federal government and reimbursement by the Regions. How will this be dealt with in concrete terms? That is completely unclear until today. We shall, of course, continue to come back to that in committee. So much for our general budgetary comments. I would like to comment specifically on this draft law, in particular on the corona commission. Madam Secretary of State, you said at the first adjustment of the general expenditure budget, which, moreover, will eventually become the second adjustment by the seven haste of the government. The second adjustment will be the first adjustment; it will all be a little confusing, that you are actually sympathetic to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. As for the proposed adjustment and the corona commission, the Court of Auditors was devastating to your government. There are parallels to the debate that took place yesterday in Parliament. Yesterday it was found here that the technique of ministerial decisions to take corona measures is not correct. Well, the technique that is being applied here today, that of a corona commission, is not the correct technique to work with either. In fact, expenditure on corona should be entered on the appropriate budget lines. Madam Secretary of State, you replied in committee that the amounts and the legal basis were still missing and that the figures were still evolving, so you had to work with a commission. But, of course, that's bullshit and monkey. For example, we have entered EUR 400 million in the December budget for the securities tax. Well, that security tax didn't have any legal basis in December. Income from the securities tax is also still evolving. No one can say for sure that this EUR 400 million has been acquired. So, the arguments you put forward to defend the commission don't make any sense at all. More than that, she ignores them herself. The same goes for the details of the corona commission. Mr Loones rightly pointed that out. There is an amount of EUR 800 million in the healthcare sector, but we have not received any details so far. At the end of the day, we have only received them now, but we must, of course, get them for the debate so that we can analyse them and take them into the debate. You have to excuse me for not opening my laptop right now to analyze those numbers here on the spot. That's impossible. That is the sad way in which the debate is being held here in Parliament. Finally, I would like to mention the urgency with which this text has to be dealt with. Why does everything have to go so fast? In December we were here to approve the budget. At that time we knew that the commission for corona could not be enough. Last month, we knew that. Last week, we knew that. We know that today. Parliament and the government could have been much faster. It can't be that everything here is pushed through in seven rushes. That leads me to the conclusion, which I made at the beginning of my speech. We notice how hasty, superficial and sloppy budgetary discussions are taking place in Parliament during an unprecedented economic crisis. That is absolutely not a model of good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u19	Madam President, in addition to a number of technical adjustments to the budget, the draft bill contains a substantial increase in the corona fee of EUR 380 million. This is, of course, a significant change compared to the initial budget of October 2020, which was based on the circumstances of that moment. In the meantime, unfortunately, we are faced with a third wave and with an Easter lockdown, which has a major impact on our economic system and on people's health, including mental health. In short, it is stormy and so it is again all hands on deck, also in the financial field. This requires, of course, effective and manoeuvrable action with different measures. Many of these measures are listed in the present draft and also explained in detail by the Secretary of State in the committee. It is about spending on, among other things, RIZIV, holiday money, vulnerable people and vaccination centres. All these measures have as a common point that they are necessary, urgent and temporary. These are also the parameters on which the measures in the corona commission must and must remain tested. The Secretary of State has confirmed that, too. It is therefore a difficult period with a difficult predictable situation, which requires important measures. The corona commission in the design allows it and we will therefore fully support the design.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u20	Madam Chair, this bill is a second budget adjustment, while the first one has not yet been tabled in plenary. The first criticism of this text is that it refers to the debate on transparency and the non-financial aspect of covid measures. Everyone agrees that, in the context of the pandemic, a series of measures and budgets are needed. But first there is a debate on the method. There is an important debate on the issue of transparency on covid measures in general. I am referring to the fact that the government's orders were declared illegal by the courts. But the question also arises with regard to the budget. In budgetary matters, too, there is a lack of transparency and a genuine parliamentary debate. The use of provisions in the original budget has already been severely criticized. The Court of Auditors said that a provision could be accepted exceptionally in some cases, but not as a method of budgetary management. Despite this criticism, we come back here with the same use of provisions. The problem with budgetary provisions is that it is a tote envelope with which the government can do what it wants. It can make transfers from one post to another and there is therefore no transparency or parliamentary debate necessary to respect the basic democratic principles. A budget shall be voted on by Parliament in a specific way. This parliamentary oversight is not satisfactory from the time we use the provisions, which we could have understood a year ago when the government discovered the problems associated with a pandemic like the one we are experiencing today. This argument is obviously no longer valid today. This is the first criticism that can be made of this text. The second criticism I want to make concerns human resources. It can be seen that, in this way, some budgets are planned to increase staff in some very specific areas. I am thinking in particular of CAPAC or INASTI staff. But that is not at all what is apparent from the whole text. We have seen that CAPAC and INASTI have faced many problems in managing their files. It was catastrophic. If they fail to follow, this has serious consequences for the beneficiaries of the allowances in question. In this case it seems to me that some additional resources have been given in a limited way. However, it is realized that these resources and staff are totally inadequate in a range of public services. What is already a limited situation in normal times is felt even more, and strongly, in this period of corona crisis. The lack of staff is a big problem. It is all the more serious as it is known that this government has further planned the abolition of public personnel at the federal level. In 2021, a reduction in the number of staff is planned for the budget and will continue to increase in subsequent years. In total, this policy will sacrifice 5,000 jobs in the federal public service. We are not doing well today, but this government will continue to eliminate jobs, that is to say, to put fiscal efforts on public services. That's a problem. In addition, Article 4, for example, provides for the redistribution, where necessary, of staff credits to the pan-European guarantee fund to finance the European Investment Bank. Where are we going to get the money if there are financing needs of the European Investment Bank? On staff credits. In addition to the 5,000 jobs already planned to be abolished, there are still plans, if necessary, to spend on this type of appropriations, which is obviously unacceptable. This lack of human resources is observed, for example, in the labour inspectorate. Unless I'm wrong, labour inspections are not strengthened. However, 40 per cent of the contaminated sites are found in enterprises. The company is now the place where we see the most contamination with coronavirus, but the controls are insignificant in relation to the needs due to the lack of staff. This lack of staff is endemic and has particularly serious consequences. We must therefore strengthen these controls at the main sites of contamination in our country, namely companies, but we do not. Companies are a kind of guarded hunt, you can't touch it. You can close everything you want, restaurants, the cultural world, schools, but you don't touch businesses, even though you know that they are the main vector of contamination! At the same time, let us continue to run companies, in agreement, but with as many guarantees as possible! With as many guarantees as possible, I mean social inspections worthy of that name. In the case of CPAS, for example, budgets have been made available to increase support for CPAS, particularly for young people, but the mass of new dossiers to be processed by CPAS has become unmanageable. The phenomenon is obviously not new, but it has been significantly aggravated by the pandemic. In the Walloon CPAS, the number of cases has doubled in 20 years, while staff has increased by only 2%. Already before the pandemic, the CPAS staff were not doing well, and we already know that the CPAS Walloons will have to deal with an additional 100,000 files by 2022. Today, CPAS staff are not doing well. There is no clear budget for this aspect. Thirdly, I would like to address the question of the financial means that will arise but that we are not asking here because we are only in the expenditure side, but that will arise when we deal with revenue in budgetary control. Where are we going to get the budgetary resources to finance all these expenses? Are we going to do as always, that is to say, go get the money from the workers' pocket, raise taxes, reduce public services, tackle social security? Or are we going, for once, to take an alternative route? For example, six million grants are granted to telecom operators to bridge the digital divide. All right! This digital divide is obviously very problematic. Six million is probably insufficient in relation to needs, but let us not even discuss this figure! Is it normal to give six million to a company like Proximus, listed on the stock exchange and which made 582 million euros in profits in 2020 – the Corona year –, a 48% increase in profit compared to the previous year? Proximus greatly benefits from the corona crisis. It's pretty obvious! We know that telework is increasing, etc. So there is a logic to that, but isn't it that kind of company that should contribute to their own funds, their profits, the dividends they distribute to fight the digital divide rather than subsidising them for such a task? The question deserves to be asked in this particular case, but also in a more general way. It is clear that, compared to all the billions spent in the context of the coronavirus crisis, it is not the derisory return of the tax on securities accounts that will make that we will mostly focus on the side of the widest shoulders. We must dare to ask the question, during budgetary control, of a genuine taxation of those who have the means to contribute to the financing of the coronavirus crisis. I see two broad categories. There is the question of the millionaires, whose number continues to increase every year. This raises the question of a real tax on wealth, not a derisory tax on securities accounts, but a real "corona tax" on big fortunes. A millionaire tax, which goes to get a return in billions. The stakes are at stake. There is the question of taxing over-profits carried out by a number of companies. Because it makes sense. It makes sense to help companies that need help, that have seen their turnover or profits collapse, and that are potentially in loss today. It's normal to help them. But it is not normal for it to be one-way; it is not normal for government money to simply feed the companies that are in loss and for companies that have made overprofits not to be used to help, precisely, those that need to be helped in a public way. We must dare to have this debate during budgetary control. What I see is that this government has stalemated, with a magic wand trick called the security account tax, which simply takes over a previous recipe from the government of law. We will have to have this debate and we will be there to conduct it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a draft law on the vote which increases the covid commission by slowing down the pandemic, but it also provides for a number of new expenditure arising from the re-engaging of a number of measures. Budgetary discipline is a particularly great challenge in these times. We've lived with provisional twelfths for two years. The 2021 budget had to be drawn up in a very short time, with the shadow of the pandemic on the work table. The classic budget format has also been supplemented over the years by interdepartmental commission, with budget funds over which the government itself has no control, and now with substantial and recurring corona commissions. Provision is not to be confused with service provision. One concerns provisional budgetary provisions on the basis of new or new data at that time. Providence means providence, the property of a higher power that can provide and provide everything. If it is no longer about a god, but about the state, this providence may be too ambitious an expectation of the citizen. During this crisis, the governments of this country, as in the rest of Europe, have stepped in massively to protect the economy from a hard crash, to maintain purchasing power for families and to support the care system, and preferably to compensate for all the damage suffered. Europe goes far beyond the other continents in this respect. Many forms of income loss have been buffered by the government, assuming that a relance will absorb this buffering. In Asia, citizens and businesses are expected to absorb part of these buffers themselves. In the United States, a powerful injection of resources was chosen, directly to the citizen, directly rather than indirectly, as Belgium does through the many intermediaries and institutions. This second adjustment of the general expenditure budget confirms and strengthens the European choice to compensate as widely as possible. The travel sector gets oxygen, artists are compensated for related rights that disappear, the OCMWs get extra support, just like the track and skeyes. The crane is turned on wide and that is not without danger. I refer to the former head economist of the ECB in Belgium, well-known because he was active in Belgium both in a bank and afterwards in Cabinets, Mr Peter Praet. He says: "It is the governments that now have to support the economy, and they also spend a lot of money on it." But he is also right to be concerned: "In principle, I have nothing against more public debt. Now, if you can borrow cheaply to make good investments, why not? But I am concerned that governments will continue to spend money, even if it is no longer necessary, and that they will not behave wisely. Because it is not because money is free, that it is also well spent." We must therefore watch over the temporary nature of such measures. The past teaches us that 'temporary' and 'temporary' words are long-lasting. Today's additional expenditure must not lead to structural expenditure tomorrow and even more public debt the day after tomorrow. Mr Praet is also concerned about this. The invoice of the past, but also today's and tomorrow's, must be paid. Who's gonna do that? Mr Praet says that politicians across Europe are currently avoiding this question, as the priority is to get control of the pandemic. The question of who will pay the invoices will lead to intense political debates and major tensions. We therefore have every interest in continuing to provide proper support as long as it is necessary, but not for a day too long and without ending up in excesses and to tolerate improper use of corona and other commissions and funds. Madam Secretary of State, your role is therefore essential. The approval of this commission is a trusted mandate for you to ensure this, with the support of not only Deputy Prime Minister Van Quickenborne and Prime Minister De Croo, but of the entire government, which owes it to the people. At the same time, it is essential to define a credible path for a budgetary recovery. I am not in favour of extreme budgetary austerity, but of reasonableness and, above all, of decisiveness and the courage to make choices. We must put as much energy into managing this pandemic as in tomorrow's world, where we may face other pandemics sooner or later. Economist Gert Peersman says today in Trends that one can also clean up by investing and reforming more. These are classics: reforming the labour market and pensions and making additional public investment. This is the only way to re-launch the economic engine. The economic revival money will provide an additional stimulus, but homework is still on the table because the Bundesverfassungsgericht in Karlsruhe is asking answers to a number of pertinent questions, because the Belgian Government has to revise the proposals it has submitted and because these European funds are homeopathic only if we do not tackle effectively the ailments of our Belgian economy. I decide. Let us frame the providence of our government with realism and dare to communicate it in the same way. Let us not get carried away by short-term thinking, by converting all expectations into budgetary commissions and by not regarding one-off co-vid expenditure as pre-payments on future structural expenditure which further weakens our budget. Let us proceed without delay with the necessary and inevitable structural reforms, because only then can we fully focus on the resilience of citizens and businesses. They are the ones who will eventually create the future and prosperity of this country. In that spirit, our group will approve the present amendments to the 2021 expenditure budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long and will not, above all, take part in the Community's exercise of strength, which is a difficult and indecent exercise in view of the period we are going through. However, I am not prepared to sign a blank cheque in the government. In committee, I had the opportunity to make a number of points. First of all, we regret the absence of a report from the Court of Auditors annexed to the budget adjustment documents. We must also deplore the fact that the competent and functional committees have not been convened to address the various themes. We would probably have obtained more answers then. The Secretary of State for the Budget could make a general presentation, while the ministers concerned could have answered questions relating to more technical matters. In addition, we had already talked about the working hours that were imposed to discuss a budgetary adjustment that was not neutral in view of the amounts committed. Of course, we support the objectives pursued by several aids provided for in this adjustment. We were surprised – this is what will justify our abstention – about the choice regarding the scope of action of covid measures. Thus, we are surprised that nothing has been envisaged for the justice, the police, Unia – while its strengthening had been announced by the Secretary of State – the centres for the care of victims of sexual violence. How can we claim that this last subject has no relation to the covid measures, when we all know that confinement, accompanied by various measures restricting freedom, has led to an increase in violence in general, including sexual violence? We remain clearly on our hunger for commitments made by the government, in the government agreement and in the budget. According to them, the government was going to put additional money in the justice system, the police, and devote it to the problem of all violence, etc. We have, of course, supported and will continue to support this government commitment. But let us recognize that, for the time being, this is not reflected in budgetary acts. We believe that through this document, this adjustment, we could have already given a signal on this side. Clearly, the subjects I quote are intimately linked to the covid crisis. It is therefore essential for this to happen. We were told that this would come a little later, at the time of the supplementary budget document, which we really want, and which we look forward to. We were promised it by March. In particular, we were told that the breakdown would see complementary means dedicated to justice. When we asked the Minister of Justice about the areas in which he was going to break down these complementary means, he told us that it would come in March. We are at the very beginning of this new government, and we understand it perfectly, but now it is beginning to take a long time. Expectations are huge, you know. These are the reasons why we will abstain. I would like to return briefly to the debate on the dual bridge law and its non-extension for so-called non-essential sectors. I am speaking to Mr Piedboeuf: to tell these traders that it is a matter of semantics is not necessarily such as to appease. It would be more like throwing oil on the fire, it seems to me. It is a political choice that has been formulated. You can sigh and get angry. You said it was a matter of semantics; take the report back if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u23	Mr Piedboeuf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u24	You're deviating again out of dishonesty. I was talking about the government-level discussion. I wasn't talking about the perception of traders. I said it happened like that at the government level. You're doing a bad trial and it's dishonest!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u25	I am not making a bad trial, you yourself said that it was budgetary and necessarily political choices that had been made. It is a political choice that you have made. We know that this rendezvous system makes the turnover decrease. There were 85% fewer sales on the first weekend. We continue to defend the fact that the government must reconsider its decision on this two-tiered right. It must be granted to so-called non-essential businesses. You make a parallel with the horeca which is closed and which benefits from the double right bridge. We can also make a parallel with the fact that the Horeca practice take away and that the others work by appointment. It's the same thing. In the legal texts, they are open, but in practice, they recognize that this is very much like a closure. We continue to regret this decision, and above all the hopes it had raised at the conclusion of the last Consultation Committee, where it was announced that support measures would be taken. I wanted to recall what I said last Tuesday in our committee on this adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now received the table promised by the Secretary of State. I would like to ask two brief questions about this. We can do that in a minute. In this way we can avoid the need for a second round. The Secretary of State can answer all of a sudden. Madam Secretary of State, I just want to see if I'm reading the table correctly. It concerns two themes: consultancy and vaccines. I see in your table that EUR 528,000 has been released for consultants and EUR 411,000 for ICT consultants. To sum up, that is 939,000 euros for consultants only for the FPS Public Health, so only for Mr Vandenbroucke. Is this information correct, so almost EUR 1 million to consultants? The second question is specifically about vaccines. There is a breakdown between, on the one hand, the vaccines themselves and, on the other hand, syringes and needles. For syringes and needles, roughly EUR 8 million is involved. For vaccines, some EUR 245 million are declared in commitment appropriations and EUR 481 million in liquidation credits. When we look at all the vaccines that were ordered and paid for in 2020 and 2021, we are talking about EUR 481 million. The table is titled "Besoins jusque fin juin," so what is needed until the end of June 2021. Does that mean that it is only budgeted for the vaccines that will be placed until the end of June 2021, or is it indeed all the vaccines that have been ordered and have to be paid for? I suppose the second is the correct interpretation. It would be a good thing to have transparency here in Parliament and to clarify that all vaccines have been ordered, both for the first and the second injection, and that they will all be paid and that their total cost is about EUR 481 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u27	Madam President, I can answer that directly, in the sense that they are indeed consultants for Public Health, split into general and ICT. Those are indeed the amounts provided for. As far as vaccines are concerned, which is EUR 481 million for all vaccines. I have to double check whether this includes an extra stock of vaccines, so not only what will be given immediately. I think something has been said about this real need, but I have to check whether there is any stock or extra provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u28	Thank you, Mrs De Bleeker. Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u29	Madam President, I have just answered Mr Loones' specific question, but many questions have also been asked about the general budget. We will, of course, continue to discuss this in committee and then in this hemisphere during the debate on budgetary control. Mr Vermeersch's very budgetary questions and more economic questions about the long-term vision, interest rates, European expenditure and so on will also be answered. We are, of course, always looking at the long-term vision. We have agreed to look at the multiannual plan, including the reforms included in the government agreement, which will be very important in each budget debate. A commission of EUR 907 million was foreseen. We have already allocated EUR 1.1 billion of corona-related measures, directly at the base allocation. These are approved files that could be allocated immediately. In that sense, that is very transparent. It remains my objective to be able to allocate the files directly, but sometimes this is not possible because there are still insufficient details. The EUR 575 million in clearing credits and EUR 380 million in commitment credits that are now added to the corona commission are therefore intended for the dossiers that have been requested and which still need to be worked out before they are allocated the right basic allocation. The list of all future dossiers has indeed taken some time, but in order to fill in the extent of that increase as accurately as possible this exercise was necessary. So that took some time. The alternative would be to ask here for a blank cheque of EUR 400, 300, 500 million. I do not think that was desirable. That can be called a margin, but I do not think that this is covered by the definition of good budgeting and estimation. As far as the rounding of the amounts is concerned, granted, in the slideshow that was sometimes a large sum which was not very detailed, you have now received the detailed table. By the way, I forwarded it yesterday at 1 p.m., so we did our best to get it to you as soon as possible. Luckily, in the meantime, it worked. Mr Van Hees, the increase in staff is based on the detailed calculations presented by the supervisory ministers and the requests of the administration. These calculations are more complicated than simply saying that a doubling of files means a doubling of staff. Mrs Matz, the new initiatives and related budgets concerning Justice, the police, etc. are provided for in the original budget. The ministers are working on their plans and as soon as I have the details, I will be able to allocate them to the correct basic allowances. They are currently included in the provision for the new policy. Of course, measures are linked to covid-19, but since it is a question of financing this new policy, the Corona provision is not going to be used. This is temporary and is not the same as the new policy in the government agreement. In conclusion, I will thoroughly analyse all the proposals and recommendations I have heard here today, just as I do with budget requests. The last thing I want is to use the corona pandemic as an excuse to justify everything taking longer. In any case, these are very exceptional times. I take my task to heart, which is to estimate expenditure as accurately as possible at this difficult time. That is why it took two months to make the total picture of the second wave and a small third wave. Of course, I will monitor and monitor everything closely. I will also make sure that the measures are temporary. After that, we will continue to work on the budget with all the members of the government. After all, it is not a de Croo budget or a de Bleeker budget, it is a budget of the Vivaldi government. In the government, of course, I am responsible for monitoring the budget. We are now all going to fight the crisis and then we will get the government's budget back on track. That remains our ambition and I will make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to repeat, particularly on the basis of the principle that Parliament has the last word. After all, we will talk about this on a regular basis. It is good that you confirm the commitment, and perhaps it is politically wise to take a shot at the arm and call it the Vivaldi budget, not the De Bleeker budget. In your place, I might do the same. There is still a lot of work to be done. I'm looking at the table we just got, and Minister Vandenbroucke would apparently like to do 150,000 PCR tests a day. With a price of 37 euros each one comes 5 million euros per day for testing. So it is quite possible that we should be back here faster than we had hoped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u31	I want to reassure the Secretary of State that she doesn't have to order my subscriptions. I would, however, recommend that Mr Loones should be able to arrange this with his large party budget, subscribe to Het Laatste Nieuws and that the Flemish debt should reach EUR 55 billion by 2025. It was once zero, under Secretary Van Mechelen. This is evident from an estimate by the Flemish Minister for the Budget, whom he may know, Matthias Diependaele. This would mean that the debt ratio, the debt against the income of the Flemish government, would rise from 44 % to 103 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u32	I will not repeat myself, but we can continue to have the same debate. It's not about the numbers. The facts are important to be cited, but it is the fact that you are selective in your figures. You literally say that Flanders would do less well than the other governments. That's just not really right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u33	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u34	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1875/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1875/1) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u35	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u36	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u37	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u38	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, 54 million euros are being brought by the federal government today to the distribution of food aid and hygiene products. I can only congratulate you on that. At a time when the number of people seeking food aid is increasing, it is essential to maintain a high budget to support this aid. In 2020, it was on average 175,000 to 195,000 people who benefited each month. That's 30% more than in 2019. As we know, these are also other profiles: students, people in precarious jobs, self-employed people, cultural intermittents who have had no choice but to push the doors of CPAS to obtain food aid. Food is not the only item of expenditure to be taken into account. Essential hygiene is also a real problem when incomes are limited. I am thinking in particular of menstrual protections and diapers. They are expensive products, yet they are essential. Minister, therefore, our group fully supports this bill, which will allow the financing of food banks to be sustained for the coming years, which is crucial, at least in the period we are going through. I take this opportunity to highlight the work done by our various CPAS, which have been in the forefront since the beginning of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u39	Madam President, the draft law before us sets out, on the one hand, the abolition of the Federal European Social Fund and, on the other hand, the creation of a new budgetary fund, the Federal European Social Fund Plus, in order to provide for a structural aid policy for those in need. The current corona crisis has a major financial impact on our society, but not only on the traditionally vulnerable groups. In recent months we also saw a new group knocking on the door of the OCMW's: self-employed and families with young children. The number of applications from the Food Banks is also unseen. The creation of a new organic fund is therefore necessary. Our group will support the draft law, albeit with a critical note. As far as the funds that go to the Food Banks are concerned, we can see that Wallonia is far better distributed than Flanders. Even in the distribution of European social resources, there is a Community distortion, as if there were no poverty in Flanders, while Flanders is also more economically affected by lockdown measures than Wallonia. It is not because the Flemish apparently, unfortunately, has more embarrassment to report to the OCMW that the needs are less great. With regard to the second part of the ESF Plus, I heard from the Minister in committee that the Council of Ministers must reach an agreement on the distribution of these funds. We therefore call on the Flemish majority parties to bear in mind that the corona crisis has hit Flanders exponentially more than Wallonia. This is not a Community sharpening industry, it is a reality. As a Flemish party, therefore, we must pay particular attention to what will happen with the funds. In committee I asked for a final report on the results of the funds already made available, but that pertinent question remained unanswered by the Minister. It is not because the money comes from Europe that Belgium is ultimately a net contributor to the EU, and it is certainly not a mild gift that we do not have to make a post-fact analysis to see whether the funds were well spent and whether the intended goals were achieved. It can help us to make the new resources that have now been made available even more efficient. The ESF Plus has been simplified and other programmes, such as the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived and the Youth Unemployment Programme, have been included. There is therefore less bureaucracy, but the resources must go to what they are intended for. We must pay attention and ensure that concrete measures are taken that are effective investments. That's where things go wrong. The fund may also be used for temporary measures in exceptional and unusual circumstances. Europe has already decided in advance what to do with these funds in Belgium. Our concern is that these funds will be used to finance just current expenditure, and that no projects will be launched that will achieve one of the objectives of the ESF Plus in the long term. This should not go down the same path as the Corona Restoration Fund, where funds go to, for example, digitisation of the courts. I have already mentioned this in committee. These are, of course, not corona repair measures, but a catch-up of what the Belgian government itself has failed to do for decades, in particular to invest in Justice. In general, therefore, we need to use digitalisation, which means investing in new forms of work in the real economy, of course not leading Justice in the 21st century and, so to speak, replacing the fax with the e-mail. In other words, social money must go to social projects. The Flemish Interest Group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for supporting this important bill in committee for our citizens, especially the most disadvantaged. Unfortunately, between 500,000 and 550 000 people today need this food aid, and this only increases with the crisis of both health and social covid-19. The Regions did make a special effort, but the federal government also made it one by putting EUR 7.6 million annually in food aid. The goal is the eradication of poverty. Today, this food aid is essential for the new victims of this crisis: the self-employed, the students, the cultural and event sector. We will therefore continue to pay attention to all these people, hoping that they will be able to get their heads out of the water after the crisis. As you said, in addition to food aid, there will be aid for hygienic products. This is important and it weighs very heavily in household expenses. Thank you for your support and for all the beneficiaries, associations, CPAS and food banks who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u41	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u42	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1816/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1816/3) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip096x.u43	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this morning. We will suspend the work to allow you to feed yourself, and we will meet for the oral questions at 2:15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 1, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 April 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
