ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we start the sitting. I would like to welcome everyone, particularly you, Madam Secretary. I would like to congratulate you on your birthday, but also on behalf of the committee. I wish you a wonderful year of life, in which you will have a great deal of relaxation and in which the committee can have a good cooperation with you. I therefore propose that we start this good cooperation immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u2	Also from my happy birthday, Madam Secretary. At your age, I'm afraid to ask, that's rude. I'm trying to be a gentleman in life, even though you think I yell a lot. Enjoy today! Hopefully your staff will treat you to your cabinet for pie later. Let it taste. A number of cases relating to the quarantine measures for military personnel have already been adapted. We've already talked about that. Of course, military personnel must be as well prepared for foreign operations as possible. As I understand it, they must now go into quarantine 14 days before they are deployed. This is done at the request of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. At the explicit request of some of those international organizations, the Defense Department now organises that isolation at the hotel. Also on the return of the infected soldiers from Niger, the Defense made the choice to put them in a hotel. In the case of previous isolations after infection on the Leopold I, the crew could still carry out their quarantine at home or at the base. How many troops of Defense are currently in preparatory quarantine or post-op quarantine? Is the quarantine still taking place at the hotel or can the DOD organise the quarantine itself in the barracks? How many hotels are rented for that? Which hotels are we talking about? How were they selected? Did that happen through an invitation to tender? Is it just the rent of the buildings or is there additional services? In the latter case, are conditions imposed on hotel staff? What additional costs does that entail for the Defense Department? How much has the DOD spent on hotel expenses since 2020? Can you explain the quarantine regime to which the men are subjected? Does that happen in clusters or are there no restrictions? Do the military have sufficient possibilities for physical activity during their isolation or do they have to stay in their rooms for days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and congratulations on your birthday, Madam Secretary. Enjoy your day after this commission. My questions are somewhat similar to those of Mr Francken. First of all, where is the quarantine period being spent? I have the impression that the answer differs depending on the component. For example, with the sea and the land component, it is. Could you give me a little more explanation about that? Secondly, it seems important to me at a quarantine period at the hotel to keep the people fit. Is there room for training? How can the site be abandoned? In other words, how strict is the quarantine? Thirdly, I have been informed that there has been an investigation or survey among the soldiers who are in quarantine, more specifically about their well-being during that quarantine period. Are there any results of this and can you refer them to this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u4	Thank you for your good wishes for my 20th birthday! On March 15, 137 soldiers were quarantined. Of them 136 were quarantined prior to deployment and one military quarantined after deployment. The quarantine periods are described in procedures. All components should follow these guidelines. Five hotels were used by the DOD for that quarantine. For security reasons, the names of the hotels are not released. The hotel selection was based on the following criteria. Provide the capacity to receive and separate large detachments, 200 military personnel. Be prepared to organize the quarantine according to strict medical guidelines imposed by the Defense Department. Centrally located are in the vicinity of the barracks of Peutie, Melsbroek and the military hospital in Neder-Over-Heembeek. Located outside a commercial region. The reservation was made through our permanent contractual partner Omnia Travel. There was no separate call for tenders, because the deadlines for going through these procedures are difficult to achieve in view of the urgency and nature of the need, which, moreover, constantly changes. The following services are offered: meals, laundry, sports, fitness, internet and the reception of any postal packages. The covid protocols of the hotels were screened and approved by the Medical Component. The hotel staff must adhere strictly to these protocols. The hotel staff shall not have direct contact with the personnel of the Ministry of Defence who are in quarantine, only with the support detachment deployed as liaison. Until the end of the previous billing period on 15 March, a total of 3,824,135 euro was paid in hotel charges. An individual chamber shall be assigned to the military for the duration of the quarantine. The groups are divided into clusters of up to five soldiers. There is no contact between the different clusters. During the quarantine period they usually stay in the room, only for certain activities such as sports, the room may be left in a controlled manner. In order for the quarantine to run correctly, a support detachment is replaced. That detachment provides, among other things, the distribution of meals and the collection of laundry. It is also the first point of contact for personnel in quarantine. All personnel, including the support detachment, follow the guidelines of the Medical Component. Twice a day symptoms are monitored. At the end of the quarantine period, each military shall undergo a PCR test and a final medical check shall be organised in order to obtain a maximum guarantee of a covid-free departure from quarantine. Surveys are being carried out, but not all results have yet been processed. A brochure on how to deal with quarantine was prepared. This brochure also contains a number of contact points at the Health & Well-being staff department. In the event of urgent problems, the detachment in quarantine may always call for permanent support. The detachment also has a comprehensive practical guide, which explains the rational and the risks of quarantine and gives tips on how to combat these risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u5	Madam Minister, I understand that almost 4 million euros of hotel costs have already been incurred. If you say you're working with Omnia Travel, a regular partner, who doesn't need a tender because you couldn't go so fast, I'll give you a tip. I experienced the same situation in 2015 with the asylum crisis. Then we also had to switch quickly, to open asylum centres. Then we also had the problem of tendering. If that takes too long, those people are on the streets, and that can't be the intention. I think we had to make an urgent call at the time, by the Finance Inspector. Well, we did. I am convinced that there will be an extensive inquiry from the Court of Auditors, just as at the time. During the asylum crisis, I had a very extensive investigation, of course post factum, after the asylum crisis. After the corona crisis, the Court of Auditors will certainly do an extensive study. I suggest you be careful and make sure you're okay. No tender for EUR 3.8 million, which is a huge amount of money. I assume that there are still more than five hotels in non-tourist areas that could offer such a service. I think that many hotels now, at this time, would be particularly interested to be able to offer them. After all, the hotels are flat, there is almost no capacity utilisation. I hope this will be looked at carefully from the government and with the Inspector of Finance. If a call for tenders is required, it may be very urgent within a number of days, or at least the call for tenders may be issued and the award may follow within one or two weeks. That has to be looked at. It would be a pity if the Court of Auditors had to turn a finger on you for that, Madam Secretary. Furthermore, you have already partially relaxed the quarantine scheme. I think it's better now. The quarantine after return was partly phased out, and now it applies mainly to when one has to leave. I think that's better. Let's hope we get our people vaccinated in surgeries as soon as possible. Then none of that is necessary, or at least not to that extent. That's parallel, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u6	Madam Minister, we have just talked about vaccination and, if time permits, we will come back to it later. The vaccination will help a great deal, first and foremost in the social field. If someone is sent out for months, away from his family, and then has to spend another two weeks in a lonely hotel, that is for no one fun and certainly not for people who want to leave as soon as possible and go into surgery. That vaccination will help us to do so and will also help us to reduce the very high cost indeed. With regard to the survey, I will ask for the results in writing. We must continue to be concerned about the mental well-being of our military. It's a general priority to talk about mental well-being. Everyone does that now, you can't open a newspaper without reading about it. The mental well-being in corona times for our military is truly essential and priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u7	Last time, the neutrality of my presence was questioned. I therefore propose that Mr De Vuyst lead the sitting temporarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u8	Mr Buysrogge, I will temporarily observe the Vice-Presidentship. I now give the floor to Mrs Ponthier on bilateral cooperation between Belgium and China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u9	Mr President, Minister, the question I will now be asking dates back a while, but it remains very topical to me. On Monday 18 January 2021 you had a meeting with the Chinese ambassador in Belgium. During that discussion, you said that you mentioned, among other things, bilateral cooperation in the field of defence between Belgium and China. I would have liked to ask you the following questions. First of all, at whose request did the consultation come? What did the agenda of the meeting look like? In other words, what subjects were discussed during the consultation? In what context should we place the consultation? Secondly, what does bilateral cooperation between Belgium and China mean? What steps have been taken in this respect? What steps are still in the pipeline? Thirdly, the following question on consultation with the new Strategic Committee is important. In what way did it become involved in the consultation? What were the points of interest raised by the Committee? After all, a Chinese expert is part of the Strategic Committee. I'm sure he briefed you before the meeting. Will there be any feedback with the committee, or has that already been done? If so, when did that happen? Are you planning a new consultation with the Chinese Ambassador or other relevant actors in the short term? If so, when will this consultation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u10	Mr President, Minister, on cooperation with China, I agree with the questions raised by Mrs Ponthier. I brought in the tweet again. "Today I had a conversation with Chinese ambassador in Belgium @ChinaAmbBelgium, Cao Zhongming about our bilateral cooperation." The term "bilateral cooperation" written by a Minister of Defence does, of course, raise some questions. Afterwards, that was a little minimized by your communication people. There would be no bilateral cooperation. That reassures me a little. It was more about a purely protocolary, diplomatic interview. With your tweet of January 18, you had communicated a little too strong and positive. What agreements were reached with the Chinese ambassador in the framework of this bilateral cooperation on 18 January? Can you confirm that there are agreements, formal or informal, with China or that there are plans to engage in such cooperation in the framework of defence with China? Can you also give an overview of the study trips, visits and exchanges of persons or information last year between Defence and China? Were you approached by our allies about your communications about the maintenance? This would mean a new strategic cooperation. Will you be planning further consultations with the ambassador in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u11	As part of a series of meetings with various ambassadors, I had a meeting with the Chinese ambassador on 18 January last. That meeting took place at the request of Mr Zhongming himself. Since my appointment as Minister of Defence, I have had such introductory meetings with, among other things, the ambassadors of the United States, France and the Netherlands. Such visits are planned in the coming weeks and months. In this case it was a protocol meeting in which we talked about relations between our countries in general. During that conversation, no decision was made. Nor are any changes planned as regards bilateral relations between Belgium and China as a result of the meeting. The Strategic Committee is in no way involved in that meeting. Nor will it have any impact on the work of the Strategic Committee. Belgium has no structural military cooperation with China. The KHID each year welcomed a Chinese intern who came to follow the second and third cycles as part of the candidate-higher officer training at the Royal Military School. This has not been the case since the end of the academic year 2019-2020. The WHI, CDSCA and DG HR visited a Chinese delegation in 2019, led by the Chinese Deputy Minister for Veterans who was benchmarking veterans' policy. In the same year, several of our military took part in the international military World Championships in Wuhan. In the year 2018, there were no activities to report regarding China. In 2017 there were three Chinese naval ships in the port of Antwerp on the occasion of the Flemish Port Day, which could be visited. In 2016, a Chinese delegation visited the Chemical Weapon Destruction Unit in Poelkapelle. Finally, the then Minister of Defence, Steven Vandeput, and the then CHOD visited China as part of the state visit organized by the Royal House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I note that your maintenance was part of a series of introductory protocol meetings. For the record, there's nothing wrong with that, of course. You say that there is no structural cooperation between our country and China. We take note of that. I must say that your tweet seems somewhat wrong in relation to the way in which you are proposing things now. Whether we want it or not, China is increasingly a crucial factor in a number of security files. I mention, for example, the maritime disputes in the South China Sea and the rivalry with the US. Defence and our foreign policy in general cannot be separated from that in their approach. When we discuss possible cooperation with China, whether in the field of defence or in the field of foreign policy, we must always bear in mind a degree of alertness and vigilance. If there is any evolution in this area, it seems to me appropriate to continue to ensure the interaction with the strategic committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The communication you bring today, and also the communication your spokesperson managed to bring soon after your tweet, is reassuring, in that no decisions have been taken. We are talking about a series of protocol meetings, which are in itself nothing wrong with them, and no changes are planned. That is somewhat contrary to your tweet in which you speak of 'our bilateral cooperation', with which I quote literally, while you say that there is no structural bilateral cooperation. Those two things don't match completely. I assume that you have tweeted a little too quickly and that there is no structural bilateral cooperation. You did not answer the question whether you were addressed by one of our allies about your tweet. I understand that you correct me if that interpretation is wrong, as if you were not addressed by any of the allies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u14	I refer to the written version of my question before the introduction and confine myself to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u15	Are you aware of the facts cited? More essential are the questions of how you see the developments in the diplomatic and military field for the role of Belgium and our military and what Belgium's strategy is going to be, if the US is indeed seeing this since the arrival of our all friend Biden and possibly other NATO fellow members strengthen their presence in Syria in support of the Kurdish YPG.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u16	At the end of 2020, Ms Ponthier, former President Trump did not order the withdrawal of US troops from Syria, nor did the new Biden administration envisage a reorientation of the US strategy on Syria. Former President Trump announced at the end of 2020 a reduction in the number of U.S. soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. The presence of an American convoy on Syrian territory is therefore not illogical. The peace talks on a new constitution as a basis for Syrian elections are under the supervision of the UN and continue in Geneva, but progress is slow. Defence participates in the Inherent Resolve operation in the framework of the ISIS coalition with a detachment F-16's. The aim of our contribution is to protect coalition forces in the further fight against ISIS in Iraq and Northeast Syria. No changes to the mandate are therefore planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u17	Madam Minister, I also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the same question, and I received her reply just before President Biden's first attack on Syria. Her answer was quite striking, because she said there was no indication that the US would strengthen their presence in Syria, while President Biden immediately caught the cow on the same day and re-enforced the US military presence in Syria. I take note of your answer. We will follow very closely the attitude and vision of the US on the one hand and the Middle East on the other, and I shall certainly come back to this at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u18	Madam Secretary, the Germans and Dutch have been working together for several years in a mixed tank battalion stationed in Lower Saxony, in northern Germany. In fact, the Netherlands leases German Leopard 2 tanks. The battalion consists of Dutch and German soldiers. Cooperation has been going on for several years and seems fruitful because recently, a few months ago, it was announced that joint technology will be developed. The benefits of such collaborations are clear. Belgium does them, too. The costs and expertise are shared, there is training with a neighbouring partner. For the Netherlands there is of course also the advantage that in this way the expertise of heavy firepower on caterpillars is maintained within Defence. In recent years, has Belgium been forced to participate in that project, not only since you were Minister, but also before that? If so, why did the answer appear to have been negative? If there have been no contacts, what is your opinion on this concept? Is that what you're interested in? Can that be investigated further? That can vary a lot. Observers can be sent. An exchange can be set up, but the question is then what. Also military can simply participate and the binational battalion becomes a trinational battalion. The advantage of this would be that we too would retain that expertise. To what extent do you already have bilateral contact with the German Defence Minister? That's a lot more relevant than the Chinese ambassador. It's perfectly normal for a minister to have contacts with the Chinese ambassador. When I was working in Cabinets, I also had contacts with the Chinese embassy, as with so many other countries. We are both in Lithuania and in Mali together with the Germans. Germany is sometimes an underestimated potential partner country for our Defense Department. Could you explain your contacts with the German Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u19	In this chair, of course, I fully maintain my neutrality and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u20	Mr President, Mr Pillen, Belgium has not been formally asked to take part in the Dutch-German Leopard 2 project. Given the renewed importance of collective defense, there is certainly a need within NATO for mechanized land forces on large-powered track vehicles. However, this does not mean that each Member State must have tanks. It is not realistic for Belgium today, given the budgetary framework, the staff reality and the many necessary investments, to rebuild a heavy land capacity, in addition to maintaining the current motorised land force. Belgium focuses on Medium Force based on well-protected combat vehicles on wheels. There has not yet been direct contact with my German colleague, but there are regular bilateral contacts between the two diplomatic advisers, including in the framework of the ministerial meetings. Furthermore, there are regular contacts between the two defences, such as the annual joint staff talks for monitoring joint operations or talks at the level of the commanders of the Land Component and at the level of the Director-General, where DGMR attends a three-monthly trilateral meeting between Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. In addition, Belgium has a permanent liaison officer in the EFK, as Germany is our largest partner in operations abroad. As regards the meeting with the German Minister, a meeting is planned in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This political choice was made in the early 2000s by Mr Flahaut, among others, to choose the median capacity. That's absolutely true. It was confirmed in front of my party, in the years 2000 and in the previous legislature, with the purchase of the CaMo project. It is not about that: that choice was made sustainably and continues to be made. Here, however, we miss an opportunity, as you say, to sit with our main partner abroad, Mali and Lithuania, to acquire a piece of their expertise without ending up in a debate on free riding. Yesterday, after the publication of the NATO figures, that was a good thing again. It could be an added value for Defense and for maintaining expertise within Defense, in a cheap and efficient way, with our main partners, our border countries. I will certainly continue to follow the activities of that battalion, with great interest, and make further suggestions about it where necessary. I think your contacts with the Germans are very good, Madam Secretary. I maintain that sometimes we all too often forget this country as an important partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u22	Madam Secretary, I am talking about the Dutch again, which does not mean that I do not succeed the French Defence Department, I do. I think it is important that Parliament occasionally looks over the walls and certainly the Dutch. In the middle of January, your Dutch fellow Secretary of State, Mr Visser, who may not be your colleague any longer, signed a covenant with Shell that would allow Shell employees to be given special leave to serve as a reserver in the armed forces. A Dutch colonel, quoted in the media, spoke of an adaptive armed force and praised Shell's relevant knowledge on topics of great importance to the Dutch armed forces. Conversely, Shell's representative said the same thing. He talked about a flexible shell and said the same thing as the colonel. They therefore found each other particularly complementary. Hence the covenant. I have already argued in favour of this type of cooperation during the long debates on the policy paper and also through a number of questions. I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done on the reserve, such as the creation of such cooperation. Firstly, in the Netherlands, a colonel, nevertheless a high level, makes work of that kind of cooperation. How exactly does that work in Belgium? Is there an active search or not? I'd like to get some explanation on that. Secondly, does Defence have a general framework within which such agreements can be concluded? Is there any such structural cooperation, for example with companies? If not, what is your position on the matter? Thirdly and finally, what initiatives are you planning to make it more attractive to start part of his career with the reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, I also wish you a very happy birthday. Madam Minister, in your general policy note, you have rightly committed yourself to modernising the concept of the reserve and to making the status of this concept more attractive and flexible. I would like to ask you, today, about the specific situation of the private sector employee who must arrange with his employer to carry out his recall days, which is usually more complicated than for an official or, by definition, an independent. In this case, the Reservist is obliged to use his or her paid leave to release himself or is obliged to request leave without pay. You will agree with me that none of these options is ideal since either he will have to work for a whole year without "real" days off, or he will see the number of days off to which he is entitled the following year. It must be admitted that this situation is quite discouraging because, despite all the motivation to serve the Nation, it requires certain sacrifices. In addition, this obviously has a negative impact in terms of attracting reserve-motivated employees, which is reduced or, worse yet, when a reservist who has been trained and equipped decides to disengage. Madam Minister, in order to avoid this, is there a specific "heading code" to be shown on the reservist employee's pay slip from the private sector that can allow him to free himself from his employment, obviously in consultation with his employer, without having to devote his paid leave to it, without being paid by his private employer but only by the Defence, and no longer having to take leave without pay? I know that there was previously a code, that is, code 9580 (militarism duties) Is there a similar code for reservists? If not, why not? Would you consider setting up such a code or any other provision that would have the same effect for reservists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I am interested in the renewed approach to the reserves. The example of Shell in the Netherlands, a company about which I don't normally have so many praises to say, is interesting and has attracted my attention. You announced a new approach in your policy paper. How do you see that? Do we have an approach to that kind of cooperation? Are there any initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u25	Mr President, the HRB-DNR department is responsible for the policy and management of the reserve troops in the Belgian Defence Department. The service belongs to the General Directorate of Human Resources. Today we are working on the search for partnerships, for example with training bodies to provide joint training. In addition, there are contacts with different sectors to investigate whether Defence can provide a solution for staff who lose their jobs temporarily or permanently because of COOVID-19. The reserve is a possible piste. Partnerships with the business world will certainly be discussed later. Over the past year, the focus has been on making a career more attractive as a reserve military. In addition to a job in civilian life, there was already the possibility to perform a number of re-vocational days as a reserve military in the Defense Department and thus to be part-time military. In the meantime, other recruitment opportunities have also been opened up. The defence official can take part in foreign assignments as a reserve military officer, students can present themselves as a reserve military student during school holidays and those with specific competences can postulate via an open application, by submitting a curriculum vitae. Finally, it is also possible to offer yourself locally in a barracks for a general support function, such as volunteer cook or petty officer-manager. From civil life, the postulant can also apply for a full-time position as a reserve military at Defense. He or she may then influx through a direct voluntary encading performance. These different possibilities of deployment provide a flexible statute and make it easier for those who want to join the reserve to combine a job in civilian life with a job as a reservist in the way that suits them best. In the area of remuneration, the reserve framework soldiers carrying out re-vocational days have been entitled since 1 January 2021 to a remuneration equivalent to that of the military of the active framework. In future, reserve soldiers performing re-call days will also be entitled to various allowances and allowances in accordance with the performances carried out. A military member of the reserve framework providing a voluntary encading performance shall receive a monthly remuneration, supplemented by allowances and allowances. The cooperation between Defence and private companies is a specific focus in my policy paper. I have already asked the defence staff to take additional initiatives in this area, and I will follow the dossier carefully. The operation of the reserve is based on the provision of the reserve member's skills to the Defence. This provision is made on a voluntary basis, after consultation with the Reservist and his employer. Therefore, there is no specific heading code to be shown on the private sector payroll. The particularity of reservist status is that it requires a win win win linking the Reservist, the employer and the Defence. On the one hand, the Reservist must be interested in the exercise of this function. On the other hand, its services must have added value to Defence. Finally, the employer must also find an interest or, at least, not suffer negative consequences. To date, given the great complexity of reservist status, no such "code entry" is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u26	Madam Secretary, the positive story of Shell and the Dutch Defence was, of course, a concrete one. I remember, in particular, that you and the Defense Staff are working hard on this. I really think that this should be one of the priorities, alongside the many others, of your policy. It is very good to give that reserve a second breath. We have discussed earlier that reservists cannot take holidays and even civil servants get into trouble with their days off when they take up a job as a reservist. People with expertise and interest are in fact treated like an 18-year-old millionaire who comes in for the first time. They have to show up early and get through a lot of assessments, while the expertise is actually detectable. In such cases, something goes wrong in the system, and in this way, the Defence Department does not show itself to be an attractive partner for those people, even if we need them very much. The Dutch system seems to me to be a system to follow, which is why I am asking this question. I am sure that we will see significant improvements from you and the Defence staff in this matter very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You say there are many possibilities for reservists. I think that there should certainly be attention to practical support. You're working on that, and I appreciate that. We will certainly follow that up. The focus must now be on consultation with the business community, following the successful example in the Netherlands, from which we can draw inspiration. In addition to negotiations with industry, the legal framework must also be defined. The framework on insurance is not as it should be at the moment. There is therefore a great deal to be said for a global approach to the use of the reserve framework, as applied in the Netherlands. Here, too, I believe that a change of attitude is needed, as Mr Pillen just mentioned. The current view of reserveists is not as it should be, while a well-developed reserve framework meets certain needs and is useful for people who contribute to our security from the Defence Department. I am therefore very much in favour of upgrading the reserve status. We must also work on the development and support of the mixed career, as you point out. Sensitising to the outside world is also necessary. The reserve framework must be made attractive, which is actually a necessity for the military profession in general. Our best ambassadors are the current reserveists, who can train young reservists in the best way possible. I would therefore ask you to ensure that young people are made aware of this, because unknown is unloved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's very encouraging for our reservists. The efforts that you and the staff are making are in perfect harmony with the motion for a resolution that I initiated on human resources policy in Defence. Among other things, she called on the government to strengthen the role of the Reserve in Defence in order to alleviate the current strength. You can obviously have all the support of our group and, more broadly, of this Parliament to complement existing capacities, to increase them, with complementary skills, to compensate for the wave of retirements and to compensate for the shortage of staff. There's a lot of work to do, but we're confident in your action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u29	Madam Secretary, since I've been on this committee, I've met some reservists. I've always been touched by these people's commitment. You spoke of a win-win situation. I do not always feel that is the case today, especially in relation to some employers. Today, they mainly compensate for the win-win situation with that involvement. From your answers and your approach, I understand that we are working to improve the situation so that we can get closer to the win-win situation. That is good and we will certainly continue to follow this with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u30	Mr President, Minister, in the course of 2020, a resolution was adopted by this Parliament in favour of new barracks, in East Flanders and in Hainaut. That's the way it is in this country. In the discussions of the policy letter, I said that I was pleased to read that this commitment was also included in the coalition agreement. So we're going for a barracks in East Flanders. I also asked you a written question on this matter on 20 January 2021. You replied that no choice had yet been made with regard to the location where that new quarter would take place. I must say, I was reassured. In De Tijd of 13 January 2021 we read that there would be a new barracks in West Flanders. I hope and assume that was a lapsus, I'm late in the middle of whose lapsus came. So it's about a barracks in East Flanders. Then the question is how we will address the choice of location and implementation. I was also triggered by an article in La Libre Belgique dated 6 January 2021. In it, the journalist writes, I quote: "According to our information, the choice should be on one of these three cities: Alost, Saint-Nicolas or Aalter". According to that journalist, these are the three municipalities or cities that are eligible. In reply to my written question, you also said that consultation with local actors and possibly future partners was started. Then the question is: which city councils have you been with or have the people of Defense already sat around the table? The aim is, after all, to start the construction of the new quarters during this term of office. My questions are as follows. Do you have any information where the new barracks will be built? Where are we on setting up the timing? Which local actors did you consult? To what extent will you involve Parliament in the further development and choice of these barracks? With what resources, possibly European resources, will you achieve the funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u31	Mr President, at this stage no site was chosen for the new quarters in Hainaut and East Flanders. The aim is to start with the realization of the new quarters during this legislature. Consultations with local actors and possible future partners were launched. Contacts have already been established, among other things, with the Provincial Development Society East Flanders, the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agency, the city of Aalst and the municipality of Aalter. For a preference of location to be expressed, elements such as recruitment potential, concrete cooperation opportunities, and future local master plans need to be identified. The sites will be presented for agreement to the Council of Ministers on the basis of the military prospecting and study currently carried out by the Defence Staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for that additional clarification, by indicating with which partners there have already been initial contacts. I do not know whether we can conclude from this that it will be one of these two municipalities, or that there will be other pistes explored. That is not quite clear to me. In any case, I wish you every support in continuing to work towards a solution and a successful realization of the barracks. In any case, I will continue to monitor Parliament's involvement and the extent to which it will be financed. I will therefore continue to ask you questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u33	Madam Secretary, the Strategic Vision envisaged that Defence would modernise the individual armament of its infantrymen with a new standard weapon in the period 2022-2023. It was intended to replace the existing patrimony of weapons of FN Herstal with a new, multifunctional carabiner weapon. The last major purchase was in 2012 with an order of about 4,000 copies, but most of the stock of Defense is still made up of material that has been in service since the late 1970s. A large update of the arsenal is needed. Back in 2017, Minister Vandeput stated that he wanted to purchase 9.427 new carbines. Madam Secretary, can you give an update on the replacement programme for the new standard weapon? When is the tender scheduled? Is Defense open to offers from other producers or does it wish to extend the existing patrimony to SCAR-L's further? The strategic vision includes a budget of EUR 24 million. Will these resources be sufficient? Will you stick to that budget? How do you see that? Can you indicate how many weapons of these different types are still in use at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u34	In 2018, a procedure was launched for the replacement of the individual weapon, the FNC, over ten years, 2018-2028. The procedure was awarded to FN Herstal and provided for the supply of individual weapons, type P-90, SCAR and grenade launchers, for a total budget of 40.8 million euros, including VAT, for all Defence capabilities. This is an updated budget. After all, the strategic vision refers to 2015 amounts, which still need to be indexed. The arms deliveries were initially planned over a period of 10 years, but in 2020 it was decided to accelerate the roll-out of 9.427 SCARs, 688 P-90s and 79 grenade launchers 40 mm from the end of 2020, 2021 and 2022. The replacement programme is ongoing and no new public procedure should be initiated. At present there are 10.107 units FNC, 4.498 units SCAR, 1.037 units P90 and 76 units F2000 in use, outside deliveries by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u35	I conclude from this that the replacement is in full swing. I'll make peace with that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u36	Madam Secretary, the Godetia has begun its last mission. This puts an end to the deployment of the ship of nearly 56 years. There is no longer a need for a command and logistics support ship. In the future, this capacity will mainly be absorbed by mine hunters. However, it was agreed that Defense would contribute to the Dutch Joint Support Ship Karel Doorman. In 2016 a MOU was signed, which would serve a Belgian crew on the Doorman with possibly a medical team or the deployment of a helicopter. In return, the Netherlands would assist us with amphibious training. Madam Secretary, what is the fate of the Godetia? Will the ship be scraped or sold? What will happen to it? Will the DOD or the WHI preserve parts of the ship? Can you give an update on the Belgian participation in the Karel Doorman? What steps have already been taken to further formalise and possibly extend cooperation? At the time of the operation Sea Guardian in 2018, Belgian soldiers were shipped to the Karel Doorman. What significant contributions from our Defense to the ship have taken place since then? The Netherlands and Germany already have a working partnership for the Joint Support Ship in 2021. What contribution is our defense expected to make? How will you fill it out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u37	The material manager operating equipment for the General Directorate of Material Resources has proposed to the Minister of Defense to shred the A960 Godetia after it has been removed from circulation. Defence wants to maintain radar components, among other things, and will demand the needs of the WHI. The Dutch Joint Support Ship Karel Doorman is now in charge of a training assignment. Within the framework of the existing Belgian-Dutch cooperation agreement, the Belgian Navy intends to ship its candidates from the increased recruitment on board that Dutch ship in order to allow them to gain maximum on board experience during their waiting or evaluation period. After Operation Sea Guardian in 2018, Defense has no longer contributed on board the Charles Doorman. No contribution is expected this year either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the fate of the Godetia is unfortunately sealed. The ship will be scraped, some parts will be recovered and it will be checked whether the WHI material can still unlock or preserve museums. That's what we're looking forward to. I also assume that after the disruption and sale the value of the ship will be below the threshold to be explained in the commission for Army Purchases and Sales. Otherwise, I look forward to having it explained in our committee. With regard to cooperation with the Netherlands, I look forward to further developing this cooperation, especially in the field of the Navy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u39	Minister, in the framework of the pilot projects of the European Defence Fund (EDF), Preparation Action on Defence Research (PADR) and EU Defence Industrial Development Programme (EDIDP), Belgium co-finances two EDIDP projects: LynkEUs and iMUGS. The first is part of the call for projects on updating and developing ground precision strike capabilities. The second aims to develop a standardised European system for terrestrial robots. The vote of the European Defence Fund at the European Council is on the agenda of 25 and 26 March 2021. However, as a majority of ECR/EPP/Renew argued in the trialogues that the only directly elected institution in the European Parliament did not have its place, even as an observer, in the project selection committee, there is currently no transparency in this process when it comes to amounts of €8 billion in public funds. On the other hand, as far as ethical control is concerned, there seems to be a structural problem inherent in the composition of the ethics committee. They are officials of the Ministries of Defence, usually lawyers. There are no experts from civil society or academia in the broad sense. This raises the question of obvious conflicts of interest. Moreover, there is no systematic ethical monitoring of projects co-financed by the EDF, but only at the discretion of the European Commission. What are the amounts committed by Belgium under the European Defence Fund? How were projects co-financed by Belgium selected? What is Belgium's position on transparency in project selection? What about the Belgian delegation to the EDF Ethics Committee? How is it composed? Are there any beacons to prevent Belgium from co-financing weapons of mass destruction under the EDF? Are the projects selected by the EDF obliged to comply with EU criterion 8 on arms exports and to harmonise different export policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u40	Mr President, the EDF regulation is a document drawn up between the Commission, the Member States and the European Parliament. Article 7 deals with the ethical rules applicable to project proposals. The EDF is mainly financed by the Community budget and the Member States co-finance the projects they support. At this stage, the confirmed projects are those of the 2019 EDIDP calls. The Belgian share for LynkEUs is EUR 25 000 and the share for iMUGS is EUR 370 000. GEODE, a Galileo Public Regulated Service programme, is supported by Belgium to the tune of EUR 9 million, including EUR 4 million from Defence and EUR 5 million from BELSPO. In order to be supported by Belgium, a project must meet a defence capacity requirement. The current reference to determine its needs is the Defence Strategic Vision released in 2016 and is being updated. The projects selected in the work programme shall be validated by the Programme Committee composed of the Commission and the Member States, together with the European Defence Agency and the European External Action Service as observers. This will take place on the basis of a proposal drawn up by the Commission, supported by its independent experts. The Belgian representatives in the EDIDP Programme Committee, and in the future of the EDF, call for full transparency in the selection of the projects selected within the programme. It should be noted that ethical criteria are not a selection criterion, but rather an exclusion. Any project that does not meet ethical criteria is not eligible for the fund. As regards ethics, the evaluation of EDF projects will be carried out in two stages. Industrial participants who introduce a project in response to an appeal must, at the request of the Commission, be able to prove that it meets the ethical requirements applicable by the Member State in whose territory they are located. The Belgian authorities will therefore have to approve the industry's proposals on the basis of a committee to be set up within the SPF Economy. In a second phase, the projects will be monitored by an ethics committee within the European Commission. Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Regulation specifies that Member States do not participate in this second phase. The Committee is composed of independent experts under the Commission and not representatives of the defence ministries of the Member States. Belgian co-financing is applicable only to projects actually supported by Belgium. Since the development of weapons of mass destruction is not part of the strategic vision of Defence, such proposals will not be supported and will therefore not be co-financed by Belgium. The EDF covers only the research and development of equipment and not their acquisition or export. The European and national, or regional, directives in the case of Belgium therefore remain fully applicable for products developed under the Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u41	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We still feel a desire for opacity on the part of the European Council. We are talking about €8 billion in total projects that have a significant potential impact on the security orientations for the European Union and its members. We have the impression that, in reality, there is a will to put people on the sidelines through their direct representatives, in what remains of society choices. These are, it seems to me, really not anodized. It is necessary to have serious control over these projects, from their selection to their implementation. I am pleased to hear you say that Belgium advocates full transparency in the selection process. This reassures me as to the position of the latter. I think we also need to think carefully about how to improve the functioning and composition of all ethics committees, and of this ethics committee in particular. Jurists are not philosophers, politicians, sociologists, and I pass. Just validating the legality of projects is not a matter of ethics, especially when it comes to innovation. By definition, situations are created when they did not previously exist. Legislation is therefore not necessarily in place to regulate these new situations. I encourage you to have a proactive vision for a better ethics and membership of ethics committees for these kinds of projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u42	Minister, first of all, I wish you a happy birthday. Madam Minister, the United States, under their new presidency, announced last February that the withdrawal of American soldiers to Europe had been halted, which had been decided under Donald Trump's presidency. Thus, the commander of the troops in Europe explains that the plans of the American army on European territory will be completely reassessed. Initially, it was expected that the US Army would withdraw a large part of its soldiers to Europe and reposition others. Moreover, the European headquarters (EUCOM) was to be moved from Stuttgart to Casteau in the Mons region. This huge project will probably also be re-examined, to the detriment of our country's interests. Minister, what will be the consequences of this decision in terms of the presence of American soldiers in Belgium? What about the planned relocation of EUCOM to the Mons region?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u43	Madam Secretary, I will be brief. I shall drop the part of my question on Afghanistan, because it has already been discussed in previous committee meetings. I also have a question about the plans announced regarding the relocation of EUCOM. Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) Wolters has expressed this differently. I'd have liked to have gotten an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u44	Madam Secretary, I agree with the same questions. What exactly is the situation with regard to the possible reduction of the troops?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u45	Minister, I wish you an excellent and happy birthday. Give yourself the time to celebrate with your family!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u47	To date, the United States has not officially communicated with Belgium about the relocation of US troops from Germany. As there is no official communication yet, it is premature to prepare concrete plans. The government will start the file at the appropriate time, when there are specific details. The postponement of the relocation plans of American troops has no impact on the American troops already present. If the United States decides to move troops, their status will have to be negotiated with the Belgian government. As far as the question on Afghanistan is concerned, no new information has yet been available from President Biden's administration. The consequences of withdrawal are therefore difficult to predict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u48	Minister, I take note of the fact that we cannot yet find out more at this time. We hope that the decisions to be taken by the US administration will also be in the interests of our country and that the bilateral relations that you can make use of will be effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u49	I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u50	We'll follow the situation. I think it's all gonna cool down eventually without blowing. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the redeployment plan was suspended by President Biden, until a general assessment of the US military presence in the world was drawn up, in order to ensure that this footprint was consistent with US foreign policy. This is a return to reason, since President Trump's earlier decision was in fact to direct sanctions against Germany. It is a pity to take such serious action against an ally, a member of NATO and of the European Union. Irrespective of the repercussions which could benefit Belgium, if the decision were to be confirmed to our advantage, it would nevertheless be true that, in the context of an approach based on European solidarity, any American decision must obviously be assessed on the basis of this observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u52	Madam Minister, there are many challenges in the policy of defence in the field of air traffic control in terms of both formation, attraction, attrition and remuneration. In addition, there are still many steps to be taken in terms of the proposed and planned synergy between Defence and Skeyes. In this context, promises and concrete proposals have already been made, but this could not prevent a great deal of uncertainty on the ground, not least among the staff. Madam Secretary, what about the review of the ATC premium? What is the specific timeline for its implementation? For my questions on the synergy between Defence and Skeyes, I refer to the written text of my question as tabled. What steps will the Department of Defence take to improve the quality and quantity of recruitment for ATC? Finally, has the DOD already considered outsourcing area control to Eurocontrol, for example, as happened in Germany? If so, why, if not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u53	Military and civilian air traffic controllers each retain their own identity. With the human resource implementation agreement, once the technical systems are more aligned, we want to be able to exchange air traffic controllers. It is not an end in itself to completely closing the gap between soldiers and citizens in terms of remuneration. There is indeed a study in progress on the existing allowances for military air traffic controllers and air fighters. This study is in a conceptual phase and therefore there is not yet a specific tideline. It is being considered together with other proposed initiatives, such as re-enactment in the political orientation paper. A study is under way to determine delta formation for military air traffic controllers and air traffic controllers of skeyes. This is done in consultation with the various partners, including skeyes and the skeye training centre, Entry Point North Belgium. This is also discussed with the relevant Belgian national supervisory authorities and Entry Point North. The concrete training plan will not be developed until the full analysis is available. This complete analysis should then give a picture of the formations required to complement the formations already taken, for the different populations within the existing air traffic controllers. It is necessary to take account of the staffing of the two organisations in the workplace. The parallelness in time for training, necessary for the exchange of both personnel groups, is not an end in itself. However, it is not an end in itself to avoid similarity. In order for military air traffic controllers to receive additional training without having an impact on the level of ambition of the air component, which also requires support for the implementation of the flight plan and training plan for the different units, it is indeed necessary to create space for that training. In this sense, any injection of additional air traffic controllers into the military workplace, wherever they may be, gives just that breathing space to enable military air traffic controllers to start their training to exchange. We wish to focus on the recruitment initiatives, in collaboration with skeyes, in order to get more air traffic controllers in the workplace in the first place. Then we will look into the exchange of air traffic controllers. Defense is by no means meant to become the training center for skyes. On 4 December 2018, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Eurocontrol, skeyes, the former Belgocontrol, and Defence, to carry out a joint study for the possible future implementation of the SAS air traffic control system3. A joint civil-military air traffic control system is an important lever for further integration of air traffic control services. The decision whether or not to switch to the new system will be based on the results of the feasibility study and is expected in the second trimester of 2021. In response to the objective of the previous coalition agreement regarding the integration of civil and military air traffic control services, a joint study was carried out by skeyes and Defense. This study showed numerous cooperation opportunities within the full spectrum of air traffic management. The results of the study led to a number of agreements and basic agreements, which were validated in 2017 in a notation by former Defence and Mobility Ministers. It has always been stated that Defence must at all times be able to guarantee sufficient personnel with the necessary competences and expertise to meet its current and future military operational requirements and training requirements. Those principles were respected in determining the different forms of staff cooperation in the HR implementation agreement between skeyes and Defense. Until further notice, Defence has no intention to deviate from this and continues to focus on recruiting military air traffic controllers in the active framework. In order to secure the service by 2030, Defence has just made some important strategic choices, including the Skyes Agreement for Air Traffic Management Services Cooperation, but also the Cooperation Agreement with Eurocontrol for the implementation and implementation of the SAS2 Joint Air Traffic Management System. These choices perpetuate military and civil services in a rapidly evolving and competitive international environment. Moreover, its implementation is fully in line with the vision of Belgian airspace endorsed by former Defence and Mobility Ministers in 2019. Many initiatives are being taken to recruit military air traffic controllers. In the context of collaboration with skeyes, the military air traffic controller's job is also mentioned on the skeyes website. In addition, Defense actively uses social media with targeted recruitment messages, organise ATC Job Days in the different units and participate military air traffic controllers in job fairs and specific recruitment activities, such as We Fly to Your Dream. Finally, digital job fairs are organised in order to reach a maximum of potential candidates even in times of COVID-19. There are many activities to realize the next steps of synergy with skeyes. In doing so, cooperation with Eurocontrol has been anchored only on a technical level, by the introduction of the SAS2 common air traffic control system. Outsourcing to Eurocontrol is therefore not the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. If it wasn't your birthday today, I would have asked you to finish a little faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u55	Mr President, it was a very important question, hence probably the comprehensive answer. Madam Minister, I must disappoint you, because I am not satisfied with that answer. You say that the premium is in the conceptual phase. It has been in the conceptual phase since 2019. Moreover, recruitment initiatives have so far proved insufficient to address the situation on the ground. The fact is that recruitment policy fails. The influx is very limited. The difference with the remuneration at skeyes is an important reason for this. Due to the low inflow, the bar is often lowered, which affects the quality of the inflow, which in turn has an impact on the outflow of the ATC-School. The success rate there is less than 40 %. Sometimes additional training is required, which costs a lot of money, and then the chances of success are minimal. This is a crucial pain point in the whole story, which needs to be addressed urgently. You will not explain at any time how you will combat the attrition and over-interview of the current generation of ATCs. That's a really big problem. There is not only the attraction, but also the fact that more and more middle-aged soldiers or 30s and 40s are dropping out. The pressure on the survivors is therefore too high and is not sustainable for long. The pool of ATCs still active in air traffic control is shrinking at an unseen pace, increasing the pressure. The creative solutions you cite are temporary, but bring little or no solace on the ground. I would also like to come back briefly to the HR implementation agreement between Defence and Skeyes, which looks promising but still has a bitter aftertaste, given that military ATCs can act as civilian personnel, but without any compensation, while on the other hand, Defense billing high amounts to skeyes. That's a skew, isn't it? For the Flemish interest, it is important for military air traffic control, and certainly for Belga Radar, to be clear and to put an end to the uncertainty, because the people in the services are at the end of their Latin and can no longer cope with that uncertainty. I therefore ask you to do something about this urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pillen's 55013883C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the Belgica already has a peter, the city of Ghent. Currently the Belgica is being extensively tested on the ferocious sea in the Bay of Biscay, I have seen, off the Spanish coast. What role will the Defense play with regard to the operation of the new Belgica in the area of crew, berth, maintenance, you name it? From when will the DOD take on those duties? The previous Belgica lies a bit sad along the quay in the base at Zeebrugge. What will happen to the ship?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u58	Defence undertook to provide support to the new Belgica during the construction of the ship, to write the specifications, to man and maintain it, to amend the shipping code with the notion of "magisterium" with a modified flag, to provide three officers to sail the ship and to offer a berth in the naval base of Zeebrugge. The creation of a new convention with the agreements between Defence and the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences of BELSPO and the date of entry into force will be further specified, with the target date being 31 July 2021. BELSPO owns the previous Belgica and explores the various possibilities to give the ship a new destination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u59	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her very full reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u60	Minister, as was recalled earlier, Leopold I left on a mission a few weeks ago. However, upon arrival, the 145 crew members found that, if cold water was available for consumption, food preparation and body hygiene, fresh water taps would not be released until the end of the first week. This means that for a week it was impossible to take a hot water shower on board. Minister, why was hot water not available during this period? Is there not a pre-departure control requirement for this kind of technical problem to occur? How will the Navy guarantee that this kind of problem will not be repeated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u61	Mr. Defossé, due to the covid-19 pandemic, the crew of Leopold I was isolated at home during the two weeks prior to its deployment. In addition, the vessel was closed, as provided for in the procedure. At the end of its isolation, the crew joined the vessel on 7 February in Den Helder to prepare for its next mission, which was scheduled to depart a week later. Just prior to the closure of the vessel, a sample of water was taken to control the absence of legionella, but it proved to be unusable. Since only the crew was allowed to board in order to avoid possible contamination, a new sample could only be taken when the vessel was reopened. Safety takes precedence over comfort. This is why hot water could not be used until it was analysed and approved by the health authorities - which took a few days. Temporary solutions had been developed as early as 10 February, to allow the crew to take a shower in the base's sports infrastructure and/or by installing showers on the wharf. The Navy systematically makes every effort to ensure that its ships are operational. The wharf week was used to prepare for the mission and to resolve any technical problems. Since then, the health authorities have validated the quality of hot water, which was restored shortly before the start of the frigate on 13 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. This morning, I thought that I could have turned this question into a written question, but it seemed to me to deserve a little exchange, since it addresses the quality of life of our military. In any case, I have understood well the living conditions due in particular to the crisis of the covid. I therefore hope that we will now be able to avoid such problems in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u63	Madam Secretary, questions are regularly asked about the F-35s or the frigates. Around the 12 new state-of-the-art mine hunters it is much quieter, but therefore the subject is no less interesting. We understand that Belgium Naval & Robotics is ready to reach a new milestone in the contract. From this month onwards, the programme would be transferred to Kership for the detailed elaboration and the preliminary draft. The first ship will be launched this summer. The programme, an international cooperation with the Netherlands, therefore seems to be progressing well. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update on the development programme of the new mine hunters? What is to be done in the coming months? In what order will the Belgian and Dutch ships be built? When will our Navy be able to receive her first ship? With regard to armaments and propulsion, the names of FN Herstal and Anglo Belgian Corporation (ABC) were already included as suppliers. What other companies of ours will be able to contribute to the programme? What is the exact economic return? What active and passive weapon systems were eventually chosen to protect the ships? We have already read in the media about surface and underwater drones that a French system would be purchased. How's that development going? When will the drones be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u64	In December 2020, the Preliminary Design Review was approved to record the technical documents. On this basis, the detailed studies are carried out. The next milestone is the start of the construction of the first, also Belgian, mine-fighting vessel in July 2021. The delivery of the first Belgian ship is scheduled for September 2024, after which the ships will be delivered to the Netherlands and Belgium in an alternating manner until 2030. Initially 39 Belgian partners were identified as potential subcontractors. The interviews between the contractor and the subcontractors have not yet been completed, so a final list is not yet available. The following weapons are present as self-defense on board: a 40-millimeter cannon, two 12.7-millimeter remote-controlled machine guns, four 7.62-millimeter manned machine guns. In addition, two water cannons and two Long Range Acoustic Devices are provided. The following unmanned systems will be provided: 15 Unmanned Surface Vehicles, 10 Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, 20 Medium Autonomous Underwater Vehicles, 15 Towed Synthetic Aperture Sonars, 14 Remotely Operating Vehicles, 42 Mine Identification and Disposable Systems, 2 complete mine sweepers, a USV Specification as well as a command and control container system. Most systems already exist and are adapted to meet the contractual requirements. The certification of the necessary prototypes will be completed by mid 2022 so that the construction, integration tests on board the ships and the delivery of the drones can be done in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer. There were some tongue-breaking weapon systems in there. Thanks for the degree of detail. I understand that the construction of the first ship will start in July 2021. That is an important milestone. Colleagues, it seems interesting to me to consider whether our presence there can be useful and inspiring depending on the corona conditions. I also understand that no final list of contractors has yet been drawn up. I don't know if that list can be made public either. I assume that this list will be there soon, in the course of spring. It would be good if we could take note of this in the Committee on Army Procurement and reflect on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u66	(...): Mr. Chairman, can we just have an idea of when the meeting would be closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u67	In consultation with the Minister, we will continue until 1 p.m. After that, the Minister is apparently expected in her cabinet for her birthday cake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u68	Madam Secretary, the 15th Wing Air Transport is in full transition. In addition to the first deliveries of the A400M, the white fleet also receives a rejuvenation cure. Over the past year, the old Embraer and Falcon machines were taken out of service to be replaced by two new Falcon7X Long Range Jets from Dassault. ===Abelag Aviation===Abelag Aviation signed a contract with Abelag Aviation on 7 January 2020. However, no one could have foreseen at that time that the fleet would remain largely unused due to the outbreak of the covid crisis. The continued economic downturn in the aviation sector following the pandemic encourages airlines such as Brussels Airlines to renegotiate their leasing contracts. Can you indicate how many flights have been operated with the Falcon 7X since their delivery in April 2020, compared to the deployment planned by the Defense Department in normal operations? Does the contract that Defense signed with Abelag provide for clauses covering such exceptional situations? If so, what consequences do they have? According to the example of the private airlines, such as Brussels Airlines but also a number of others, can Defence renegotiate its rental of the two aircraft at Abelag? If so, have any concrete steps been taken? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u69	The contract provided for a thousand hours flying in 2020 with the two aircraft. There were 1036 hours of flying. In 2021 it is planned to fly 1220 hours. On the date of 6 February 2021, the two aircraft have already flown 203 flight hours. The contract does not contain a specific clause allowing the number of flight hours to be adjusted. However, a contract may be amended in the event of unforeseen circumstances, as provided for in the Royal Decree on the implementing rules of public contracts. Given the number of hours flown, there is no reason to revise the terms of the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u70	I think the punishment is that this is completely flown up in corona times, where the border has also been closed for a long time. I will ask in writing who just flew to where. It's interesting to know those locations. In corona times, the government apparently still has a lot of flying. Everything's flown up. Well, then I wonder where. After all, a normal person can hardly fly. We'll check that out, and that might be a very interesting answer. Where would the King go everywhere in corona times, to set an example?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u71	You will not be surprised that I have two questions about the situation at the WHI. A great deal has already come to light in connection with the C-130 file and the Court of Auditors' report on the financial situation. My first question is, of course, about the situation in the WHI. How do you estimate it? Is there any improvement coming? I do hear that, among other things, the position of the Director-General remains very problematic. I do not think that cooperation with the Management Board is clear. The way in which the WHI is managed also raises many questions. On the other hand, I sent an e-mail to the committee chairman to organise a hearing with Mr Jaupart in Parliament, which would be very interesting, so that we could ask him about the cooperation with his board of directors and on other issues in which I am particularly interested. I am already intrigued by the possible answers from Mr Jaupart. Moreover, following some of his Facebook posts about my party, I would like to ask him if he thinks that anything should be possible for a top official. That's what I'd like to know. I understand there's been a complaint to UNIA. We'll see what comes out of it. Madam Minister, the position of Director-General of the WHI will have to be refilled. This is a rather essential choice, as the young institute for a series of great choices relates to regional implantation, the modernisation of museumology and the setting up of private-public collaborations for its major sites. When was the vacancy closed and when will the Minister present a decision? How many candidates have submitted? How many of those are still in the running? Why was the criteria for the vacancy still changed after final approval by the Board of Directors? Did that happen by the Defense Department or Selor? Why, for example, did the requirement of the Director-General "have a scientific experience by holding a diploma related to one of the tasks of the WHI" and that "knowledge of the second language of the country, Dutch or French, and of English is a plus, since the function is accompanied by the running of a team and the organisation and participation in meetings other than those in the mother tongue"? Is that because Mr Jaupart does not know Dutch? Maybe not English either? I don't know. Are these not essential requirements for you, Madam Minister, given that the Institute must carry out an important historical task in both parts of the country? Certainly in such a top position, I think that is appropriate. I'd still like to get some more explanation. There's a lot going on. You have great plans for the WHI. The museum in Brasschaat will close the doors and the collection will move to Ypres, which we discussed last week. Bastogne will certainly not deliver anything. What will happen to the Brussels site? There is a discussion going on with the city of Brussels about the heritage and the large hall. There are also a lot of tensions between the Executive Board and the Governing Board. You need to name the latter quickly now, because that is urgent. Will you appoint Mr Jaupart as director or not? That's what I'm wondering, and so are many others. When will the decision be taken? After all, I think the procedure is almost over. When will the government decide? Is this to be discussed in the nuclear cabinet, at the Council of Ministers, or can you decide for yourself? I thought I understood that this should be decided by consensus, also in consultation with the Flemish parties in the government. I am therefore curious about their vision, of course, when this appointment comes up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u72	Madam Minister, following last year's hearings in our committee during which Mr Jaupart came to explain the devastating report of the Court of Auditors on, among other things, the poor staff status, the malaise of the WHI, the lack of a well-thought-out policy, a multiannual budgetary plan and a clear vision of the future and the audit by Mensura, the committee members asked for the reports of the Board of Directors to be made available. It also showed that there was a malpractice. The Director-General ad interim, Mr Jaupart, does not at the moment have any control over the matter and, moreover, seems to be taking a very quirky path. We were able to make that very clear in the C-130 dossier and we also see it in many other areas. There are several tuxedo guns that indicate that no thoughtful policy is being pursued, both with regard to the collections for the museum and the vision of the future at museum level. An institute such as the WHI, which is responsible for the preservation of military heritage and, by extension, the memory of our past, and which has been given sufficient federal resources for this purpose, deserves, in the opinion of the Flemish Interest, an efficient administration, not the loose mix of which we have clearly seen in recent years. Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to hear your views on the continuing malaise in the functioning of the WHI, the persistent problems between management and management board and the lack of vision. What route is proposed to prevent this? What priorities are being set? At present, the permanent appointment of Director General Jaupart would be on the table. Do you think it would be appropriate to maintain such a candidate in his post, given the malpractice he has committed under his responsibility? Can you explain the full procedure to be followed if Director General Jaupart is not persevered in his duties? Certainly not unimportant, how do you respond to the fact that there is currently a complaint against ad interim director Jaupart, in which he is accused of racism which does not benefit his exemplary role and his integrity at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, the WHI, established in 2017, has been in existence for only three years, but is discussed remarkably often in this committee. That is both your and our agenda and it is regrettable for such a beautiful institution with such a fantastic collection. My questions are somewhat similar. Madam Secretary, what is your view of the situation? In what way will you, as a guardian minister, take action in this regard? Do you have an action plan? With regard to management, I think it is important that there is clarity and security for staff and for those involved. A management is needed to tackle the enormous challenges facing the institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, Mr Pillen, the relationship between the management and the management board of the WHI has not always been optimal in the past. Ever since I became Minister of Defense, I have attached great importance to the proper functioning of the WHI. As I wrote in my policy paper, the existing links between the Executive Board and the Management Board of the WHI on the one hand, and Defence on the other hand, will be confirmed in a cooperation agreement, as is also provided for in the management contract. As regards the comments on the current Director-General ad interim, Mr Jaupart, I would like to point out that the management of the WHI has been placed under the authority and control of the Management Board under the terms of the Act of 28 April 2017 establishing the WHI. As from 21 February 2019, as soon as the WHI Board was informed, it asked for action to be taken and to draw up a concrete action plan in response to the Mensura report. The action plan was drawn up. On 25 September 2019, the WHI Board also proposed to apply for a new Mensura survey in the second half of 2020. However, the new survey has not yet taken place due to the sanitary measures taken in connection with the covid crisis. I intend to ask for the review as soon as the sanitary measures allow. As regards the audit of the Court of Auditors, the Executive Board of the WHI has already taken the necessary measures, in consultation with the Management Board and the Defence Board, to respond to the recommendations. The planned renewal of the composition of the Management Board is also an opportunity for optimization. The placement of a new Head of Service Human Resources and a new Head of Service Budget and Finance will certainly contribute to the renewed dynamism within the organisation. Following the WHI's screening by the Court of Auditors and in order to deal with the problems raised, a strategic committee was set up. Among other things, the Chairman of the Administrative Board, the current Director-General ad interim, my Government Commissioner and the Government Commissioner of the Secretary of State for the Budget are members of that Committee. The Committee shall accompany the WHI in drawing up a strategic plan for the next five years and its implementation. The cooperation between members takes place in a constructive atmosphere. The file for filling in the position of Director-General of the WHI is ongoing, in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006 on the designation and exercise of management and staff functions in certain public utility institutions. The vacancy was closed on 23 October 2019. The job requirements and requirements regarding the professional experience of the vacancy, approved by the WHI Board in March 2018, were shortened at the request of Selor, which she considered to be too restrictive. Selor was asked to start the selection process in August 2018 based on the reworked job description. That question has never been answered. A second question for start-up was delivered on 25 April 2019. At the same time, a royal decision to establish the number of mandates within the WHI submitted by the Council of Ministers decided to proceed with the mandates on the basis of the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006 applicable to the administrative public institutions and not on the basis of the more restrictive Royal Decree of 2008 applicable to the scientific institutions. As a result, the diploma and language requirements lapsed. The adapted job description was re-submitted to the Management Board and approved by it in November 2019. Ten Dutch-speaking and ten French-speaking candidates were presented, nine Dutch-speaking and five French-speaking candidates were found to comply with the rules after screening. In the end, two laureates were selected by Selor after the evaluations. The current Director-General ad interim is one of the candidates declared suitable after the evaluation by Selor, which makes his appointment as Director-General possible. In accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006, I immediately organised a meeting with the two candidates. On the basis of these discussions, I have chosen to propose Mr Jaupart to the Council of Ministers as the future Director-General of the WHI. It is not for me to comment on the accusations made against Mr Jaupart. I would remind you that the lodging of a complaint does not yet constitute a conviction and that the presumption of innocence is a general principle of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u75	Madam Secretary, you say you're working on an improvement path. There's a working group you're part of, and it's been getting better ever since. The renewal of the Management Board is an opportunity. At the same time, however, you say that you want to retain Mr Jaupart in this position. I find this regrettable, because I believe that it has been sufficiently proven that Mr Jaupart is not fit for the job. He cannot lead the WHI in a good way, otherwise what has happened in recent years and months would not have happened. I find it particularly regrettable that you are now reciting him. The appointment has not yet been completed, you have proposed it, but I assume that there is still a need for consultation within the government, or at least at its core. I therefore call on the Flemish colleagues to look at this in depth. I do not think it would be wise to let someone with such views about Flemings lead the WHI. One cannot ignore the fact that he has already made a whole chunk course. It would therefore be much more sensible to organise a new round through Selor, to reach more candidates. I don't know who the second candidate is, but he could also be an option. In the past it has happened many times that people were not satisfied with the limited number of successful candidates and therefore launched a call again. However, that is not happening now. One chooses someone who has actually proven not to be capable of running the WHI at all. Besides, it's not just what he thinks of me and my political ideology. If only half of all the messages that reach me from the site were true, it is obvious that such a person will not be able to lead the WHI in a good way in the coming years. I find it particularly regrettable that you do not opt for renewal and change, but for the old one, which has apparently proved to be ineffective on several occasions. I am very sorry about that and I would really like to ask you to reconsider this, together with the colleagues from the Flemish parties CD&V and Open Vld, and to check whether a new appointment, a new round, is not better to filter out better candidates and really choose to renew the WHI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The fact that the operation of the WHI was not always optimal can count as an understatement. We must dare to call a cat a cat: Director-General ad interim Jaupart has been Director-General for three years and must have had ample opportunity and time to adjust at least this, or to make improvements in a number of areas. That didn't happen at all. You say he works under the authority of the board of directors. I would like to, but if we read the reports of the board and we see the decisions taken by the board, often unilaterally, then that authority or cooperation is not at all efficient. The destructive report of the Court of Auditors was just a symbol of what went wrong. The file of the C-130 was also such a symbol file. One cannot keep ignoring that. There are numerous tuxedo guns: the C-130, the personnel policy, the management of the sites. This can also be said about the management of the site in the Cinquantenaire Park. There is no consultation with the Management Board and there is maladministration of collection documents. The lack of public security on the site of the Cinquantenaire Park cannot be ignored. I am thinking, for example, of the purchase policy of exhibits. There is also the story of the appointment of the Director-General, which is closely linked. We find documents that are at odds with each other and the decision was changed and course the route. There has been no feedback on the final outcome with the board of directors, at least according to Selor's report that we have read. The board of directors and the board of directors, these are two separate stories, and I regret that. Once again, I would like to ask you to carry out a thorough review of the WHI throughout the story, not just with a working group. We may be able to carry out a thorough review of the operation in this committee, and at the very least we can postpone the appointment of the Director-General until there is an insight into the story surrounding the complaint that has been made and the vision that Mr Jaupart uses with regard to Flemings in general. Those facts are well known. We do not have to wait for Unia's ruling. Anyone can read about that. I find these facts reprehensible. That alone should be an argument for you, which nevertheless puts equality first, to postpone the appointment of the Director-General until further notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u77	Madam Secretary, I almost entirely agree with Mrs Ponthier in her reply. We will have to continue to pay attention to it. I think we're focusing too much on that Director General. We need to look at the whole picture and see what actually happened. The WHI is constantly being discussed here, its operation is problematic. The WHI only exists for four years. What went wrong in 2017 when Minister Vandeput founded it? It is clear that there is a bad start. You say that, in August 2018, Minister Vandeput's cabinet apparently failed to find a solution to the selection criteria. What exactly happened there? What went wrong between the then custody minister and Selor? Mr Francken, you mentioned my party and you said that we should be responsible. The chairman of the WHI Board of Directors is the district mayor for your party in Ekeren, a neighbour of the Flemish Prime Minister and of the site WHI Gunfire. If we are constantly talking about the WHI and about the mistakes that have been made in recent years, we need to look at the whole picture and we, or the Court of Auditors, have to look at what happened between April 2017 and March 2021 with that WHI, with those collections, with that strategy, with those visions, with that management. Above all, we must not make the mistake of focusing on the one point of the Director-General and forgetting everything else. I am not saying that you have done so, Mr President, but I do not think that we should restrict ourselves to doing so. Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you for your full reply, which shows compassion for the operation of the WHI. I think you made the right choice with the strategic cell and with a smooth appointment of a new HR and B&B manager. Those are the right steps to take in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u78	I give the floor very briefly to Mr Francken because his name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u79	Mr President, I would like to make a brief personal statement. Mr Pillen, what your party will do is appoint Mr Jaupart. We wouldn't do that, after the chunk track that man drove. It is unthinkable that we should support his appointment. You do. That's on you. You say that other things must also be looked at. I don't have a problem with that. What's up now is the appointment. The Minister says here for the first time that it is new information that she will recommend Michel Jaupart to the Council of Ministers to be appointed, despite the chunk course. That's like the C-130 course. Then Tim Vandenput also spoke big words and did not agree at all that the C-130 would move to Beauvechain. After that, we haven't heard from him. That's what we're hearing here again. You agree with Mrs Ponthier, but you will swallow up in the government and fall down, as in the case of the C-130 dossier. I don't doubt that. That's how we know Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u80	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly because my name was mentioned. What everyone is trying to avoid, Mr Pillen, you are doing now. The intention is just not to make a political story out of this. The aim is to make the WHI an important institution and to ensure that it does not repeat itself. The Director-General of the ad interim is not wrongly mentioned here, when we see what course he has taken in recent years and that, with the confidence of the government partners, he will continue in the coming years. I do not feel called upon to support that, but that is just the essence of the story. Who is responsible for the policy? That's the person in charge of the institute, isn't it? That's what I wanted to say. The general objective must be put first here. You just destroyed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u81	I will give you the floor briefly, Mr Pillen. I'd advise you not to call anyone by name, otherwise we'll start a new round.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u82	Mr President, I was in the naive assumption that the previous speaker would be an ally. I really think I just set out the general interest. We just need to determine which direction that institution is heading. That must be the view of our committee. We shouldn't be focusing on the people in this puppet game here. To the second last speaker, we absolutely have to keep in mind what the WHI has done during the last four years. We need to see what's gone wrong over the past four years. Above all, we need to look at the general picture and not just focus on the DG. If it is decided not to take that person into account and put a new person there, then the problems of the WHI will not be solved. No one in this room would believe that the problems would be solved. Perhaps part of it, you say, may be, but not all the problems would have been solved. The problems are too great. Either we look at the whole picture or we stop this discussion, otherwise I think it is only the political politician you want to participate in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, although the rate of women in the army has reached a record high, the employment figures for women in the army are unfortunately still unsatisfactory. A woman Minister of Defense, a princess at the Royal Military School and a greater integration of women into the Job Days and Scholarships, as well as the future improvement of the attractiveness of the Defence are incentives for a female engagement. It is my responsibility, however, that women are more likely to end their defence careers more quickly. Greater loyalty and support should therefore also be included in the priorities on this subject. Minister, do you intend to take any further initiatives to further increase this attractiveness and sustain these careers of women in Defence? Can you tell me how many women have left the army during their careers in recent years? Do you also have the main reasons for these premature arrests? Have we been there yet? Is it possible to conclude that women stop at the Defense more often than men?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u84	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, in order to attract a sufficient number of young women and men, Defence will examine how regional employment agencies can provide new opportunities. In addition, an additional recruitment channel will be used over the next four years through consultants from SD Worx recruitment offices. In the last five years, 30 women left Defence in 2016, 38 women in 2017, 45 women in 2018, 43 women in 2019 and 22 women in 2020. The proportion of women who have left Defence has remained between 6.4 and 8.5 per cent over the past five years, which corresponds to little of the proportion of men. It can therefore be concluded that women do not stop more or less frequently than men their career in defence. For both female and male members who have indicated their reason for leaving, a majority justifies their decision to leave the Defence for personal or professional reasons, justifying having found the opportunity to pursue another occupation that is better paid or closer to home. The POP plan, "People Our Priority", aims to remedy the first point. As far as the second point is concerned, this is a better geographical distribution of the Defence and, in some cases, new forms of work or new distributions of units within existing neighbourhoods. As stated in the policy note, initiatives in this area will be taken during this mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u85	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The figures you cited are interesting. I take it from your answer that the situation is not as alarming as some of the information that has been brought to my attention did not suggest. I cannot but encourage you, Minister, to continue the stimulation efforts to attract young women to Defence. I read again this morning that recruitment is going well, which I can only rejoice at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u86	Mr. President, I just wanted to apologize to Mrs. Song. Did she ever warn you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u87	Yes, she had announced it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u88	It's perfect. In any case, she will read the Minister's answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic412x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we conclude the sitting. Madam Secretary, I wish you a happy anniversary. We'll see each other next week.
