ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u1	Madam Minister, as you know, I intervene very regularly to support the police, all too often caught up in unjustified and unjustifiable violence. Unfortunately, as in any human group, there are those who, by their behavior, spoil the image of the body to which they belong. This is precisely the case of these two police officers who, in 2018, filmed themselves, uttering many racist and homophobic insults that it is unnecessary to repeat here. The chief of corps of the period of the police of the Midi zone had suspended the officers concerned and withheld 25 per cent of their gross salary for a period of one month. The final sanction was subsequently determined: salary demotion and heavy disciplinary punishment. As a result of this decision, one of the police continued her career in another position within the police, while the other decided to file an appeal against the sanction. Due to a delay in disciplinary proceedings, the Council of State allowed the police officer to recover her salary. The new Chief of Staff confirms this: it is too often the case that sanctioned police officers are left with impunity for delays. He therefore pleaded that the officers who had demonstrated unquestionable professional misconduct could be dismissed immediately. Another fact in this case is that the police officer who denounced these acts by handing over the video to his superiors was himself accused of racism by the two police officers concerned. A judicial procedure had been initiated against him and a search had been carried out at his home. Under pressure and despite the support of most of his colleagues, he anticipated retirement after more than 38 years of police service. Minister, this case seems unbearable to me. How can we accept that women officers who have committed such a serious act can, at present, still be members of the police? Can you take stock of this case? How do you react to it? Do you confirm that the police officers in question are still on duty? On the merits, do you confirm that the required deadlines are often a source of impunity for officials who have committed serious misconduct? How do you react to the Chief of Corps' request to review the rules in this regard? What levers do you have to prevent this kind of situation from happening again in the future? As for the police officer who denounced the facts, what do you know about the proceedings against him? What means are used to protect police officers who report wrongdoing by their colleagues from all pressure? Minister, I am with you when you advocate zero tolerance for those guilty of violence against our police. But this same zero tolerance must apply to agents when they commit such harmful acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in 2018, two police women, on patrol in Anderlecht, used harsh language. Following a video fragment of the facts, the then chief of police decided to suspend an agent and hold off 25% of her gross wage for one month. Later, after a verdict by the Disciplinary Board, she was placed back in the betting scale. This she fought with the Council of State who agreed with her because the deadline had been exceeded by three days. The deadlines for issuing disciplinary measures are often very short. I will not go into all the provisions in this respect. You mentioned in this context the planned reform of disciplinary legislation. I therefore have a number of very specific questions on this subject. How often does this problem arise, in other words, how often does the Council of State destroy disciplinary decisions for police forces? Do you have any figures on this for the past five years? Can you also indicate in this same overview when those decisions were specifically destroyed because of a time limit that was exceeded? What will the announced changes to the Disciplinary Act mean? Will the deadlines also be evaluated and amended? If deadlines are exceeded, what are the most common reasons for this overrun? Do the police have an internal analysis of this? If so, what are its conclusions and will they be taken into account in the planned adjustment of the disciplinary procedure? That question is important because we know that another very important dossier will soon have to be dealt with, namely the Chovanec dossier. There is also a fear in that file that deadlines would be exceeded. It is of the utmost importance that we can avoid this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u3	Madam Minister, we were all struck by this video showing a patrol of the Midi zone, composed of two police officers who utter racist insults, which is deeply shocking. Such behaviour leads me to the problem of racism within the police. The Commissioner-General declared on 14 January that there was no structural racism in the Belgian police force. Your predecessor said nothing else. He said before the commission: "The reports of Committee P do not reveal any structural problems of racism to the police. There were only 45 complaints in 2017 and only 58 in 2018, while the police have a total of 5,000 officers. The vast majority of these complaints were dismissed because they were found to be unfounded." However, a series of facts that sparkle the news in recent years sometimes give the impression of contradicting such words. I am thinking of the sad and famous Nazi greeting of the police officer in the Chovanec file, of the convictions for racist violence by police officers in Antwerp, the Midi zone, the railway police, the Facebook group of police officers "Thin Blue Line Belgium" inciting racism, etc. Moreover, according to Unia, despite the continuing acts of racism in the police force, they rarely lead to complaints and prosecutions. The number of complaints is therefore not a significant factor. Minister, do you think there is a structural racism in the police or do you think these are isolated cases? The amendment of the disciplinary procedure is a step, but it is not enough. Unia filed a series of recommendations in September 2020 for an exemplary policy. How do you intend to implement them? Last year's investigative report on police harassment pointed to the stressful and dangerous nature of the police job, but also under-infusion and chronic under-staffing, which would exacerbate the unease within the services. You've committed to recruiting 1,600 police officers a year. What's your status? Investing in training is essential. HPDH (Holocaust, Police and Human Rights) training at the Dossin barracks is a good initiative, but not enough. How do you intend to improve training?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u4	Minister, what we have been given to see and hear is particularly shocking. It is necessary to recall here what these insults are: "macaques", "tapettes" - you will forgive me the expression. These are openly racist and homophobic insults, pronounced by two police officers filming themselves against a background of music, as if it were only a game and that these words had no meaning; two police officers wearing the uniform; two police officers who were sworn to obey the Constitution and the laws of the Belgian people. This Constitution and these laws have principles and values, including respect for human dignity, the prohibition of spreading hateful ideas - be they racist, homophobic, sexist; unfortunately, the list is long! Not only do these ideas dishonor the uniform they wear, but they also show how much the mission assigned to them, to ensure the safety of everyone, is certainly not guaranteed when they show this state of mind. Unfortunately, this is not the first time, Madam Minister, that we have to see this. The Chovanec case reminded us, with this explicit Nazi greeting. Madam Minister, we really need to look at this problem for what it is: a problem of extreme gravity. You tell us, with your services, whether it is endemic and structural within the police. It is up to you to tell us what you intend to do to avoid impunity. It's up to you to tell us what you intend to do with these agents, too. It's up to you to tell us how you're going to equip the training of police officers with tools that can prevent and prevent such behaviour. What is at stake here is the risk of amalgam - and the idea is false, of course - that all police officers would proceed from this state of mind. Nothing would be more false, we know. In order to strengthen the idea that the police should carry out their duties in general, in accordance with democratic law, measures would have to be taken. Therefore, Madam Minister, my question is very simple: what steps do you intend to take to ensure that these behaviours cannot be repeated in the police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u5	Madam Minister, as my colleagues have already contextualized the facts, I will come directly to my questions. Like some of my colleagues, I wonder about different aspects of this sad story. What measures do you intend to take and how do you intend to act so that these problems, of which we have heard a lot in recent months, do not happen again? Do you intend to consult with the various police areas in the country to establish a specific framework in this regard? Is a reform of the existing procedure possible or envisaged on your part? In the event of serious misconduct, as is the case in this case, it must be possible to remove a police officer directly from his or her duties. This was the case with the head of the corps concerned, but unfortunately this effect was only too short. How can a police officer be laid off immediately during such incidents and during the duration of an investigation, until he or she is removed from office? In the last few weeks, I've supported you when you were talking about zero tolerance. However, as I said during our last exchange, this tolerance goes in both directions. I note that this has not been the case in this case. This sense of impunity exacerbates tensions, already too present in recent weeks. How are you going to put an end to this feeling among the citizen, who always feels that the police are never punished for such serious mistakes, while the citizen lambda will be punished? Acts of racism must be punished. I would like to know whether, as some of my colleagues have mentioned, you consider this to be a structural problem within our police force. Finally, what is your opinion on a possible reform of the training of our police officers in the academies, in order to stem this form of violence, which is far too present and which is all too often discussed in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u6	Minister, this summer, your predecessor said that there was no structural racism in our police services, and I continue to agree with him. However, the facts are unfortunately stubborn. It must be noted that, since his statements, we have witnessed forms of racism and intolerance which, as you yourself said on 14 October, do not belong in our police services. There was the Nazi greeting of the Chovanec case, there was the Facebook group "Thin Blue Line" and finally this video showing two police officers in Brussels openly speaking racist and homophobic statements. It is time to admit that there is indeed a problem and that it is linked to true intolerance and not simply to a form of lightness or idleness. These cases reveal a deeper problem that cannot be solved simply by recalling – as was done for the Thin Blue Line case – the rules for the use of social media for police officers. On 20 January, Madam Minister, you stated that the tenth edition of the Security Monitor was in preparation. Do you intend to include an assessment of the population's perception of racism or other forms of intolerance in the police service? How is your firm involved in the development of the inter-federal action plan against racism, intolerance and all forms of discrimination under the Government Agreement? Do you already have a calendar? Will racism within our police services be given special attention? The government agreement provides for the establishment of a "diversity" route to make the composition of the integrated police more representative of society. What initiatives have you already taken or are you planning to take to achieve this objective? The government agreement also provides that diversity will be taken more into account in the training of police officers. In what way? The policeman who rightly denounced the inappropriate behaviour of the two police officers who had made racist and homophobic statements was now forced to take early retirement. Accused of racism by the two police officers whom he had denounced, the police officer was investigated during which searches were carried out at his private home and office and several of his property was seized. Such events seem to have shaken him deeply, which justified 38 years of exemplary career. The pressure of the investigation and several of his peers simply pushed him out. Today, the police officer in question is still being prosecuted for racism. At the area police station, many of his colleagues deplored the fact that the actions of two police officers had been able to destroy his career. Minister, do you think that the police officer who reported wrongdoing was unfairly pushed out? Are there any protections to protect police officers that could be described as whistleblowers? If not, do you consider taking measures to protect police officers who report misconduct and peer pressure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u7	Madam Minister, I am not going to give the introduction, because it has already been clearly outlined by my colleagues. Do you have any idea why the sanction is too late? Did you get any information on this from the mayor? What exactly happened there? What's gonna happen to the police officer in question? What service is she currently in? In the press, you have said that the timing of the change to the disciplinary law may now have to be brought forward a little. Do you have a concrete view of this? When can we expect the timing? It is not the first time that we have been confronted with racist or offensive statements by policemen, both towards the population and among colleagues. There's still a lot of nerve in the police to report that sort of thing. Do you foresee in specific directives within the integrated police on how to deal with these kinds of incidents? Respect must come from both sides, and this seems to me to be the only way out of the impasse. If we ask for respect for the police, then it is also necessary for people to be worthy of office and to behave with dignity. I therefore believe that it is a double-sided matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u8	Minister, the video that we are discussing today is to say the least shocking. Shockful, because this video shows two police officers who, on festive music, the window open, in a cool atmosphere, utter racist and homophobic insults towards passers-by. First of all, I want to express my indignation on behalf of these insulted people and this is not the first time: the Chovanek case, the WhatsApp groups, the Facebook groups remind us that this is not an isolated fact. It repeats itself quite often and I wanted to speak on behalf of those people who suffer these abuses frequently. But I also wanted to speak on behalf of the police officers who try every day to do their job well, to maintain the integrity of the police force and who are tainted by this kind of unworthy behaviour of our police forces. Minister, this kind of speech is unacceptable in a society that claims to be democratic. This cannot be tolerated. As for the follow-up to these facts, how is it that in criminal proceedings, where a complaint was lodged, the King's prosecutor closed the case without further action? While the facts are so obvious, so serious, he felt that the case should be closed without further action! How do you explain that? On the other hand, a Commissioner who has denounced these facts, courageously, has seen his career ruined, while the two police officers are still in the post and still exercise their profession. It's the world upside down! Moreover, it was the Commissioner who denounced those acts that had been accused of racism and his career had been ruined. How do you explain that? Is there more room for racist speech in the police than for those who denounce it? That too, Madam Minister, is unacceptable! The disciplinary penalty consisted of a reduction in wages. You and the colleagues will agree that this sanction is very weak for this kind of fact. But even this measure was rejected by the Council of State on the grounds of procedural failure. How is it that this procedure has not been followed in due course? This phenomenon is very often observed: for procedural problems, abuses remain unpunished within the police. Minister, how is it possible that these deadlines have been exceeded? Why are these police officers still on duty and have they not been dismissed? Are you going to talk to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Minister of Justice about the standings without further action? It's something I can't explain. I'd like you to light up the matter. Minister, in September, we heard about a secure line for police officers to report behaviour that undermines the integrity of the police. This line still doesn't exist. What is your position on the implementation of this green line? Shouldn't such a tool be put in place to, for example, prevent what happened to the Commissioner who tried to denounce these facts? What happened with this Commissioner? What is the continuation of his career? Have you questioned the competent disciplinary authorities as permitted by law? A lot of questions, minister. We expect a lot of answers from you. One thing is certain: in our society, such facts cannot go unpunished. This story must not end here. And above all, these two police officers are unworthy of wearing the uniform of the police. There, we need a political response. I expect you to have a fairly firm answer on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u9	Mr Boukili, try to respect the time limit! You had two minutes to ask your question. You talked about five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I really would not like to be in the place of the minister's office or services when such diverse but still related questions are asked on such a subject. However, I would like to point out that I have introduced a question No 55013591C entitled "Racist remarks in the head of the police". I have been informed that it should not be included in this debate. But in fact, when I listen to my colleagues, I realize that this is really a question that concerns, not specifically the subject of the two police officers in question, but the subject of racism. I don't know if the minister wants to answer only on the case of the two police officers. Otherwise, I would ask to join my question, as I asked the services this morning, because it really concerns racism within the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give an integrated answer to your respective questions. Like any citizen, and not uncommonly, police officers have the opportunity to appeal and appeal judicial and disciplinary decisions. Within the framework of the disciplinary law, there is the possibility of submitting a request for reconsideration to the Disciplinary Board and even an appeal to the Council of State. The procedure provided for in the Disciplinary Act of 13 May 1999 is complex, cumbersome, and provides for strict deadlines, which result in nullity in the event of an overrun. The disciplinary authorities designated by law differ according to the rank of the police officers and the penalty envisaged. Take the example of heavy punishment. After notification of a proposal for a heavy sanction by the higher disciplinary authority, the staff member concerned has 30 days to establish his defence and even to request additional exculpatory investigations. The disciplinary authority then has 15 days to decide and notify it of the proposed heavy penalty. The staff member then has 10 days to submit a request for reconsideration to the Disciplinary Board, which shall deliver its opinion at the end of its investigation. As a result, the disciplinary authority has 30 days to notify its final decision when it aligns itself with the advice of the Disciplinary Board. If the disciplinary authority does not follow the latter's opinion, it has a reasonable time to notify the staff member who in turn has 10 days to submit a final submission. The disciplinary authority then has 30 days to notify the person concerned of the final decision. At that point, the sentence is final. A staff member may, however, submit an application for annulment to the Council of State. In the case of such a serious disciplinary sanction, Article 24 of the Disciplinary Law provides that in certain cases the opinion of the King's Attorney must be sought. This shall be done after 30 days before the submission of the defence and the service of the proposal for serious disciplinary action. The period of 15 days shall be extended by 20 days to a maximum of 35 days. The article provides that this opinion should be sought if the facts relate directly to the performance of a task of judicial police. The COL of the Attorney General states that in practice it is difficult to distinguish between judicial and non-judicial tasks, so that, if in doubt, that advice should be sought, in so far as such an application is not a cause for disguised delay. The facts in question date back to October 2018. The competent disciplinary authority shall be the police council of the area concerned. So I can't rule on the merits. It is not up to me to decide on individual cases. But in view of the published images, it is clear that the facts are unacceptable, all the more so for the Minister of the Interior as I am. As I said earlier in my policy brief, integrity remains the basis of the work of the professional police. With 48,000 police personnel, racist incidents could never be avoided. As is the case in society, there are racist reactions within the police. However, – and I want to be very clear about this – every racist incident is too much of an incident and degrades the image of the police. As you said, Mr. Laaouej, this kind of fact is unacceptable. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this type of incident is avoided at all costs in order, in particular, to ensure the image of all the others who do not show a racist ideology. In collaboration with the police leaders, I will continue to fight firmly against racism in the police and I plead with you, Mr De Maegd, for zero tolerance of any manifestations of racism in the police. The new head of corps of the Brussels-Midi area is a supporter of this struggle. I planned a visit to the area on February 24th. At the legal level, a reform of the disciplinary law is planned in order to ensure a smoother handling of cases. This reform may help to limit the risk of overturning decisions. Consideration of the issue of time limits is one of the issues considered in this context. However, everyone knows that any reform of this kind must also respect the principles inherent in our rule of law, such as respect for the rights of defence, and can never guarantee that no decision can be overturned. Mrs Ingels, as you know, a proposal to amend and modernise the disciplinary law was introduced by then Minister Jambon. The police unions were involved very late in the process and therefore left the negotiating table. I understood that a continuation of these negotiations during the current period was not on the agenda. The revision of the Disciplinary Act is part of the wider debate on the attractiveness of the police as an employer. In addition to the rights of the staff member, duties will also be addressed. In this context, the disciplinary law will also be discussed. The talks about this with the police unions will begin in the near future. Mr Van Hecke, the information requested is not available in the summary form to which you refer. This requires a manual search, including in the databases of the judgments of the Council of State, which was impossible to do within the measured time frame. As far as you wish, you can, of course, submit a written question to that effect. As a general rule, I can state that the time limits for the disciplinary judge are imposed by the obligation on the public authorities to clarify as quickly as possible the legal status of a staff member who is subject to a possible disciplinary procedure. Nevertheless, I note in this dossier that a final ruling was only possible after more than two years. The most common reasons for exceeding the time limits include an incorrect assessment of the start of the period, the time needed to reach and have the disciplinary authorities sign and the availability of the file manager. These difficulties will also be examined in the context of the proposed adjustment of the disciplinary procedure. We all know, however, that this information is not new and applies not only to disciplinary proceedings, but also to other procedures, which are very strictly assessed by the Council of State. This also applies, for example, where an application for authorisation submitted has to be assessed and certain deadlines are likely to expire. Even in the case of disciplinary law and even when it comes to such serious matters, this cannot be taken into account in a balance of interests and will only be aimed at exceeding the time limit. We can regret this, and I think that we should certainly look at it in the context of the review of disciplinary procedures and the disciplinary law, but that is the approach we are familiar with in the Council of State. Mrs Matz, Unia's recommendations were welcomed with interest by the organisation, which is developing projects to respond to them. Profiling based solely on ethnic origin is not in accordance with the rules. It is therefore essential to continue training our police officers in professional profiling to use objective parameters within a specific regulatory framework. Actions within the training will be planned to further raise awareness among field staff. In addition, the Federal Police maintains dialogue and collaboration with Unia and NGOs that have made recommendations, in particular with regard to professional police profiling. The integrated police force is a key partner in the drafting and implementation of the inter-ministerial plan to combat racism. I confirm your commitment to recruit 1,600 police officers a year. In this respect, I can already tell you that to date, the potential for entry into inspectorate training is 502 people. I would like to point out that the fight against racism and discrimination has a significant place in the basic training of police officers, which must, in particular, help them identify the elements constituting infringements of anti-racism and anti-discrimination laws. This is a cross-cutting objective of training. With regard to the police officers already in office, the ongoing Holocaust, police and human rights training that you mentioned finds its place alongside other initiatives aimed at combating racism and discrimination in general. The team working behind the Holocaust, Police and Human Rights project is adapting the training module to meet the needs of field staff. A constant evaluation makes it possible to see what works and what needs to be improved. A second module exists for managers and focuses on integrity. Finally, Holocaust, police and human rights are now reinforced by the "polarization" training, which offers solid tools for dialogue within an increasingly polarized society. I also remind you that I signed a new cooperation agreement last December between the integrated police and the Dossin barracks. This represents an added value for both organizations. Unia also accompanies us in the training of police officers for the recording and detection of hate crimes. Anti-racism and anti-discrimination laws are also recalled. The role of the reference police officer is then to raise the awareness of the members of his department. Mr Laaouej, the Code of Ethics of the Police Service makes it clear that racism and discriminatory behaviour or remarks do not belong to it. I ask the hierarchy to always take the necessary disciplinary measures against racist acts committed by members of the integrated police force and, of course, to respect the procedural deadlines. All recommendations made by Committee P are submitted to the police officers and then to the competent authorities or persons responsible for the integrity of the control and/or internal audit for periodic follow-up. At the federal police level, regular bilateral meetings are held between the Commissioner General and the Chair of Committee P on this subject. The training of trusted persons is no longer provided by the Federal Police for the local police. There is therefore no sharing of practices during intervisions in the existing network of trusted people. We are not aware of any intervision network within the local police areas. Collègue De Smet, the tenth edition of the Security Monitor will, among other things, aim to assess the citizen's satisfaction with the police services. The first results are expected in the first quarter of 2022. Other objectives include assessing the black figure and the victimization of the citizen in relation to certain criminal phenomena, and assessing citizens' feelings of insecurity. This assessment of citizen satisfaction is included in my policy note. It will concern the proximity of the police services, the attitude and behaviour of the police towards the population, the treatment of every citizen on an equal footing or the role of example. The police must be a reflection of the population they serve. Recruitment campaigns are therefore aimed at everyone regardless of the colour of the skin, origin, sex, sexual orientation, etc. This has been taken into account in posters and other recruitment tools in order to reach a diverse audience. In addition, the new selection procedure will play an important role in this context. Diversity is an important aspect of this reform. Only information relevant to the function profile is retained. Applications are standardized and identical for all candidates. The correction of the written tests is carried out anonymously and the feedback of each examination is available to the candidates. The issue of diversity is addressed in the fight against all forms of discrimination in basic training for inspectors and commissioners. The Federal Training Plan 2020-2021 addresses diversity and non-discrimination as a priority. This plan communicates to all police schools the subjects and areas to be given special attention in the development of their training courses. This kind of behaviour and action is totally unacceptable and, as Mr Boukili said, it is damaging to the many policemen who work daily without discrimination for the safety of so many people. It is our absolute duty to continue to work on this. We act disciplinaryly, but that is not always my competence, so we are there in consultation with the integrated police, and we attach increasing importance to this during the lifelong training of the police officers and inspectors we train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u12	Madam Minister, you will always find me at your side to plead but above all to enforce zero tolerance for those who violently target law enforcement or public goods. I would remind you that an MR bill has been tabled to that effect. A rule of law worthy of that name must provide concrete protection for those who are responsible, on the ground, for enforcing the law. On the other hand, the law applies to all, including police officers who, as representatives of the authority, must not only be supported, but also be blameless. I say it often, only respect generates respect. In my view, therefore, it is necessary to help the heads of bodies to effectively punish those who, within the police, abuse the uniform and their dominant position, but also to protect whistleblowers within the police. You have referred at length to the very detailed procedure which exceeds 125 days before notification of a sanction. It is obviously far too heavy and too strong. There is a need for legislation in this area. Unfortunately, the case of these two police officers is not an isolated case. Last weekend, following a demonstration in Brussels, young people arrested administratively, according to consistent accounts, were victims of unjustified and disproportionate violence in the Etterbeek barracks. I would also like to raise a specific question on this subject. An investigation should take place since, to the best of my knowledge, a dozen complaints have been filed. Again, the abuse of a few seriously undermines the overall image of the police and breaks the necessary bond of trust that must exist between the police and the population. Madam Minister, I said that in a rule of law, police officers must be protected from untimely violence, but in the same rule of law, the police are there to protect and reassure the population against all forms of crime. If by the abusive action of a few, the police generate fear in the citizen, it means that a slow drift is taking place. I would point out loudly that Belgium is neither a police state nor a dictatorship. Every person who wears the uniform and who has been sworn must remember it at every moment of his or her action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am very pleased with the number of questions and the broad consensus across the borders of almost all parties. They make it clear that this is unacceptable and must stop. In the coalition agreement we made very clear agreements, violence against the police cannot happen, but we have just made it clear that we expect policemen to behave correctly in all circumstances. There will be questions later on about the famous demonstration that took place a dozen days ago. The testimonies we have heard about this indicate that something is not right. It may not be easy to solve this, because the problem is a mutual distrust between a group of people, especially young people, and some of the policemen. We must not generalize it at all, but we will have to work on that mistrust. If we can't restore confidence, then these incidents will happen again and again. Madam Secretary, we are faced with a long-term work and you will find a partner in us for that. Ethnic profiling is a problem and we have worked out a comprehensive legislative proposal to launch the debate. We hope that we will have broad support for this in Parliament. Madam Minister, I understand that the figures cannot be given immediately, and that is not a problem; I will put a written question to that effect. Finally, I come to the disciplinary procedure. You briefly mentioned the possible reasons for exceeding the deadline. I believe that two things must be done: firstly, the procedure must be made absolutely simpler and, secondly, we must ensure that those who need to organise discipline are properly trained. Perhaps we should also look at whether the mistakes that people make in this respect are not professional mistakes. We must guide people well, but those responsible must also take their responsibility effectively, so that the procedures can be carried out correctly, within the legal deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u14	Minister, there are different ways to define a democracy. For example, a democratic State can be seen as a subtle but important balance between public security and public freedoms. Among the administrations and institutions responsible for preserving and ensuring this balance is the police. When, within the police, certain elements betray the values that derive from this balance - in particular respect for human dignity - it is the whole institution that is weakened. In doing so, it is this balance between public security and public freedoms, between police and respect for human rights, which is also weakened, and we cannot afford it. We cannot afford it because society - especially in times of health crisis - is under stress, but also because, in general, we have to uphold democratic values. You are the guardian of it, Madam Minister of the Interior, which is why you carry out a mission and perform a particularly important function. That is also why these racist, sexist, homophobic or macho behaviour - as we have seen in the report of the RTBF - cannot exist within the police, because we need a police that is in line with democratic values, unambiguously, and is sufficiently organized and respected to be able to carry out the difficult tasks that are his.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would just like to point out that the law applies to everyone, including the police. As you have said, the existing disciplinary procedure is cumbersome, and I believe that we need to legislate on this matter in order to simplify it as quickly as possible. Belgium is a rule of law and not a police state. Today, we can read in the press by means of white cards that, in the end, the citizen who leaves his home is more afraid of the police than of the possible rogue he might encounter. Our police officers must be exemplary, but the solution is neither simple nor unique. One thing is certain: we must work together as soon as possible, and my group will obviously be a partner in this. I sincerely believe that one solution lies in training, but also in the selection of our futures and aspirants. I hope, Madam Minister, that we can count on you to be able to work together very quickly on a series of texts and solutions that I hope can solve a whole series of problems that we are experiencing today far too often.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers, as often very comprehensive. I have a real flat that my colleagues have already shared about the complexity of the disciplinary procedure. I really think that we can simplify this and, in any case, find a way for whistleblowers, i.e. this very large potential majority of police officers who obviously do not recognize themselves in this kind of behaviour, to not be pressured of any kind when they find themselves having to denounce this kind of situation. I believe that the police, as an institution, are an ally in the fight against racism. In particular, it is also expected that she will be able to register complaints in a number of other areas relating to discrimination. So it's very important that we work on it. There is no possible city without police. And there is no possible police force without the trust of the citizens. That's why you, but also we all, will have to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u17	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for the answers. I would like to make two more comments. First of all, across all party boundaries: this is simply unacceptable. Unfortunately, despite all the training efforts, there will always be a few rotten apples in the basket. Disciplinary law and the disciplinary procedure remain therefore very important. I'm glad you're getting back to work with the unions, that's absolutely necessary. Two years ago, however, we were quite advanced. I understand that, in current cases, it is not obvious to work on this, but we are gradually being able to land. I think you can count on a lot of people to contribute, because everyone knows that this is important. Another point is the responsibility of the disciplinary authorities. We can only deal with this if those who have to sanction take this to heart. Perhaps you have already told me yourself, but I remember my time in the Cabinet that the ladies and gentlemen of the SAT sometimes walked out of their feet, even on weekends, in order to get a file from the Minister for a signature, in order to respect the deadlines. That's the way it's supposed to be. Time limits must simply be respected and their non-compliance punished. We really need to look at the way in which some governments deal with it. I had already heard that a letter had been sent to the King's Attorney. This now appears to be confirmed, if I have understood you correctly. Sometimes that's also used as an excuse, we have to be honest about that. Those ladies were on patrol. I don't see what the legal approach was here. Maybe there are too many loopholes to make sure it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u18	Minister, you have outlined your vision of the police, how it should be, and I agree with you on this. The question here is how to respond to the facts before us. Unfortunately, I have not received clear answers to very specific questions. Have you questioned the competent disciplinary authorities, as the law allows you to do? If so, what was their answer? What steps are you going to take to act on this issue? I think this should be a priority. It is the image of the entire police that is tainted by this behavior. We need an answer. It can't go unpunished. Second thing, I asked you about the green line. I have not heard your position on this. Are you in favour or not of setting up a green line, as many police officers are asking, so that whistleblowers can report abuses in the police without risking their career or privacy - as we have seen with the Commissioner who tried to denounce this racist behaviour? The speech you have given here, we have unfortunately heard it for a long time. I refer to the 2015 Annual Report of the P Committee, at pages 43-44. At the time, he denounced a concealment of acts of racism, not punished in the police forces, and covered by direct superiors. We have to take this in hand and, unfortunately, since 2015, things have been dragging on. Today we must act on this case, to set the example, and not only in general within the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u19	Madam Minister, I thank you for your extremely comprehensive reply, both on the fact that we condemn, but also on a more comprehensive basis, the measures and recommendations that you are implementing to combat racism and also to allow it not to be omerta in the police services. Sanctioning is very important. We know that when there is punishment, by aiming for specific responsibilities, the reproach is not cast on the entire police force. I also say this about the Chovanec case: taking swift and strong sanctions is about establishing responsibilities and not throwing reproach at the police forces as a whole, which, in their vast majority, are doing their work with integrity. We will be extremely attentive to all the measures you take to combat racism. In addition, this morning in the Committee on Justice, we discussed texts aimed at prohibiting any reference to Nazism. We therefore hope that they will be able to move forward quickly, because we will thus be able to criminalise more easily these heinous acts, which divide and constitute signs of rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u20	Madam Minister, whenever I talk to the mayor of my commune about the problem of emergency zones, he is mad at me. He is mad at me because in 2007, from the opposition benches, I was a member of the PSC, I voted for this reform, and if I did so, it was because the then Minister of the Interior, Mr Patrick Dewael, guaranteed that we would get 50 for the federal government and 50 for the communes as soon as possible. Today, you inherited this not easy to deal with, but 15 years later, we are still far from these figures. With a view to the equitable sharing of civil security costs, the legislator has provided for a 50/50 ratio between the federal state and the municipalities. This implies that the municipalities do not mobilise additional financial resources until the federal authority has itself mobilised the financial resources necessary to carry out the reform. The aim is therefore to move towards a ratio between federal and local resources equal to 1. According to the Minister of the Interior himself, "by comparing only the communal allocations with the federal allocations, it is clear that the percentage of the costs of fire services borne by the municipalities in 2014 was on average over 85%, while that of the federal state was about 10%. This ratio has evolved and for 2018, the last year for which definitive figures are available, it should be noted that the ratio between the municipalities and the federal state is 75/25". Despite the low impact on the communal budget announced in 2007, too many municipalities are struggling today, after the adoption of the law, to finance the needs of relief areas because of the decisions taken by the federal state. These decisions and requirements of the Federal State, which are rightly taken to protect the population, are likely to add to tasks and to make missions more complex, given the increase in training hours, the application of the principle of the most rapid adequate assistance, the abolition of the support of civil protection officers, the harmonisation of the administrative and financial status of the staff of the municipal fire services, etc. I do not forget, in the province of Luxembourg, from which I come, that the civil protection which was installed in the heart of the province of Luxembourg was moved by one of your predecessors, Mr Jambon, not to mention it. The relief zone had to invest in equipment in order to meet the expectations of the population. Today, civil protection is far too far from the various towns and villages in this province. This government is committed to increasing the envelope of federal allocations by $25 million. However, this amount is insufficient to meet its commitments to contribute equitably to the costs of relief areas. What do you intend to do about it? The Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 refers to a royal decree to be adopted by the Council of Ministers determining the ratio between the federal and the communes as at 31 December 2007, as well as the items of income and expenditure that are relevant to the calculation of this ratio. It is true that one day, a minister of the interior, one of your predecessors, presented a decree of this type, against which I fought, because I felt that as far as the federal envelope was concerned, everything was included in order to unjustly increase the ratio, the federal share in that ratio. I really ask you to release this royal decree as soon as possible, taking into account the real costs borne by the federal government and the municipalities. I know it's not easy. As a Member of Parliament, I insist; I am in the minority, if not in the opposition. I'd rather say in the minority than in the opposition. I really insist, so that I can continue to vote with you, as I did in 2007 on the opposition benches too. I therefore really insist that this decision be adopted as soon as possible in the Council of Ministers and that it be able to benefit from the agreement of all parliamentarians. When do you plan on taking it? If you do not intend to do so, an amendment to the law would be desirable so as not to leave the municipalities waiting indefinitely. This is the responsibility of the federal state. Madam Minister, I really count on your action in the coming days and weeks to arrive at a structural solution to this problem of the cost of emergency zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u21	Minister, at the beginning of the legislature, we had already been able to discuss this topic. Nevertheless, I would like to return to various points. It is envisaged that the relief areas will be supported on an equal basis by the municipalities and by the federal level. However, we are still far from the account, since, in the absence of a sufficiently high federal allocation, the municipalities must take over some 75 per cent of the funding for the relief areas. Unfortunately, the €25 million promised by your government to increase federal allocations from this year will still not be enough to reach the projected 50/50 ratio. My question, Madam Minister, is therefore simple: what are you going to do about this imbalance which weighs heavily on communal finances? At the end of 2024, when the federal budget will amount to almost EUR 200 million in total, can we hope that the financing of the relief areas will finally become fair between the municipalities and the federal government? Finally, what structural decisions can we expect from you to resolve this problem as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u22	Minister, in summary, the government has just decided to increase the allocation from EUR 152 million to EUR 177 million, an increase of more than 16%. This is an increase that makes it possible to move towards balanced funding of fire services between the federal and local governments. Minister, my questions are simple: What are your intentions regarding federal intervention in emergency areas? Is it a structural increase or a one shot? What are the expected distribution keys?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u23	Madam Minister, the situation has already been outlined by colleagues. I share the view that the financing of the aid areas remains difficult every year. The figures per zone, which you have given me, for which I am grateful, show that the federal level increased on average 24.61% in 2018, while the year before, i.e. in 2017, was 25.02%. If the intention is to move towards a division 50/50, then it is going in the wrong direction. In 2019 it became clear that average driving times had increased by half a minute. Let me give you an example from my aid zone, Brabant-East. There is a municipality where the driving time is on average 27 minutes. As a zone we have to plant a barracks around Tielt-Winge, but that costs money and that is not budgeted at all today. Madam Minister, how are we supposed to interpret in concrete terms the 'targeting for a 50/50 cost allocation' between the federal and municipal contributions? Does this relate to the total cost of each zone or only to the additional costs of police reform? There are different interpretations and I would like to know what the correct interpretation is. In what time can we see the 50/50 distribution realized? The law speaks of a reasonable period of time. However, that law dates back to 2007, and we are now 14 years later. Can you give us a look at that reasonable time frame? In your policy statement you speak of a financial injection, an annual increase in financial support for the assisted areas. Mr Piedboeuf has just explained what was decided in the Council of Ministers. That is a good thing, but can you explain what the contribution will be, what will happen to it and what the keys are?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u24	Minister, many things have just been said on this subject, which is of particular interest to me, since I am also president of a relief zone. Financing is one of the main problems that municipalities have faced for several years. In 2007, a law reforming civil security and creating relief zones was passed. The law clearly provided that all the consequences of the reform would be financed by the federal government until a perfect balance of funding was reached between the municipalities and the federal authority. My colleagues have also pointed out this point. It goes without saying that since then the federal government has made efforts. This was already the case under the previous legislature. Here we see an increase of 16% over the allocations for the whole kingdom. It's an oxygen balloon that does the areas good. Nevertheless, we are still far from the perfect balance. I think the thing that is missing today is the assessment of the real cost of reform, which you have to calculate because I think it has not yet been done. One example is the imposition of six - instead of four - departures for an autopompist. This decision was justified in terms of the safety of our firefighters and the effectiveness of the interventions. However, whether it's for a police officer or a firefighter, if you want staff available 24 hours a day, you have to hire seven people. Imagine a barracks such as the one in Mons, where you have to ensure at least two departures - i.e. two self-propelled - if there are two fires, you need not eight firefighters but four more firefighters, times seven. So do the calculation... the financial consequence in terms of staff burden is enormous. It is really urgent to estimate the extra cost of all these decisions at the federal level and to bear the financial consequences. How do you see things in this regard? Do you intend to carry out an evaluation of this additional cost? Have a timetable and strategy been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u25	Colleagues, the government's statement foresees a shift towards balanced funding for relief areas. After a three-year period of stagnation, I have planned to inject additional funding to increase federal allocations to relief areas and UASIS. This structural increase will be spread between 2021 and 2024: 25 million in 2021, 10 million in 2022, 2 million in 2023 and 5 million in 2024. As a result, federal endowments will be structurally increased by $42 million in 2024. The distribution of these funds among the relief areas will be based on the existing allocation keys. The increase in federal allocations is a major improvement in the federal government's share in the funding of relief areas. Mr Vandenput, it is my intention to be able to pay out that first disc of EUR 25 million in March 2021, at the same time as the regular payment of the first disk of donations to the zones. The exact modalities for this are being prepared at the moment, so that I can submit the dossier to the government in the coming weeks. With regard to the determination of the ratios between the means of the communal and federal authorities provided for under the Act of 15 May 2007 on civil security, I have asked my services to draw up the royal decree implementing article 67, paragraph 2, of the above-mentioned Act of 15 May 2007. As my predecessors have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions in their reply, the principle of 50/50 is not an objective to be achieved in itself and at all costs. The aim is to ensure that municipalities do not have to pay for the obligations imposed by the federal state. This principle is therefore essentially a guarantee for municipalities that they will not pay more for fire services than they paid for when they entered the emergency zone. In concrete terms, the costs resulting from the reform must be borne by the federal State. It is therefore necessary to check whether these costs are covered by federal allocations to relief areas. The mission to accompany civil security reform has been entrusted to a working group. In September 2017, this working group presented the first results of its work on the evaluation of the harmonisation of the new administrative and financial status of operational personnel in relief zones. The working group compared the allocations granted by the federal government for the years 2014 to 2017 to the additional costs that a harmonisation of the status would have entailed for the areas. It follows from this comparison that the additional costs are covered by all allocations for all areas. The working group was then to consider the cost of end-of-career measures and the operational operation of the relief zones. However, given the complexity of the work, it was decided to launch a public procurement. It closed at the end of October 2020, without an offer being tendered. A new market will soon be launched to conduct the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I have listened to. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the federal share of funding for relief areas has indeed increased. I find this fact very interesting. You explain to us that achieving a 50/50 distribution is not an objective. If you were to go beyond this report, it would not be one for me either, as I would like to remain at peace with the mayor of my commune. I am going to table a motion, not of distrust - since we are still almost the same party, in this case a centrist party - but a recommendation to help you, within the government, to obtain the budgetary means in order to reach the 50/50 report, which I believe is essential. In any case, whenever the federal state takes measures that cost budget, I remain convinced that it is up to it to finance the measures it has decided. I therefore stress the need for the federal state to assume its responsibilities properly in the financing of relief zones. It is all the more true that, as I mentioned to you earlier, Madam Minister, we have been abducted in the province of Luxembourg from civil protection, which was located in Libramont. I can assure you that this withdrawal has inevitably led to additional investments in the head of the relief zone so that it can render the services to which the people are entitled in a timely manner. Minister, be assured, this is a motion whose purpose is to help you, within the government, fight and succeed in the operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for your very precise answer. Nevertheless, like my colleague Thiébaut, I hope that we will be able to obtain a rapid and very precise assessment of this reform. You spoke to us about the working group of the accompanying committee. Finally, I hear that the result is bad - if I understood your words correctly - and that a public procurement will be relaunched. It is to be hoped that he will soon find a buyer. In order to continue our work, we need precise information on the consequences of this reform. I therefore hope that you will be able to carry out this project as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you. You confirm your and the government's willingness to structurally increase allocations to relief areas. This is an answer that goes exactly in the right direction. The 50% target is a figure that has been launched at some point in time. It is necessary to try to get as close as possible to it as possible, even to overcome it, as the mayor of Attert, who speaks of him to the third person, says very well! That would be good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answers. I am pleased that EUR 25 million will already be distributed in 2021, which is a significant increase compared to what is being distributed today. In addition, some EUR 17 million will be distributed in the coming years. This will allow aid areas to go a little further. What I also understand from your answer is that for any additional costs the municipalities will not contribute, but that the federal government will pay them each time. That's a good principle. Finally, you say that the money will be distributed today according to the existing keys. The figures you have given me show that for some areas the key is completely out of place, both down and up. Perhaps it is a good idea to fine-tune the keys by zone and really find out what the need is. After all, if two or three barracks are to be built up somewhere, this will immediately amount to millions of euros. Perhaps the working party should also look at this aspect and discuss it with the chairmen of the really distressed areas of aid. In any case, after years of stagnation, I have a positive evolution for which I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u30	Minister, thank you for your clear and precise explanations. It is a pity that we need to call on an external study office when we have so much potential in the civil security sector. We have very competent officers in all our areas. In my area alone, there are forty officers. There is certainly potential throughout the country to form a serious and competent working group that could do this analysis, which is very urgent. I hear you're reinvigorating a market so you can appoint experts to do this job, and I hope things won't go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u31	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, which provides for a fair distribution of the cost of fire services between the Federal State and the municipal authorities; - Whereas the ratio between the municipalities and the federal State is, according to the latest official figures in 2018, 75/25; asks the government implement article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007; - by taking a royal decree, in consultation with the unions of the cities and municipalities, which determines the items of income and expenditure which are included in the calculation of the total cost of implementing the Act of 15 May 2007 on civil security and thus to have the official figures available; - gradually during this parliamentary term to a ratio of 50/50 between the means of the federal authority and the communal authorities by substantially increasing the federal allocations to the 34 relief zones. This amounts to a budget allocation of more than 25 million euros in 2021, 10 million euros in 2022, 2 million euros in 2023 and 5 million euros in 2024, as announced." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, which provides for a fair distribution of the costs of fire services between the federal government and municipal authorities, - whereas the ratio between the municipalities and the federal government is 75/25 according to the latest official figures for 2018; asks the government - implement Article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, - by adopting, in consultation with the associations of cities and municipalities, a royal decision determining the revenue and expenditure items to be taken into account in calculating the total cost of implementing the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 and thus having the official figures, (ii) to gradually achieve a 50/50 ratio between the resources of the federal government and the municipal authorities during the current parliamentary term by significantly increasing the federal contributions to the 34 assisted areas. This amounts to the allocation of a budget envelope, as announced, of more than EUR 25 million in 2021, EUR 10 million in 2022, EUR 2 million in 2023 and EUR 5 million in 2024." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u32	Mr Boukili, the financial aspects of your question require more time for me to answer them correctly. On the other hand, I can provide you with the requested explanations on the nature of the need. The Protection Directorate has a maximum of 42 vehicles. This is the number necessary for all missions assigned to it throughout the year to be carried out. The choice of models is determined according to the technical criteria that vehicles must meet in order to carry out missions, namely the protection of a person at risk while guaranteeing the safety of the personnel responsible for this protection. Some of these missions are daily. It is therefore sometimes necessary, at certain European summits, to use a rental contract at the expense of the European institutions in order to be able to carry out all the tasks entrusted at the same time. Furthermore, to my knowledge, there is no protocol to regulate the use of such vehicles by foreign heads of State. As far as the market to which you refer, none of the ten vehicles already ordered are yet in service for a question of certification. I have already indicated that I cannot provide you with any specific details as to the progress of this contract within the time limit. But I would like to make it clear that the information in the press is not correct. Indeed, there has never been a question of acquiring 49 vehicles from the firm you are quoting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Since many of my questions remain unanswered, should I address another minister or, given that you have raised a delay problem, can you provide me with the answers to these questions at a later date? Perhaps I can re-examine you in writing or orally in order to obtain this information that could supplement the analysis of this file. I just want to know who I need to contact to receive these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u34	Mr Boukili, I would like to ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u35	Minister, it is my responsibility that, in many cases potentially involving disciplinary proceedings, the facts that may be the subject of such an action are also the subject of a criminal complaint. In this context, disciplinary authorities are sometimes reluctant to decide ahead of the conclusion of the judicial proceedings - or to take measures to exclude the officials concerned - both because of the financial burden that these measures would represent and because of the risk of seeing a judicial truth out of step with the truth established by the disciplinary authority. Can you objective this state of affairs? Do you not consider, if this is the case, that this situation must change in order to respect the spirit of the law establishing the disciplinary status of the police? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u36	We are very vigilant about the well-being and how our officials can work, but also about the rule of law. This naturally implies that when a sanction is taken, any party must be heard. This is one of the primary principles, whether in administrative or judicial law. We are reminded in the press that section 44 of the Act establishing an integrated police service would be used on many occasions for disciplinary purposes. This is a concern because, as you know, section 44 gives an area chief, for reasons related to the needs of the services, the opportunity to move a person. Today, in different areas, this movement of persons is being used for disciplinary reasons, which is not at all the meaning of section 44 of the Act. To illustrate this point, I will take an example. There are others, but there is one that is particularly shocking. This is the situation of Divisional Commissioner Pierre Vandersmissen. He has been displaced for months under article 44. Indeed, after a demonstration in September, an investigation took place and showed that Mr Vandersmissen was not responsible for the problematic facts found. Since then, this emblematic figure of our police is still placed in a ghost function under Article 44, following the decision of the mayor of the City of Brussels, who, probably pressed by left-wing movements, had decided to take this sanction against him. I imagine that the problems arising from the use of section 44 for disciplinary purposes have been reported to you. Don't you think it's time to take stock of this issue and assess the situation in the police areas? Some problems are also raised within the North Zone. Beyond the evaluation, I wonder if you should not entrust the General Inspectorate with the task of organizing an audit to see if the use of section 44 for disciplinary purposes is not spreading too widely, which would require a reshaping on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u37	Colleagues, Mr Thiébaut, it is true that, in most cases potentially involving disciplinary proceedings, the facts which may be subject to such an approach are also subject to criminal proceedings. The jurisprudence of the Council of State imposes on the disciplinary authority the obligation to conduct administrative investigations as far as the means of administration permit. The disciplinary authority therefore has no possibility of systematically waiting for the outcome of criminal proceedings. In other words, the criminal court does not keep disciplinary proceedings in order. The use of suspension of disciplinary proceedings pending a criminal decision should therefore be considered an exception. The Council of State is uncompromising with respect to this principle. I do not know to what extent the disciplinary authorities would be reluctant to rule before the conclusion of the judicial proceedings. In any event, if they do so, in addition to the above conditions, the disciplinary authorities are subject to censorship by the Council of State. Since they are independent and have discretionary powers, I am legally unable to impose on them respect for the spirit of the disciplinary law with regard to the local police and local self-government. Article 7(2) of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms is formally opposed to this. The spirit of the law should naturally prevail. Mr Ducrame, first of all, it seems to me useful to recall that a measure of order is decided by the authority, in this case the head of the corps of a local police zone, in order to guarantee or restore the proper functioning of the service. The head of the corps who adopts such a measure is not concerned with the possible guilt of the staff member, but with the fact that his or her behaviour disrupts the service. The measure taken must be as damaging as possible. Practically, in order to take such an orderly step, the competent authority must draw up a proposal for reassignment which it shall notify to the staff member concerned and in which it shall offer him the opportunity to react within a certain period of time. The documents relied upon by the authority to consider the adoption of such a measure should be annexed to this proposal. It will then take its decision, which may be appealed to the Council of State. With regard to the situation mentioned in the article published on the RTBF Info website on 18 October 2020, I confirm that the P Committee is currently conducting an investigation to verify the facts reported by staff members of the Brussels-North police zone. As regards the case of Divisional Commissioner Pierre Vandersmissen, an administrative investigation is under way within the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone. The Chief of Staff, Mr Michel Goyvaerts, decided to temporarily assign the person concerned to another position, as long as the administrative investigation was completed. It can therefore be argued that the orderly measure which temporarily alters the assignment of the divisional commissioner Pierre Vandersmissen, without prejudice to his statutory rights, constitutes an internal measure which affects the organization of the service and which is part of the proper management of human resources. Consequently, it does not appear that an unfortunate use of the law organizing an integrated police service, structured at two levels, can be invoked, which would then justify an evaluation or even a revision of its article 44. Mrs. Song, I am not aware of similar facts other than the two cases to which Mr. Ducrame refers. In general, I intend to subject the disciplinary legislation to an overall assessment and review in order to optimize the disciplinary process, as we have already discussed during this session. Rest assured that all actors involved in the disciplinary procedure will be consulted in this overall assessment and review, including trade union organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. It is clear that in any case the problem mentioned is not contradicted and there must be an evaluation because on the ground this poses problems in the organisation of the areas and in the management of the management.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u39	Madam Minister, I am sorry, but I do not agree with your interpretation of section 44. And that's a problem! Section 44 does not need to be used for disciplinary purposes. What fell within the framework of the example of the situation of Divisional Commissioner Vandersmissen is a disciplinary sanction. So there is a drift in this matter and it is a problem for me that you do not see it, as I am doing on a basis that I want as objective as possible. I will therefore come back to you with great pleasure in order to continue to submit to you a number of facts related to this drift from section 44, which does not have to be used for disciplinary purposes. This is happening all over the world and it is a real problem. I will come back with an even more precise question, even more detailed, even more technical, on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u40	Minister, I share the same concerns as my colleague Ducrame about the interpretation of section 44 and its use for disciplinary purposes. Like him, I will probably come back in the weeks and months to come, for clarification. However, as we were able to discuss it earlier, I think the evaluation of this disciplinary legislation is more than important. You said it, you're going to do it. I am already eagerly awaiting its outcome so that we can work on a possible adaptation of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u41	Mr President, Minister, it has been going on for the past few months. It is good news that all route checks can finally be connected to the police servers and thus help them catch speed devils soon. It has been said on a regular basis that they have a major impact on road safety. Research has shown that the number of speeding offences is down by 78 % and the number of accidents is down by 30 % in the route-controlled areas, but the cameras do have to work. I am glad that this is finally the case. Over the past few months, I have regularly asked you and your predecessor questions about the route checks and the reasons why those cameras were not connected. There were a lot of explanations. At first the necessary software was missing and then there was the connection of the cameras to the national network of the federal police which took some time. You also pointed out the need to conclude protocol agreements with the local authorities concerned. In reply to one of my questions, you said that all the technical conditions had to be met for a legally final collection and, in response to Mr Raskin's question a few weeks ago, you referred to the personnel capacity, the model approval of the cameras and the calibration of the installation. That's a lot of possible explanations for the same problem. So you will not blame me if I am curious about the full story and what problem has already been solved and what has not yet been solved. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, is it true that the necessary software is fully installed and operational and that all the cameras have meanwhile been linked to the national network of federal police? If not, when will this process be completed? Secondly, when was the process of concluding protocol agreements with the local authorities involved launched? Is this complete for every camera? If not, for which not? Thirdly, is there another problem with regard to the technical framework conditions? If so, do you expect this to cause any further delay? Fourthly, to what extent has the staff capacity of regional processing centres been increased over the past year? Will additional efforts be made to this end in the coming years? We read a little later in the press that the results could not be processed. Finally, is there a problem with regard to the design approval of the cameras and the calibration of the installation? If so, do you expect this to cause any further delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you again a question about route checks. I have already questioned you about this at the plenary session on 7 January. You replied that a number of directives still need to be drawn up by the College of Attorneys General, that agreements should be made with the prosecutors and that a number of further steps need to be taken by the Justice Department with regard to the judicial processing of personal data and privacy. A week later, I asked the Minister of Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne, to clarify this dossier and what concrete steps still need to be taken. He referred to a number of directives that still need to be drawn up, to which you also referred, but he also listed a number of challenges and assignments for your services. Firstly, additional staff should be provided to deal with traffic offences on the basis of the new route checks. Secondly, an amendment to the law on the police office is needed in order to be able to send the pseudonymized data from the National Technical Databank to the Regions and the municipalities for mobility purposes, for example for mapping traffic flows. Thirdly, there is also a problem with connection to the National Technical Database for the local ANPR cameras. The Police Office Act provides for a mandatory transmission of ANPR data to the General National Data Bank. In addition, it is necessary to clarify who will pay the costs for the connection to the General National Data Bank. Madam Minister, in relation to the three points listed, can you indicate what action you will take and what timing you intend to take? There's a need for additional staff. What numbers are we talking about? What budget is needed for this? Will you release those resources? It is striking that in your reply to my questions, both in the plenary session of 7 January and in the answer given by the Minister of Justice on 13 January, there is talk of a gradual, phased operationalisation of road checks. Can you give us any more details on that? What's that timing gonna look like? How many road checks, which are still in place today, will be operational by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, you are right to say that a number of aspects have already been mentioned in my answers to previous parliamentary questions. There are therefore different approaches to ANPR as a means of increasing road safety. In addition to many substantive aspects, the implementation of a national ANPR system is a complex project, which extends over several months due to the necessary technical and organisational steps, which also require continuous consultation with many different partners. This is a unique association of ANPR data, which are processed in a uniform manner throughout the country. Belgium has shown itself to be very ambitious with this approach. We can now begin to reap the benefits of this. I would like to deal with the aspects you have raised. I can confirm that the new ANPR system was activated at the beginning of 2020, namely as soon as the software was finished. The national activation of the national ANPR server was an important milestone for this. In addition to the individual ANPR cameras already connected to the national server, a first route check for the VLAS police zone was connected to this new national server. The regional central processing centre in Ghent processes the immediate collections on the basis of the findings of this first active route control, in addition to the findings already made by the GVC for the individual cameras and the already existing older route checks connected to local servers. Meanwhile, a path check in Oudenaarde was also connected and activated to the national servers. Systemically, all cameras and route checks will be connected to the AMS so that the regionally competent regional processing centres can process traffic offences more automatically. You are also right to refer to the need to conclude protocols before you can activate a path check. Depending on the camera owner, the Region or the federal police takes the initiative to draw up such a protocol agreement with the local partners. For many route controls, these protocol agreements are already in preparation and at different stages of approval by each of the partners concerned. Such a protocol agreement is intended to agree on the objectives and working methods for each partner for that particular route control. As more and more road checks will be planned and put in place, which, of course, I fully support, new protocols will therefore always be necessary. A new path check cannot be started without the agreement of each partner in the processing of these ANPR data. As far as the timing of the full rollout is concerned, I can't provide specific data. In previous answers, I already referred to the different partners that each have an aspect, such as the calibration of the cameras, which falls within the regions, the staffing capacity and the agreements with the Justice Department. As a result, the timing will be optimized on the basis of progress per route control. Any path control that complies with the cross-compliance conditions shall be activated immediately. The protocol agreement is always the last step in this chain. As regards the increase in staffing capacity, it is necessary first to indicate that the processing capacity, and hence the number of staff, is maximum aligned on the workload. In 2020, the processing capacity was already increased, while we remained within the limits of the staff donation. Places were thus completed to the maximum and internal processes improved so that the number of traffic offences that led to a fine was doubled over the past two years, from two million to four million per year. Pending the arrival of the new route checks, an application was also submitted in 2020 for 40 additional staff to cope with the large volume increase resulting from the activation of the national server. In order to validate this request for staff, the Inspector-General of Finance has asked for a supplementary file to be completed with the data from the new route checks. As the data automatically flow from AMS to the GVCs since November, the volume and nature of these infringements can be measured for the first time. On the basis of that data, an additional file will be submitted to the Inspector General of Finance in February 2021 to concreteise the previous demand for additional staff. After all, the AMS system does not automate the processing of the infringements at 100%. As many conditions, as mentioned above, now follow their path, the processing of traffic offences, resulting from decisions and additional route checks, will depend heavily on the recruitment of additional staff. The expected volume increase following the activation of all route controls is very significant and will soon be able to be quantified in concrete terms on the basis of the initial projections. I commit myself to continue to optimise and activate additional route checks once all the conditions for this are met. The number of infringements to be identified by route control will be increased as soon as the processing capacity allows. It is perhaps important to note that the activation of a route check and the increase in the number of hours it detects traffic offences are two separate aspects. Activation will be possible whenever there is a protocol agreement. For processing per route control, the volume is increased according to the GVC processing capacity to be increased. As you read, all the answers from the past few weeks still apply and are part of the steps needed to increase road safety through an efficient national ANPR management system. Mr Vandenbroucke, on the sharing of anonymised or pseudonymized data from non-politic authorities and partners, the federal police, in consultation with Justice, are preparing a legislative initiative. The assignment is in a final phase. For your question on funding, let me explain the cost model. The national project called AMS is based on the idea of building a central system to serve all police and intelligence services. It eliminates the need to set up local servers and thus provides cost savings to the participating services. Before the AMS system, each police zone or municipality wishing to operate with ANPR data had to install its own servers. The national system is going to get rid of that. The local police zone can now choose to maintain a local server located between the cameras and the central infrastructure. The disadvantage is that two connections have to be realized and paid instead of just one connection. It is important to know that the price of such a rental connection between a camera and a local server or camera and the national server is the same. However, when there is a local server in between, of course, it is paid twice. The discussion you are referring to is about who pays the connectivity costs from a local server to the central AMS server, when the police zone chooses to maintain that local server. Further consultation is planned, to clear that up. In addition, I can state that the integration cost of cameras or systems purchased before the federal framework contract AMS became available is borne by the federal budget by default. Standardized procotols will be offered for this purpose. Therefore, all systems using this software do not generate any additional costs for local police. This also applies to the cost caused by the migration of already active cameras from the federal AMS system purchased for the availability of the federal public tender. These costs are therefore fully borne by the federal project. As you can see, the cost model takes into account past investments. The federal police have registered all costs on their own budget, as long as they decide to connect to the central server, without an intermediate station, and as long as they have followed the framework contract as soon as it becomes available. The model only leads to additional costs for police areas that explicitly make different choices, due to their own needs, which are not centrally provided by the AMS system. With regard to the workload of the processing of traffic offences, the federal police have always ensured that the processing capacity is in line with the workload of the regional processing centres. This year, with the advent of many new route controls, the task is particularly challenging. An initial estimate of the workload was already prepared in September 2018, based on the list of new route checks. This analysis, which was previously theoretical, because we did not yet have concrete data, has enabled us to inform the various internal bodies, in order to prepare the processing centres for the arrival of the new trajectories. In June 2020, the Inspector General of Finance was reminded of the results of that study. On this basis, a request for additional staff was made. An increase of 40 staff is now being requested, which should ultimately allow for a doubling of treatment capacity. The Inspector-General of Finance requested an additional specific dossier based on real statistics before being able to validate that increase in staff. To this end, we had to wait until the route checks were connected in the AMS and those images arrived directly in the data processing centres in order to check the workload. Since this has been the case since 20 November 2020, we can monitor this and we can also take that data into account in order to submit that supplementary dossier to the Inspector-General of Finance. In any case, investment in furniture and ICT at the data processing centres is ready to process these new trajectories. An analysis of the servers is also underway to ensure that the capacity remains in line with the estimated processing. The budget is also earmarked for additional investment. We are now going to work with this recruitment reserve, to see new colleagues arriving from March or April, subject to the agreement of the Inspector-General of Finance. The financing of these GWCs has been agreed in the Road Safety Fund, in the joint procurement section. So far we have always had the means to ensure the proper functioning of these GWCs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u44	Madam Minister, we have been working on route checks for a number of months now, because they are important to increase the chances of catching up in our country. We believe that this is a crucial step towards increasing road safety, something to which people have committed themselves, for example, in the coalition agreement. That ambition was put very sharply there. Your answer bears witness to the importance you attach to this issue. Your answer was quite technical, but I do feel that you have tried to answer all my specific questions. I have noted that working with local authorities and the Regions in this is incredibly important. You say that the route checks should be able to work as soon as the conditions are met. Additional staff will also be provided to process the data. On the other hand, I could tell from your extensive technical answer that we have not yet arrived. So I will continue to follow this closely, just because these route checks are so important. Indeed, research has shown that they lead to fewer speeding offences and a reduction in the number of road victims. So we have to do everything we can to make the infrastructure that is on it work effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for the very concrete answer, you have really answered every question. Mr President, I do not think it is a problem at all if the speaking time for this is exceeded, because we are asking questions for answers. I also find the answer hopeful. I do not pretend that I have been able to follow everything perfectly, but it seems that the important formal steps that need to be taken, both technical and legal, are being taken at a rapid pace. So progress is being made. I have noted that you have requested additional capacity, and it seems that it will also be absolutely necessary when the large investment in route checks can finally be validated by the operation of the systems. I am very interested in the analysis of the findings mentioned when the new route checks are activated. I am also curious about the evolution after some time because the number of violations is normally falling spectacularly and also spectacularly quickly as the controls enter into force. Let us hope that capacity can also evolve in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the problem is well known to you. The government agreement states that 1,600 inspectors and agents will be recruited each year. During your policy statement, you explained that recruitment procedures will be faster, without compromising quality. In 2021, the procedures would be applied from spring onwards. I think you were talking about March or April. In the corridors of the federal police and the chiefs of police it can be heard that there would already be two pre-collections on the newly recruited people for this year: one pre-collection by the federal police and another by the Brussels zones. Together, it would be a preliminary reduction of about 700 people. According to the procedure, the Commissioner-General must decide on any prepayments, but in practice this is always done in consultation with the Minister for the Interior. In the outskirts of Brussels, there are police areas that have been in serious need of staff for several years. In the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde today there are on average 20% fewer inspectors and agents than provided for in the zones. It's about operational personnel on site, not CALOG or neighborhood agents. In the arrondissement of Leuven, this is on average 12% less. When we look at the recruitment rates for Flemish Brabant in recent years, we see these figures falling: 119 inspectors in 2016, which fell to 110 in 2017, 103 in 2018, 105 in 2019 and only 51. So there's a big problem now and the next two years in Halle-Vilvoorde and Leuven. Let me give you another example. In two weeks, there will be a zonal security council in our police area. With the chiefs of police and the mayors, we have agreed that we will show two slides. One with the figures that are 'deficit' and the other we will simply apply the basic safety. That's all we can do, that's all it will be. I think that zonal security council will last 15 minutes. Madam Secretary, is it true that the federal police and the Brussels zones have requested a pre-emption? What should the criteria be for allowing pre-selections for those zones? Has a distribution plan of the new inspectors and agents to be recruited been drawn up for the following years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u47	Madam Minister, I am very curious to hear your answers to Mr Vandenput's questions. My questions are in line with that. In my written question of 9 November concerning the recruitment of police officers, you indicated that the procedure of candidate inspectors currently takes eight to twelve months. To shorten the procedure there will be more digitized tests. Candidates would also make their selections in the police areas that will recruit future policemen. For example, the selection procedure could be reduced to four months. A Fast Track procedure would also be used in order to ensure rapid entry into the school to better meet the needs of certain police areas. Madam Secretary, how many candidate inspectors registered in 2020? From when would the short selection tests be carried out? Are those digitized tests ready yet? Can you give more information on the operation of the Fast Track project? Does this mean that, after his training, the selected candidate inspector will preferably be included in the police area where the specific need was? Almost all police zones are looking for inspectors to fill out their framework. Does this mean that selection tests can by definition be carried out in any police area? Or is this limited to, for example, one or two police zones per province? Is the candidate inspector, after being trained, preferred to be recruited in the police area where he started the selection tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u48	Mr Vandenput, the system of pre-collection does not exist and therefore does not apply to the federal police and to the Brussels zones. At present, the police areas which wish to do so can proceed to direct recruitment. The police zones will then have the certainty that the selected candidates will end up with them. The downside of the coin is that in this case they have to finance the recruitment and training of the candidates themselves. This option is currently being used by the police zone of Antwerp. It is difficult to find objective criteria for a prior distribution. The size of the staff shortage is one of them. Students are currently divided by police school. There is no distribution plan to which you refer. With the new selection and recruitment concept, it is the police zone or unit of the federal police that has to recruit and select itself. The number of candidates to be recruited is determined by taking into account the number of persons retiring and the staff shortage. Every year the federal police ask all police zones to deliver their personnel needs. As far as police inspectors are concerned, the number for this legislature has been set at 1,600 people per year, as you know. For the other frameworks, the figure will be known in the coming weeks. Mr Moyaers, the number of police candidates was around 8,900 in 2020. The roll-out of the new selection system is foreseen in spring, after the adoption of the new legislative proposal. A number of selection tests were deleted. The emphasis will indeed be on computerized testing. The aim is to reduce the selection procedure to four months. Thanks to the Fast Track trials, which take only two weeks, the schools' laureates will be able to be quickly selected and recruited to better meet the needs of certain police areas. We created such tests for the police areas that were asking parties and where the candidates will also be recruited at the end of the training. From the roll-out of the new selection system, candidates will be able to perform computerized tests as well as an interview with the federal police. If they succeed, they shall form part of a reserve which may be used by the zones, if they deem it necessary or wish to do so. They may then submit the candidates to a selection committee. Anyone who succeeds is immediately accepted by this zone, after completion of the training. Ms. Song, as a reminder, psychotechnical tests evaluate abstract, verbal and numerical reasoning. We note that nearly nine out of ten police inspectors are currently passing this test, which is one of the selection tests considered to be the easiest in the entire process. On the basis of these figures, it is therefore wrong to say that psychotechnical tests have a significant failure rate. This therefore does not require further analysis. In addition, similar exercises are offered on the website of the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service in order to demystify and train in this event. Finally, given the percentage of successful candidates for this test and the possibility of exercising on the federal police website, I do not consider psychotechnical tests to be a barrier to recruitment. In 2021, the launch of the new'recruitment today' communication line, as well as the production of new communication media, as well as a continuous development of communication on the new selection concept will be prioritized. As far as selection is concerned, the Royal Decree and the Ministerial Decree are to date in the Council of State. The new concept will start with the approval of the new concepts in early March. All digitized tests will then be implemented. During the generic selection, the candidate will be required to pass, in an orderly and eliminatory manner, digital language and reasoning tests, sports and medical tests, online digitized personality tests and a face-to-face semi-structured interview. Finally, a committee of deliberation will decide on the whole selection. If the candidate succeeds in the selection, he/she shall be paid into the reserve, the validity of which shall be two years. On the reserve, he has the opportunity to apply in federal areas or services to pass before a commission. If the candidate passes his selection board in the area, he enters training. Aspirants inspectors necessarily integrate the areas that recruited them after their training has been completed. A plan for the distribution of commitments and requirements for inspectors by school has been planned to achieve the objectives required of the successful candidates to be included in the training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u49	Mr President, Minister, thank you, you were very clear in your answers. You're saying there's no such thing as prepayments. I think that is a very good answer because that would mean that everyone is equal before the law. However, from a well-informed source, I know that the federal police are going to announce everywhere that they have 400 people in advance, of which 100 are for the aviation police. Perhaps you should talk to the Commissioner-General again to check that information. Maybe he's not telling you everything yet. I think direct recruitment is a good principle. We have been able to consult the figures in this respect. We could see that Antwerp is not a good example and could work more efficiently. It is also not a workable solution for smaller zones. Zones will have to group and then start recruiting locally together. With regard to the distribution plan of those who will influx through recruitment, I would like to point out that the areas which are currently suffering from a 20% deficit are first served and that areas where only replacements are to be carried out and which have no deficit, or where even more people are employed than necessary, will be dealt with later. Priority should therefore be given to areas where need is greatest. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I'm pleased to hear you say there are no preliminaries. I think we should wait until spring, in particular until the new legislative proposal has been adopted and the shortened procedure can enter into force. Like Mr Vandenput, I am concerned about recruitment in smaller zones. I believe that, in this context, and during this period of government, we should also consider possible mergers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u51	I simply thank the Minister for her clear and specific answers to each of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u52	Madam Minister, in April of last year we saw the terrible report of the RTBF on the problems of sexism, racism, harassment and intimidation in a Brussels police area. Women police officers who work hard every day for our safety have been harassed and intimidated by their colleagues or superiors. The minister at the time informed us that an internal investigation was under way. In December of last year, we were able to read that the investigation was coming to an end. My questions are as follows. What progress has been made in this survey? If it is completed, what are the conclusions and what steps have been taken? If this is not the case, what is the status of the investigation and what is the priority given to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u53	Mr Boukili, your question refers to a report by the RTBF in May 2020. This report covered various cases of moral and physical harassment, as well as cases of racism and intimidation within the federal police force, as well as in various local police areas across the country. He had been the subject of questions in the plenary of the House the week of his screening and had raised many oral questions on the issue of harassment in the police service, to which my predecessor Mr. De Crem had provided answers in the same commission. For the sake of fairness and not wishing to cast reproach on a particular police force, I invite you to specify the police area to which you refer in your question, so that I can return to you with the information requested. In addition, I would like to point out that a wide-ranging IDEWE (External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work) survey was carried out in this context by the Federal Police. The results of this survey have been the subject of numerous parliamentary questions and have led to an action plan in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. My question was about the investigation that was conducted. What had been the result and what had been the conclusions? In this regard, unless there is an error of inattention on my part, I have not received an answer. If it has not been achieved, what steps should be taken? I don't know how to take your answer because my question is about the findings of the investigation. What are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question again concerns the province of Luxembourg. I am being questioned by the divisional members of this province who fear the gradual disappearance of the railway police (SPC) in our province. Normally, an SPC station is planned in Libramont in the railway station's infrastructure. Currently, there are three members of the SPC for the province of Luxembourg. These police officers were informed that when they retired, they would not be replaced. Reason given: there is no suitable infrastructure to accommodate SSC staff. This lack of railway police personnel in the province of Luxembourg has the effect of relaying to SPC Liège when interventions are necessary in the province of Luxembourg. This relay generates very long response times, with the risk of train immobilization for long hours. As far as preventive patrols are concerned, it must be noted that their number is almost zero, if not non-existent, the numbers remaining in priority on Liège and Namur. SOC and the Police Information and Communication Centre 111 use police zones in case of problems. However, local police officers are not trained to intervene on the tracks, with a high risk and a need for specific training and certification. They still intervene, at their own risk, for certain serious acts (violence, serious crimes...) to the detriment of their other missions. Madam Minister, do you confirm that the province of Luxembourg will soon have no railway police? Why? Was this decision taken in consultation with the local police areas? What solutions do you propose to secure our railways with staff authorized to operate on the tracks? The police area of Arlon asks that its staff be strengthened if the security of the Arlon station depends on its exclusive responsibility. The other police areas of the province of Luxembourg also make the same requests concerning the security of their stations. I think they've contacted you about this. How do you respond to this large demand in the province of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u56	Mr President, Mr Arens, I have already been asked several times about the reform project initiated by my predecessor, Jan Jambon, concerning the updating of the principle of specialisation of the railway police. I can assure you that at the moment no final decision has been taken on this matter. I cannot, therefore, at present confirm to you the scenario that the province of Luxembourg will no longer have any railway policies. However, I can assure you that this work of reflection on the railway police has been the subject of collaborative work between the federal police and the Standing Commission on Local Police since 2018. The various working hypotheses envisaged in this project will continue to foster consultation within the two levels of the integrated police force, as well as with SNCB and local authorities. These discussions will have to take into account the particular problems of the rail network you are quoting. Finally, I would like to point out that in the circular of 15 April 2002 on the responsibility of the administrative authorities and the division of labour between the police in the field of safety in the railways, only about 10 stations are taken up as being the subject of specific support from the SPC. The only station on this list is Libramont, which is not part of Arlon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that we will have an opportunity to discuss this in the Police College in the coming weeks, since we are really concerned about this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u58	Madam Secretary, I've been working on the dossier on nitrous oxide for a while. I am working on this in the Committee on Health and I would like to listen to you for a moment about how you intend to combat nitrous oxide. I put a question to the Minister of Health yesterday because it is becoming more and more common for young people to use nitrous oxide in traffic, but also at the lockdown parties we could see that the popularity of nitrous oxide is rising. Our neighbour Holland trains its police in the use of nitrous oxide tests and I would like to ask you how you will protect our residents from the use of nitrous oxide, both in traffic and in general. How do you see enforcement in our country? Can you explain whether you have plans for this in the short or long term and whether this can be done in consultation with the Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u59	Colleagues, the police are obviously aware of this problem. The information I obtained from the department of Toxicology at the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology shows that nitrous oxide is not traceable in the saliva. A method for the detection of nitrous oxide in blood has been described in the academic literature, but only in the case of an overdose. The difficulty with nitrous oxide is that it is eliminated very quickly from the body and is therefore difficult to trace. Laughing gas causes euphoric and sedative effects. It may result in unclear speech, dizziness, slow response, immunity to pain and sound stimulation and sedation. Since there is no means of initial screening, such as a saliva test or a urine test, the police can only rely, where appropriate, on the above-mentioned external characteristics. Police may, where appropriate, banish on the basis of Article 35 of the Road Traffic Act. A blood test for the detection of nitrous oxide cannot be carried out because it is not included in the Road Traffic Act. Article 44a (1) of the Criminal Code also states that if the perpetrator of the crime or the malpractice is caught in the act, the King's Attorney may order a physician to make the medical findings on the state of drunkenness of the suspected perpetrator and of the victim of the crime. He can order the physician to take a blood sample. However, this provision shall not apply in the event of infringement of the laws and regulations relating to road transport. These two provisions make it difficult to act immediately and ask for the blood test, but if nitrous oxide is found in the vehicle, the police can confiscate the capsules or bottles on the basis of Article 30 of the Police Office Act without any related legal evidence. If there are any court-related facts, the bottles and capsules can be confiscated according to the guidelines of the King's Attorney. Given the information obtained through the NICC on the traceability of nitrous oxide in the blood, it does not seem appropriate to provide for a provision in the Road Traffic Act to carry out a blood test. Several dirco's and governors are developing rules to arrive at a clear policy in the context of seizures. The inhalation of nitrous oxide does not infringe road traffic regulations, but the behaviour behind the wheel can be punished. If symptoms of the use of nitrous oxide are detected, a report shall be drawn up. If there is evidence that nitrous oxide was used, such as, for example, finding capsules in the vehicle, this will also be reported in the minutes. Unfortunately, no figures are available today. The police database makes no distinction in the state of drunkenness caused by alcohol, drugs or medicines. Therefore, no figures are available regarding the use of nitrous oxide while driving a vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is interesting to hear that no distinction is made in the data collection between alcohol, medicine and other drugs. That might be something we can work on. In any case, I will do some research and perhaps come back to you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u62	Minister, I wanted to ask you about what we call ethnic profiling. The term discriminant profiling is also used, as it is realized that profiling is not only ethnic. It is sometimes oriented to considerations of religion, sex or even sexual orientation. I would have liked this to be included in the first topical debate, but perhaps it is specific on ethnic profiling. That said, it still concerns racism in the police: we talked about the actions in the Chovanec case, the Facebook group having a racist character bringing together hundreds of worrying police officers and this summer, a commissioner from a North Sea area assumed ethnic profiling. He told the radio and television that he was waiting for young people of foreign origin to leave the train to control them. We see that, although ethnic profiling is prohibited, there are elements that repeat themselves. I'm going to talk about the 24th January case, but I'm not going to dwell on it. My colleague, Mrs Chanson, will come back later, today or in another series of questions. Ten days ago, 86 minors were arrested, an extreme majority of whom were minors of foreign origin. Some are now making chilling accounts, minister, of what has happened to them. Some were waiting for their buses at a bus stop, were unaware of a demonstration that led to arrests, and were blown up by law enforcement, without even understanding why they were being arrested. We really have something to suspect about ethnic profiling in these arrests. We will probably come back later, the investigation is under way, but this case is worrying. Ethnic profiling is therefore a reality, which it is time for us to assume. Amnesty International explains this by defining ethnic profiling as a way of disproportionately controlling ethnic minorities. She's recognized him in the last few months. The Human Rights League has also affirmed this. She explained that a survey had taken place and that 40 per cent of the victims of so-called abusive arrests or controls were of foreign origin, were racialized. Internal investigations, including the P Committee, assume and confess this ethnic profiling. I think the last thing to do would be to deny the problem. On the contrary, we must attack it. Minister, do you recognize this phenomenon - structural or non-structural, conscious or unconscious - of ethnic profiling within the police? In view of the increasing number of racist acts of intervention or speech by some police officers, what measures are you going to put in place to ensure that police controls are carried out objectively? How are police officers punished whose racist behaviour is proven? How is racism addressed in the recruitment, training and career of an officer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u63	Madam Minister, following on from what my colleague has just said, I would like to inform you that certain police areas are taking on their responsibilities. Thus, in Ghent, the police zone will verify its own functioning with regard to identity checks. Police officers will receive training on professional profiling, which will allow them to carry out fair and correct identity checks. They now want to know if these trainings are effective. The public has repeatedly complained that young people of foreign origin are controlled more often than others. How will the study working group proceed? Will he ask the agents to register each identity check and clearly justify their actions, a recommendation that experts and activists have been making for some time? What is your position on this? What does professional profiling training look like in Ghent? What are its objectives and concrete recommendations? Do you think you can generalize this training? What do you think of the initiative to conduct this study? Could it, in your opinion, serve as an example for other parts of the country? Do you agree with Commissioner General De Mesmaeker, who is in favour of the generalization of this experience in other police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u64	Mr Boukili, maintaining a relationship of trust between the citizen and the police is essential in a democracy and in a rule of law. For many years, the Ghent police area has been supporting its employees in carrying out quality identity checks as well as in the continuous professionalization of its operation. The framework for professional profiling is included in the Ghent Police Diversity Plan and is part of its zonal security plan. It is also included in the city of Ghent's Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Racism Action Plan 2020-2025. The framework for professional profiling has been developed by the Dutch police and focuses on the objective of the monitoring criteria and on the communication of these criteria to the persons concerned. This frame of reference was then adapted to Belgian reality and standards. Its launch was formalized in June 2020 by the signing of a formal commitment to the implementation by the four corps chiefs of the police areas of Ghent, Antwerp, Brussels-Nord and Malines-Willebroek at the Dossin barracks. This framework helps to identify and control people effectively and targeted on the basis of behaviours, facts and circumstances and contains a number of guidelines for each phase of identity control. At present, given the health crisis, it is mainly theoretical training that is given and the training equipment is being developed. The mayor, the competent bishop and the police also consider it necessary to provide scientific support for the introduction of the framework of reference on professional profiling. This is why the Welfare and Equal Opportunities Service and the Ghent Police Service will work together with the help of researchers to identify the effects and impact of the reference framework and the trainings that form part of this framework. The Ghent study is not intended to attempt to record all possible controls through parallel national and long-term registration systems. However, this is a useful development that makes it easy to record all controls performed and allows the police and scientists to use them as an evaluation tool as well. At the national level, the work of the four police forces has been commented on and incorporated into the integrated police force. As a first step, the Hannah Arendt Institute plans, in January 2021, a round table on the following topics: police, diversity and professional profiling. Mr Moutquin, as I have already said, there is no problem of structural racism or ethnic profiling within the integrated police force. Of course, we are dealing with one-off slippages, but these are isolated cases. The figures of Committee P go in this direction with a very low rate of complaints on the grounds of racism or discrimination. The police organization takes every act of racism and discrimination seriously and continues to combat inappropriate behaviour or statements by a very limited part of police personnel. I ask the hierarchy to always take the necessary disciplinary measures for acts of racism established by members of the integrated police force and to respect the procedural deadlines. The Police Code of Ethics makes it clear that there is no room for racism, behaviour or discriminatory remarks in police services. Profiling based solely on ethnic origin is not in accordance with the rules. It is therefore important to train our police officers in professional profiling to use objective parameters and to do so within a specific and professional regulatory framework. Actions are planned within the training to further raise awareness among field staff. In addition, the Integrated Police is an important partner in the drafting and implementation of the Interministerial Plan to Combat Racism. The Federal Police maintains dialogue and collaboration with Unia and NGOs that have made recommendations, in particular on professional police profiling. The integrated police is also working on the development of a directive to ensure that police checks are carried out in an objective and professional manner. With regard to the reform of the selection procedure, diversity is an important point. The Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service has therefore worked to organize new selection tests that are as objective and neutral as possible. Assessments focus on skills rather than the individual. The selection of candidates is based exclusively on the skills sought and thus reduces the discriminating impact. Candidates with racist motivations cannot be admitted to basic training. I would like to point out that the fight against racism and discrimination has a significant role to play in the basic training of police officers, which must in particular enable them to identify the elements constituting infringements of anti-racism and anti-discrimination laws. This is a cross-cutting objective of training. In the future, basic training will be extended to professional profiling. Holocaust, police and human rights training at the Dossin barracks is also available to aspirants of provincial police schools and also for ongoing training. During this training, the historical context is linked to the current police work. Since 2020, continuous 'polarisation' training, which is being provided, offers concrete tools for dialogue within an increasingly polarised society. Finally, police areas and federal police entities can develop tailor-made training in collaboration with Unia. Thus, Unia also accompanies us in the training of reference police officers for the recording and detection of hate crimes. The Anti-Racism and Anti-Discrimination Act is also recalled. The role of the reference police officer is then to raise the awareness of the members of his department. In addition to training, a campaign to raise awareness of racism is organised within the police organization. In addition to the preventive part, I would like to reiterate that there is also the possibility of reacting to acts of racism in the workplace or towards citizens. In these cases, the procedures will be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you very much. It is not always easy to reply, as you provide complete answers. I would like to thank you for continuing your efforts to support diversity initiatives, as you announced when you took office. In reply to one of our colleagues, you have rightly indicated that there are many acts of racism in the police, but no more than elsewhere in society. For my part, I do not claim at all that there are more in the police force than, for example, in this Parliament - I am taking a break - or in the rest of society. Having said that, you mention Unia several times. However, this organization has explained well that the rate of reporting racism within the police was only the tip of the iceberg, as many people do not file complaints. For this reason, it seems to me that it cannot be said that these figures are low, since they are not known. Hence the idea of combating ethnic profiling very concretely. Above all, we must not generalize, because we must show respect for the police officers who do very difficult work, as we see in these times of covid. On the other hand, if we do not have to systematize, it is also important not to trivialise facts that are becoming more and more repeated. It's a nuance to bring. Ethnic profiling causes a psychological impact on young people that is critical and worrying; they lose confidence in themselves and in their communities. Similarly, there is a loss of trust and legitimacy on the part of the police. Finally, for the latter, it is also a waste of time and a link with society. We have tabled a bill because Parliament must continue to debate very calmly and fulfil its role as a democratic player in this issue. We really want to listen to the other political groups about the solutions to combat this scourge of ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u66	Minister, I would like to join you in saying that there is no more racism in the police than in the rest of society. But the police are sworn in and must enforce the law. They must protect our rule of law. On the issue of profiling, I think the city of Ghent is setting an example. I see that you are in favour of this approach and I hope that it will be widespread in the fight against this problem. Racism is not just a problem for those who suffer it but is much broader. This is discrimination, which may concern people of foreign origin, but also women, as I said in my question about the report of the RTBF. Any form of discrimination cannot exist in our society or in our police. Every effort must be made to ensure that this type of slippage does not occur. I will pay attention to the various policies and procedures put in place to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u67	Madam Secretary, many squatters are active in our capital. Everyone has the right to housing, but cracking is forbidden and punishable. That is why I believe it should be addressed. In this connection, I am also concerned about cat and mouse games with the police in the context of curfew. Along with my question, I have also provided you with the poster on this subject. Because it's sometimes about young people, I'm glad you started the hackathon yesterday to improve contacts between young people and police. That is a commendable initiative. Are you aware of these facts, do you know the posters and what actions will you take to stop these cat and mouse games with the police about squatting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u68	Mr Demon, the Brussels police are indeed aware of these so-called cat-and-mouse games and the associated posters. This morning, I consulted with the mayor and a police commissioner of the city of Brussels, and this situation has been discussed. There are currently no specific actions because they are part of the regular police work, but the situation is monitored daily. With the help of regular patrols and specific COOVID-19 patrols, the police services are responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the COOVID-19 measures and, of course, include such actions and initiatives in their operatives. Persons who fail to comply with curfew rules or violate other rules relating to co-training will be interviewed and, if necessary, fined. You can therefore trust that the Brussels police and the local mayor will continue to monitor the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I believe that together we must ensure that this situation in Brussels is dealt with properly, so that it does not spread to other regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic364x.u70	Madam Secretary, I would urge you to devote sufficient time next week. There are now about 70 questions that need to be answered. I also give colleagues the opportunity to translate these questions into written questions. The answer will then be delivered to you soon. I would like to finish our agenda next week, because after that it is crocus vacation and then the questions may pile up again.
