ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u2	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Mr. Marc Goblet, who died on June 16, 2021. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Marc Goblet, who died on 16 June 2021. The alternate to replace him is Mr Hervé Rigot, the first alternate. The successor who will replace him is Mr Hervé Rigot, first successor. On 19 September 2019, the latter had been admitted to serve as a member of the House of Representatives, replacing Mr. Frédéric Daerden, a member of the Community Government, for the duration of his term of office. On 19 September 2019, the latter was allowed to sit as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of Mr Frédéric Daerden, member of the Community Government, for the duration of his office. There is therefore no need to verify the credentials of that alternate who had been admitted to serve as a member of the House of Representatives in place of a Minister or Secretary of State and for the duration of the latter's duties. Consequently, it is not necessary to examine the credentials of this successor who was authorised to sit as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of a minister or a State Secretary for the duration of his office. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te levven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr Hervé Rigot to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Hervé Rigot to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u3	Mr. Hervé Rigot will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Hervé Rigot will be part of the French language group. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate who will sit in his turn to replace Mr Frédéric Daerden in accordance with Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers. We must accept and take the oath of the successor who, in turn, is entitled to replace Mr Frédéric Daerden in accordance with Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 establishing the incomparencies and denials concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers. Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure, second alternate in the electoral district of Liège, accepts the term of office and will replace Mr. Frédéric Daerden for the duration of his term of office. Ms Chanelle Bonaventure, second successor to the Liège constituency, took office and replaced Mr Frédéric Daerden for the duration of his duties. Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te levven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u4	Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure will be part of the French linguistic group. Ms Chanelle Bonaventure will be part of the French language group. Congratulations and welcome to our Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, I have three good news for you. First good news, the first question isn't about corona or about relance. Second good news, there is a lady, Stephanie Kelton - that she is a lady, may make you happy - who has written a book on modern monetary theories, in which she says that the myth of sovereign debt must be pierced. After Keynes and Friedman, a woman finally came to tell us the truth. Only, she says, is there a need for monetary sovereignty and interest rate sovereignty. We don't really have that in Belgium. We must also control inflation and unemployment. Third good news, there is great confidence on the part of consumers and entrepreneurs. Growth is going to be spectacular this year. The bankruptcies are not catastrophic. The labour market is attracting attention. However, there are bad figures for the coming years. The current deficit falls for a short time but rises to 5.6 % at the end of the legislative term. The debt we had received together at 99 percent would go to 120 percent and more. Everyone is afraid of inflation. I was young when the inflation rate was 13 % and the interest rate was also 13 %. Today we actually live by the grace of a very low interest rate. Everyone who knows the budget knows that. My questions are twofold. How will the government in the medium term try to overcome the current deficit, both inter-federally, because there are a quarter of the Länder, as well as federally, in the areas of care, pension and disability? Will you be able to implement a tax reform? What do you do with the labour market and with the level of effectiveness? My second question is perhaps even more coffee-watching, but interesting as you are in the front row. What does Europe do? What does the ECB do? What will be done with the Stability and Growth Pact and the excessive deficit procedure? Thank you, Prime Minister. I will return to you after your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u6	Mr Nones, the IMF's evaluation of our country is something we are always looking at with great interest. The IMF welcomes the way in which we have dealt with the vaccination campaign and the balance that we have found between preserving health and keeping our economy as open and reopening as possible. If we had received the growth forecasts of the IMF, which are similar to those of the National Bank, six months ago, we would have absolutely signed up for that. The state debt is a reality, it is not something that will disappear by itself and in my view it cannot be trivialized either. I therefore totally disagree with the new monetary theory. We shall pursue a budgetary policy in the manner clearly indicated in the coalition agreement. In fact, we will link the clean-up to growth. On the one hand, we will look at the extent to which the economy has recovered from the situation before 2019 and, on the other hand, we will see how strong growth is. If there is a lot of growth, it will give us the opportunity to create buffers. These buffers should help us in the short term to stabilise public debt growth and in the medium and long term to reduce public debt. After all, we must ensure that our country has some margin if there is to be a new crisis. We need buffers to deal with a new crisis. In this respect, I do not follow the theory you are referring to, which would suggest that we should not actually prepare for it. Structural reforms are fundamental, and the IMF is pointing the finger at the pain points in our country in this respect. We have too low activity rates today, which is why we are also focusing on labour market reforms to increase employment rates. I would like to say one more thing about the Stability and Growth Pact, the SGP, which is being discussed by Ecofin and the Eurogroup. Minister Van Peteghem speaks for our country there. The position of our country in this respect is that the SGP should not be simply eliminated. We shouldn't throw the baby away with the bathwater. I believe that the general escape clause applicable for 2022 should be temporary, but Europe must also consider how to adapt the SGP in order to ensure that economic recovery is boosted as much as possible, for example with investment, while at the same time ensuring that the deficit is kept low and debt is reduced. For me, this is an essential debate which must take place as quickly as possible in Europe and which is also very important for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u7	Mr Prime Minister, Churchill, who would have embraced Stephanie Kelton and then killed him with a lightning word, said: the longer one looks back in history, the further one can look forward. I can't look back that long, but that's starting to happen. When we were ministers in the Di Rupo government together, the debt crisis followed the banking crisis. When we were in the Michel administration together, the migration crisis followed the terrorist crisis. So my fear is that this first crisis will almost automatically be followed by a second one, which is generally not the case in the United States. There, after the banking crisis, there was no debt crisis due to greater currency sovereignty. There, the terrorist crisis has not caused migration to occur because of a different geographical situation. How are you going to avoid this happening again? The only way to do that is to look ahead for a long time. What you say about the Stability and Growth Pact does not reassure me at all, because Europe will, of course, be shrugging its shoulders in the short term, because Italy and so on and so on. My great fear is inflation and interest rates. We have an interest-rate debt today which is absolutely ridiculous. If it increases, we're screwed. I beg the whole government to think ahead sufficiently long so that there is no second crisis after the first. You can count on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, there are 456, 456 undocumented people who started a hunger strike a month ago at the church of Béguinage, on the sites of the Free University of Brussels (ULB) and the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB). Of course, the method is extreme, but it reflects the deep dismay and despair that these men and women have been experiencing since the constitution of your government. Let us put ourselves in their place: after four years of a very hard migration policy under the aegis of the N-VA, they could hope to open up the question of the criteria for regularisation. As we know, the Vivaldi government agreement is silent on this issue, and the undocumented are among the sacrifices of Vivaldi, among others. In the face of this situation which seems inextricable, everyone does what he can. The PS called for the acceleration of an interdepartmental conference. Ecolo wrote a white card. As for us, we have tabled a bill to open up, to allow clear criteria for regularization in the law and to establish an independent and permanent regularization commission, a proposal which, no later than last week, was rejected by the majority in this House. Let's be clear. In terms of substance, I believe that no one – because I feel that we are going to be told – is asking for a massive collective regularization of the 100 to 150,000 people who are staying in this country without a legal right to stay. What is required is a little more criteria, a little more courage, a little less arbitrariness, and a little more transparency. Mr Prime Minister, Mr Secretary of State, my question is simple: do you confirm the line of government that has been followed so far, and which is, on this issue, to camp on the line already drawn by the Swedish coalition? Do you persist, despite the events, despite these hunger strikes, despite the signature by more than 28,000 citizens, under the label "We are Belgium too", of a petition handed down yesterday to the Secretary of State, do you persist in this way, as if these hundreds, these thousands of men, women and children, were simply invisible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, this is a few hundred metres away. My colleague Maxime Prévot and I come back. A few minutes ago, we came out of the church of Beguinage. I know the request was made to you. I really invite you to go there, even in complete discretion, to see the dramatic situation there. That's 15 hospitalizations a day. They are people who are in a very degraded physical and mental state with a hope that they still feed, that of being able to exist as mere citizens. They have stays of five, ten, fifteen or even twenty years in the territory as well as training in their pocket. They've integrated. They have families. It is indecent that we cannot, that you cannot respond to their requests. I beg you. I'm asking you. We have to find a solution. These people are in complete disarray. I would also like to ask you what solutions the government intends to put in place to ensure that these people regain dignity. Nor do we want collective regulation. We want clear criteria and that it is no longer the Prince's responsibility. We want an independent commission to deal with these matters, whether it is not at the right time or not with an opinion of an administration and ultimately with a secretary of state. We just want these people to be able to live in dignity. What will the government do to respond to these distress situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u10	Colleagues, there are 150,000 illegals in our country. This is the result of decades of refusal to pursue a sound return policy. Four hundred of them have now decided to go on hunger strike. Those who are guilty are clear. Firstly, these are the left-wing parties, some of which are part of your government. They encourage those illegals to go on hunger strike by suggesting collective or individual regularisation. Equally guilty are the previous governments that held the collective regularisation rounds which since then encouraged another 150 000 illegal immigrants to stay in Belgium pending a further round of collective regularisation. The final culprit is you, Prime Minister, because you have had your Secretary of State and your left-wing coalition partners contradict each other all the time without giving a clear signal that we will not be blackmailed. That is why, Mr De Croo, I am asking the following questions. Are you prepared to say here in full clarity and in particular to your left-wing and French-speaking coalition partners that under no circumstances can there be a new round of collective regulation, even if it is camouflaged under a cover of large-scale individual regularisations? Will you instruct your competent government members to stop the hunger strike and arrest and secure the illegals involved in closed return centres until they have effectively left the Belgian territory? Finally, what will the government do to stop the further growth of illegal immigrants and to drastically increase the return of illegal immigrants? What about the implementation of the Master Plan on Closed Return Centres? After all, I question you and your government colleagues almost every week and I never get a specific answer. Now, let's get this straight. Finally send out the signal that we will not let ourselves be blackmailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u11	Prime Minister, l'histoire se répète. In 2000 and 2009, there were two one-off regularisations, each thanks to Open Vld, first under Mr Verhofstadt and then under Mrs Turtelboom. The result was, for example, that in 2007 there was already a tenfold increase in the number of commuters among the new Belgians and that the number of migrants in the population increased from 10 to 17 % over 20 years. On 1 January 2021 there were 2,041,000 regularised first-year migrants in Belgium. In the meantime, the cost of migration has risen to 2.2 % of our GDP, i.e. EUR 11 billion per year. I say that because we are a migratory country. The problem lies not with the population, who no longer wants migrants; the problem lies with the return policy, the problem lies with the fact that outlawed foreigners should not return. They get a note, keep it in their pockets or tear it up, and they disappear into illegality. What happens then? History Repeats [[.]] I see Mr Dewael, who was dealing with hunger strikes in 2008. The same applies to Mrs De Block in 2012 and Mr Francken in 2014. These hunger strikes are always organized by the left-wing church in Belgium, with the help of the church community and the gutters. Every time, our people get blacked out. That's where it is. I like the attitude of Secretary of State Mahdi in the matter: one does not give in to blackmail. What is the government's attitude, however? What is the attitude of the arsonists in the government, Ecolo and Green, who always set the place on fire? Fourteen days ago, a minister asked for a new law on residence. He was flogged back by your government partners. Minister, admitting to the hunger strikers' demands is an insult to the legalized, an invitation to further abuse and an embarrassment to the officials responsible for handling the files. What is the government's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u12	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, today we are discussing undocumented people. When you talk about people without papers, it's not something abstract. We're talking about the workers you meet on the yards, we're talking about the waiter that serves you a drink on a terrace, we're talking about the vegetable dealer you buy your vegetables from. These workers are part of our society and contribute to our economy. They pay their rent, consume and yet they do not enjoy any rights, any social protection. They are called upon when they are needed, as if to renovate the Arts-Loi station – undocumented people have worked there – yet they have no social recognition. This hypocrisy has consequences: these people are overexploited. We pay them up to 5 euros an hour, when we pay them! I know people who are promised a salary of 1,000 euros and who are given 300 or 400 euros at the end of the month. And they can't even file a complaint! This situation, like all workers, has worsened with the health crisis. In this context, a broad front has been formed with intellectuals, university professors, rectors, the world of associations, trade union organizations to support them in this difficult situation and to ask for clear and objective regularization criteria. These claims received 26,000 signatures of support from civil society. Secretary of State, even within your government, parties like the PS or Ecolo have risen to ask for a solution to this situation. I encourage and support them in this process. I heard you say in the Flemish press that the PTB was behind this hunger strike. This shows your lack of knowledge of the file and the terrain. Mr Secretary of State, you know very well that hunger strike is not the first way the PTB advocates for action. Yet you said the opposite. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, when you talk about hunger strikes and people who sew their mouths shut, you do so with caution. It concerns people who have been living on the ground for many years in an impossible and particularly difficult situation. They're being sent from the locker to the wall. That's what you've been through as Secretary of State. When you've been through it yourself, it's always different. Mrs De Block and Mr Dewael have been there. It's a recurring phenomenon. It's about people who don't have hope anymore, who are desperate. They are the hopeless of our society. That's what happens when you're human. I understand the situation in which Mr Mahdi is in. I would also like to express my support for him. I've been there several times. Someone on hunger strike once committed suicide. I was devastated by that, as a human being. That's what gets you, of course. You are witnessing this yourself, Mr Mahdi. You've only just begun and it's already price. The N-VA Group therefore certainly shows understanding and support. I do not have a question for Mr Mahdi, but for the Prime Minister. The problem in this file is that there is constantly friendly fire from one's own government. The PS, Ecolo and Green say that there should be clear criteria, that this should be laid down in the law, that there should be other procedures, that they should be collectively regulated, because that is what is in their programme. That, of course, means that false hope is constantly being rekindled and that these people keep it up. It's been 40 days. The hunger strikers under Mrs. De Block were on hunger strike for over a hundred days. That's three months left. That is, of course, the problem. The only way to stop this is to send a clear signal from the government that the position expressed by Mr Mahdi is the position of the government, and no other position. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a hunger strike is always a human tragedy. The government is calling for a halt to this hunger strike. Mr Francken, there are a number of your colleagues here who have also been confronted with this. Mr Dewael once called it the calluses on his soul. You are very clear about what human drama this is and how difficult it is. However, we must also be very clear. However dramatic a hunger strike may be, it is not something that policy can determine. The policy we are pursuing is a policy based on international agreements and agreements between the parties within this government. I would just like to quote the coalition agreement: 'Our country is striving for a correct approach to asylum and migration. We have a humane policy by offering protection to people they need, but also through a firm return policy." So the balance is there. It is a human approach, a transparent approach, while being firm; but without manhood, without using this file to try to raise one group against another. But also, it is a matter of enforcing the decisions that are taken. This means that the government is fully committed to an individual approach, to individual guidance. The only way to look at files is by file, given the specificity and vulnerability of each person. Such a thing cannot be laid down in criteria or in a law, which must be able to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. No one has asked, but I would like to make it clear that there can be no collective treatment of such dossiers, since individual humanity is baked in them. There can therefore be no collective regulation. That is the approach of the mind, but also the approach of the heart. That combination of mind and heart is the way the competent administration, the Foreign Office, and the Secretary of State handle every file. It is therefore important, in my view, that the DVZ and the Secretary of State continue to deal with every dossier and issue opinions on it. A return journey is based on continuous, sustained, close and human support, which is developed for illegal residents. This accompaniment combines extensive support with regular monitoring. Those are elements of the coalition agreement. That is also the approach that this government has always put forward. We must be able to pursue a humane policy in this matter, but it must also be a correct one. The moment when decisions that have been taken cannot be complied with is actually taking down the core of humanity, because then one is unfair to those who have complied with the rules. In my view, it is very clear that compliance with decisions is directly linked to the core of what we want to achieve, namely a humane policy towards people who are in very difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u15	[[Colleagues, Mr De Smet, I heard you when you said that you should not be blind, and that you should see people without papers.]] I don't know how many secretaries of state have already taken the time to discuss with the undocumented. That is what we have done in recent weeks and months. We've had dialogues at the firm, the VUB or other places. We discuss with people some of the issues and frustrations that drive them, including the fact that they wait far too long before they have a response to a request for regularization. This is a relevant question to be answered. I am also personally concerned, of course, like everyone else, about the current situation. I believe that no one receives more images than I do, or sees more people personally informing me of the medical situation in which the undocumented are in. I fear the medical consequences for the hunger strikers and I understand that they are in a very precarious situation. But this does not justify an ad hoc and non-structural policy, and it includes more favourable measures for people who have decided to start a hunger strike or worse, to sew their lips. The procedures must be the same for each other. I read a carte blanche in which we asked for specific treatment for people on a hunger strike. This is not the way to solve problems. We need a structural response to the situation, especially when we know what happened in 2000 and 2009. As far as I am concerned, this reinforces me in the idea that ad hoc responses are not the right answers. We therefore need a structural solution and not a collective regularisation, neither permanent nor temporary. I want to be clear in that, because it is my duty not to give false hope. It is not always the easiest message to give to someone who had hoped to build a life here. Not always and not everyone can do that. Then it is not easy for someone to say: 'Sorry, but in your case it will not work'. It is my duty to be able to clarify this. It is also my duty to identify the possibilities that exist in this country, and perhaps also in this Parliament. There are a lot of opportunities to migrate here. There are the existing asylum procedures. There's labour migration. There's study migration. Last week it was approved in this Parliament that someone who graduate here will have a year to look for work. We don't say that person: you've graduated and you won't find a job, too bad, back to your country. We're giving these people a search year. There's family reunification. There's medical regularization. There is the protection status for victims of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. The status of unaccompanied minor exists. These existing migration channels all have clear criteria and clear agreements, which we need to improve. By this I mean above all that they will be given an effective response as soon as possible. That, too, is one of the reasons why we are strengthening staff in order to provide people with a faster response. And yes, to ensure that 9a remains an exception procedure, and that even a number of categories have to be removed from it. The status of people who are not recognised in any country, the stateless, is stated in the government agreement: there too we want to ensure a structural solution. I repeat that transforming the 9bis procedure into a new legal migration channel with criteria does not seem to me to be a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u16	In the short term, it is important that the hunger strike stops. That is a concern that we all share. That is why I hope that we all preserve serenity. I may not have to point fingers at groups, but I can definitely point fingers at people. There are people on the premises who throw oil on the fire every day, day after day. That's gotta stop. After all, we are playing with human lives. That is why my message is sometimes very clear and needs to be clear, because I am concerned about all the people who are in that situation today. So I will continue to consult, also with the VUB and the ULB, where people are staying today. I made the proposal to create a neutral zone where people have the right information. Sometimes I get the question of who those hunger strikers are. I'd like to tell you. That is why there is a need for a neutral zone, where people can get information and where we can explain very clearly the procedures in force in this country and point out that they must be complied with. I therefore hope that this neutral zone can be established so that we can properly guide asylum seekers to the right procedures. In many cases this will mean a return procedure. However, we can only do this by means of a well-thought-out policy, by means of a restrictive policy and not by means of the policy of the past, when an A4 was simply given with the order to leave the country, after which the responsibility was completely transferred to the asylum seeker. We want to help those concerned re-integrate into their country of origin and find a solution for them. If we do not do so, we will allow illegal residence and create a policy of tolerance in relation to illegal residence. That is the pressing policy that we stand for, which we work on every day and for which I hope there will be full support across party boundaries. I hope, however, that there will be full support, that the problem will be stopped, that no oil will be thrown on the fire and that we will work together to find a human but also a right and correct solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u17	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your answers that have the merit of clarity and frankness. You will not come out of an iota of the 9bis government agreement except the question of stateless persons that you mentioned in the government agreement. This has the merit of being frank, but it will obviously disappoint the main stakeholders and their supporters. Prime Minister, you have described this policy as a firm and humane one. I don't know if you realize that these are exactly the qualifiers that the previous Swedish government used for its migration policy. I invite you to reflect on the fact that this may not be enough. You said you had to work on a case by case basis, file by file but without criteria. I can't understand that logic. Let us imagine for a moment that the tax administration proceeds in this way! Of course, we're still working on file by file. That is not why there are no criteria. There's always one way or another. More pragmatically, what are we going to do? Will we start detaining and expelling between 100 and 150,000 people? We all know that this is not possible. There is a need for more justice in flows – in terms of economic migration, there is a way to work together on a series of things – but there is also a need for more justice for those people who are there. Don't just be firm and human! Please, just be fair!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u18	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You say you want to work structurally. I invite you to jump on the occasion to pursue a structural and transparent policy with criteria. This does not imply a comprehensive processing of cases, Prime Minister. This implies considering each case individually on the basis of defined, transparent and known criteria. You still realize that there are people there who have been staying in our country for nine years because the proceedings have been going on for nine years! The State has a duty to make these regularizations, as this is the result of its fact. Of course, things are different today because additional means have been made available for the examination of files. But this is about the past. At the time, that was not the case. Today, people have been living in our country for nine or ten years because they are still on trial. We have a duty to examine their situation under the eye of integration. Even if you have cast doubt on this, I hope that all the partners of the majority agree (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u19	Those who migrate to Belgium, even if they do so illegally, will receive 101 ways to apply for residence papers. On the basis of objective criteria, which are, by the way, far too lax in Belgium, it is then decided whether these residence permits are granted or not. If that application is rejected, it should be obvious that the people concerned should return to their country of origin, and that this should be done by holding them in a closed return centre pending their repatriation. But what happens in Belgium? They are not locked in a closed return center, no, they are given a piece of paper with the order to leave the territory, which of course is simply ignored. Those illegals know that they simply have to wait a few years and that there will be mass regularizations again and then they will still get papers. Prime Minister, as long as you do not get rid of this mischief, as long as you do not expel all these illegal immigrants, you are partly responsible for the fact that in Belgium 150,000 illegal immigrants are wandering around our cities and that hunger strikes are currently taking place in our capital. Finally get rid of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u20	Gentlemen, I think you're playing a little hide-and-seek and humiliating the civil service. All these people have gone to trial. I'd like to hear you say file by file. File by file is done. File by file has been abused. The whole court, with injury lawyers and project lawyers, or I don't know, used that case to keep these people here for as long as possible, for years, and then blackmail them with hunger strikes to enforce legality. File-by-file investigation is done. You shouldn't say that now. You speak of the proper observance of the sentences. There it is. Whoever's finished must be deported, or must return to his country. Do this. I'm from the region of the transmigrants. Same problem. They don't even want to apply for asylum. They wander around here for years and years, and when they get caught by the police, they still get buttercakes and a cup of coffee, a report has to be made, and they leave again. Until the next trip. There are transmigrants who have been arrested 19 times. And the case continues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, you are talking about the need to find a structural solution. That's very good. However, you do not wish to develop clear and objective criteria. It is therefore contradictory, since a structural solution is based on a framework defining criteria from which a policy of regularisation is developed. In short, you contradict yourself by advocating a structural solution, while refusing a framework of clear criteria. After the various interventions, I just wanted to remind you that when we talk about undocumented people, we are talking about human beings, people, workers. This policy, which refuses to apply clear and objective criteria, maintains their disarray and despair and can lead to dramatic situations such as the one experienced today. Mr Secretary of State, this cannot continue. You have to take your responsibilities. If you want a structural solution, it requires a framework setting clear and objective criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u22	Prime Minister, you say that the government is united behind Secretary of State Mahdi. However, no member of the majority has tabled a question and I have seen little applause on the left-wing progressive side of your government. All right, we'll wait and see in the next few hours. Something will have to happen, something will have to come out of the bus. We'll keep an eye on that. You advocate a humane and correct policy with structural solutions. Well, I don't believe in the current model anymore. You're stuck in a paradigm that can't work. If it is not resolved now, the next government will face hunger strikes and illegality again. You'll never get the return right, that's the problem. With an order to leave the territory, it continues, because a lot of countries just don't take them back. Borders remain open as long as the right of residence is possible on European territory after an illegal journey. That has to be stopped. Choose the approach of Australia, Denmark and Great Britain. Be wise and go to another, a new paradigm, a paradigmashift. That's the future. I wish you all the courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u23	Mr Minister, you know that, for many months or even many years, emotion and anger have been growing in the four corners of Belgian territory, and especially in our rural areas, with the prospect of seeing the years grow bigger and disappear, as banking agencies, public services, and now, at a frantic pace, ATMs. The situation has been of such concern to all the elected representatives that this has been the subject of specific debates in the Committee on the Economy, which I have attended, and during which I and other colleagues have not failed to raise the awareness of the banking community of the lack of sense - from a social point of view - of this rationalisation of the number of distributors in our territory, and probably not from a financial point of view. We have denounced the risk that the most remote areas, the rural areas, which sometimes have an unfortunate tendency to worry so little about in this House, will once again pay for it. We were many to be astonished, and perhaps even a bit satisfied, to discover today that one of its operators, Batopin, not to mention it, acknowledged that there was, as we had feared and denounced, a bias in his approach. If averages are always pleasant to look at, when a more territorialised analysis is made, territorial discrimination persists and especially in the most rural areas. For the French-speaking part, these are certainly the provinces of Luxembourg and Namur. These would be the first to suffer the impact. I would like to know, beyond the meeting that is already on your agenda, what initiatives you intend to take to ensure that all Belgians are treated fairly and that there is no double penalty for rural life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u24	Madam President, Mr Prévot, I thank you for your question, which allows me to take stock of this problem, which is dear to us in general and particularly in the provinces we know well and which are particularly dear to us. As you know, honourable Member, on several occasions, my staff and I met with the operators of Batopin and the other initiative taken to streamline the number of ticket distributors. We have met them on several occasions because, like you, we shared the concerns of a large part of the population, in particular the population of rural areas, with regard to their plans for distribution, but above all with regard to the reduction of the number of ticket distributors throughout the national territory. Unfortunately, our concerns have recently been reinforced by the figures and information provided by the National Bank of Belgium in the framework of the National Retail Payment Committee working group. On the basis of this information, figures and distribution map, it is clear that the Batopin project will result in a significant decrease in the number of distributors throughout the country, but especially in rural areas and particularly in the provinces of Namur and Luxembourg. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. That is why, as soon as I had this information in my possession, I convened a meeting with the Batopin project promoters. I also told them that it was absolutely essential, as I was also able to say here in this House, that the representatives of the Cities and Municipalities of the three regions of this country be involved in this process. There can be no economy of dialogue, of discussion, of coordination with the three Unions of the Cities and Municipalities of this country. This meeting is therefore also on the agenda. For me, this is an absolutely essential prerequisite for the project to continue but above all to be reviewed. Like you and a number of other parliamentarians, I will pay particular attention to ensuring that the distribution of bank distributors is fair throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. "Inacceptable", "indispensable" are the qualifiers that you have used and to which I subscribe to underline all the vigilance work that you intend to carry out. You have all the more time to do so with vigour because you know that you can count on a broad parliamentary base in this matter, far beyond the majority. I think that this is an essential issue, and we cannot constantly complain about the rise of extremes, of the rise of populisms when, at the same time, what favours them, what makes the bed of this popular anger, is in particular the increasing desertification of the territories, and especially of those who are not urban poles. It is indeed in rural areas that it becomes more complicated to find a doctor, that it becomes more complicated to find a banking agency or that it becomes more complicated to have an appropriate mobile telephone network. Let's not even talk about fibre optics, other healthcare providers or public transport. We can't complain tomorrow after there's been so many signals. Believe well in the CDH's watchful watchdog role to defend, more than ever, rurality. We have always done so, we will continue to do so, and be our ally in this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who is unable to deal with a bank card and who often uses cash payments is paying for it. If you want to look at your own account, you pay for it. We have often had the debate here, especially after the Family Union published a study a year ago which showed that 22% of the families questioned were not in favour of digitisation. That's because either they can't pay for a smartphone or they can't handle it. That is the reality. With digitisation, services will also be reduced: the counters, the banking offices, the vending machines. For example, in ten years we see a decrease in the number of bank offices by 40%. The banks then constantly call for customer service and service, but if we are honest, it amounts to a flat saving on the hood of those who are not in line with the digital trend. By the way, these people are being double punished, because they pay more for less services. Minister, if you think it is about a small group of people, then you are wrong. For example, it is not just about senior citizens, but also about the most vulnerable who have an empty account at the end of the month and who pay EUR 7.26 each time a transaction is refused. At a time! Minister, you are very concerned about the subject and you have already made a number of efforts to find solutions. There would be a solution in the making. I would have liked to have heard from you about the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u27	Madam President, Minister, as you know, whether we are a fan of e-banking or the paper version, we can no longer dispense with banking services. We all need them to check our balance, make transfers, check that we have sent them in time and that we will not have to pay any reminder fees. However, banks continue to increasingly distinguish between "normal" citizens and those who do not have access to the Internet. They prefer their digital customers to the detriment – as we all know – of our seniors who fear using these applications. Minister, they are right: when we see the number of scams on the internet, the number of phone calls we receive by warning us that the communication will be recorded while asking us our account number and our code – supposedly to check what the problems are – we find that it can't last any longer. Nevertheless, banks have chosen to favour all their digital customers and continue to tax. I can provide you with several examples. ING decided that the withdrawal of money from its own network would now cost 50 cents. BNP Paribas Fortis has just launched its big survey, the result of which we already know: it will warn customers that if they do not switch to digital, they will be taxed even more. Other banks also want to remove the impression of account extracts. We've finally talked about the ticket machines. Batopin just wants to divide. What will our small communes, our small towns, our small villages be able to do so that their citizens can withdraw money? Minister, you come from a very beautiful region. For my part, I was born in Doische. Should we get some money from Givet, France? As it will be cheaper there, will our banks tax us? This is a real problem of substance. It is therefore more than time to put the points on the i. As minister in charge of this sector, you must impose on them a universal banking service, based on reasonable rates and applicable to all customers – digital or not. Similarly, you need to put fundamental pressure on banks so that we can find ticket distributors everywhere – both for our citizens and for local commerce. We keep saying that we need to promote the short circuit. In all our villages and small towns, the inhabitants will be deprived of bank note machines. As Mr Prévot pointed out, given the absence of the Internet, credit card transfers will not be possible. That can no longer continue, Minister! It's more than time to whistle at the end of recreation. So we're counting on you to find solutions. What is the status of your negotiations with the sector? We know that a large meeting is planned. What message will you convey to him on this occasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Depraetere, Mr Bayet, as you have pointed out, along with a growing digitalisation of banking services, basic banking rates have only increased in recent years. You cited the latest examples, but you could have mentioned others. Of course, this is not the case since it makes part of the population of second zone customers. This is about customers of an essential service, i.e. being able to access his bank account and manage it on a daily basis. That is necessary in our lives. It is essential to ensure that people who do not use computers and smartphones can continue to manage their accounts and have access to normal banking services. As you have pointed out, this is an important problem for the most vulnerable; we are thinking of the elderly, Mr Bayet, but not only, because, as Mrs Depraetere said, the percentage of the population concerned is wider than that. We must therefore put an end to the improper increase in bank charges. It is essential that everyone has access to high quality financial services at a reasonable price. Otherwise, there is a real risk that inequality will increase in our society. That is why I intend to set up a universal banking service. As you know, this is reflected in the government agreement and in my policy statement. A universal banking service is in fact an all-inclusive package of basic banking services, the services needed to manage an account on a daily basis for people who do not have access to digital services for a variety of reasons. This minimum banking service will include a minimum number of paper transfers and a minimum number of cash withdrawals to distributors. Negotiations are under way. We are in the process of finalising this agreement, which I hope, together with my colleague the Minister of Finance and my colleague the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, will be able to finalize in the coming days. We hope to be able to land before July 21. That is what we have set ourselves. Since we are in the final phase of negotiations, you will understand that I do not tell you today what points remain to be decided. I do not wish to go into the final issues. I think it is important to be able to give this opportunity to negotiation. I also consulted the Belgian Competition Authority to ensure that universal banking is in line with competition law. In addition, it is important to prevent the universal banking service from creating counterproductive effects by increasing the prices of services that would not be included in the protocol. The aim is to provide all banking services necessary for financial management at a reasonable price. I therefore hope to be able to conclude these negotiations by 21 July. If the negotiations do not succeed, if we face a blocking of the banking sector on this issue, we will have no choice but to go through a bill. I don't hope so. I still favour the way of negotiation, the way of the protocol. I still hope that this agreement will be possible before 21 July. But, as I have just said, I also do not exclude, in the event of failure, the more traditional government or parliamentary route.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u29	Madam President, for the record, digitisation is obviously not a bad thing, not for you, not for me, not for many people. What you say, Minister, is very important. At least everyone must be able to manage and manage their banking business. That is, of course, the essence. I'm going back in time. At the initiative of Minister Freya Van den Bossche, there has once been some kind of protocol or arrangement between the banks and the government. That had its effect at the time. But we also saw that banks quickly looked for a way out. As soon as one had an agreement on one cost, one was looking for another way to increase the price. You have said something very important, namely that we must ensure that there are no counterproductive effects. We must also ensure that it agrees on the full range of services provided by a bank. I'm glad you confirmed that. I hear there's gonna be an agreement soon. That's what we're hoping for. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u30	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I would like to encourage you to continue your efforts to remind banks that they also have a societal responsibility. I would remind you that, as a result of mismanagement, we have been forced to save them with billions of dollars. It was citizens' money. At some point, they must do the same and ensure their societal role. As has been said, digitization is not a problem in itself, but there is no reason why people who do not own a computer, who do not master the digital environment, should pay more for their banking than others. It must be noted that the digital divide is a real problem. This has been the case for vaccination, and it is also the case for banking operations. These people who are excluded from digital services have the right, like others, to access affordable banking services. I therefore hope that you will soon reach an agreement on universal banking services, especially since the first agreement on universal service was reached under the aegis of a socialist. A second agreement would make us even more proud! As for access to distributors, let me take back what I have read in the press. A Batopin official said that we would have to learn from the impact of the pandemic on the use of cash. Madam President, it is as if SNCB, taking into account the impact of the pandemic, decides to divide the number of trains by two. It's time to stop making fun of the world! I really count on you, Minister, to make it happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u31	Minister, it is always a pleasure to meet with you so that we can talk with you about this reform that is very dear to us, both to you and to me. This week is just a good time because the consultation work that you have initiated with your colleagues, Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Clarinval, is completing its first phase, that of the consultation with the federations, a consultation that we have welcomed and which we have followed by far of course but with great interest. In the first echoes and documents available, I found constructive, relevant, ambitious, interesting elements. I must admit, however, that I have heard and read things that worry me a little. As a reminder, Minister, we have made a commitment with this government to shift from a control logic to a logic of support. We also said that we would recognize and finance invisible work, daily work, the work that workers do every day without earning a euro. Finally, we said that we would preserve the acquired rights. I told you to be worried. I also mean that the sector is a bit divided. It would be a real shame if the outcome of a first desire for concerted action were to divide these workers. I need to be reassured and I think I'm not the only one. Do we always share the same objectives, Minister? For us, it's obvious. What about you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u32	Madam Chairman of the Committee, thank you. Be aware that it is also a pleasure for me to meet you, to discuss this topic in particular as well as on others. It is true that this is a theme that animates our commissions perhaps a little less than some other themes but always with the will to bring constructive elements, to take into account the realities of the artistic sectors since it is a multi-faceted universe. So far, it has not been sufficiently taken into account in its realities, in its specificities, in its difficulties which, for the most part, have been highlighted by the crisis that we have just been going through. Indeed, as you said, we have begun a concerted effort. I will go even further: this first phase was mainly co-construction, since the actors on the ground, grouped into a technical working group, took on their responsibilities. They have taken on the responsibility, which is not a simple thing, of putting proposals on the table, with the risk of annoying or frustrating each other. They have taken this responsibility and risk, and I would like to commend them for that. They didn't count their hours. Some 15 meetings have been required in order to reach this first phase of preparatory work, and I really want to thank them for that. We are now entering a second phase, with a work in full transparency, since the result of this consultation, of this co-construction, has been put online and is subject to comments, positive and negative criticisms, and requests for amendments. This was planned from the start in the work done with my excellent colleagues, Franck Vandenbroucke and David Clarinval. Today we are entering another phase, that of the public debate on the basis of this first draft. A third phase will start very soon with consultation with the social partners. The final phase will, of course, be the government's arbitration, with a draft bill, a bill and the work that will be done here in this Parliament. This work remains to be done, but an important step has just been taken. I have no doubt that the objectives that are yours, and which are also mine, to ensure that this status as a worker in the arts sector is a real status that protects and encourages creation, is a reality tomorrow. I have no doubt that with each other, we will continue the work to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u33	Minister, thank you. As you said, it is a historic reform in a historic moment. We are emerging from this crisis and the sector has paid enough for the crisis in recent months. Let us get out of this accounting logic that could eventually be established during the development of this new reform, and avoid dividing the sector. Let us preserve the acquired rights. I say it for the first time and I will say it for the second time: let us preserve the acquired rights. It will be essential for us. Let us not fear this reform which will ultimately cost, economically, relatively little, but will really make us gain a lot humanly. I dare say: live this reform of the status of artist! And even live the cultural revolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u34	Minister, today is the first day of vacation for many people. This always raises problems; this year, for example, the corona passport and its control. However, to my great surprise, customs officers at the airport have also decided to take a trade union action. Moreover, it was announced that it would not do so; one day a week would be stopped, just at a time when many thousands would like to enjoy a deserved leave. The action is justified with the desire to negotiate better work planning. Who could be against that? In addition, there is a need for additional risk premiums and more flexible pension measures. You have 3,300 employees at the General Administration of Customs and Excise. As a port operator in the gateway to Europe, I have to say that these employees play an essential role, not only in the control but also in the collection of taxes and excise duties and in the fight against terrorism and illegal organisations. I value their work and I understand that a lot of people had a lot more work because of Brexit and the covid crisis. Let us be honest, however, at the airport there will not have been too much extra in the last 12 months. For some, an action day means that one day is not working or at least slower. I don't want people doing that at the airport. Today thousands of people leave, families with fathers and mothers who have doubled in recent months. They have given the best of themselves in these corona times and are now, rightly, eager for rest. However, if they want to get out for a while, they will be held hostage. That is unheard of at a time when normal life is resumed. Minister, what are your views on the actions? How will you react? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u35	Our customs services have shown an incredible commitment over the past year, a year with very challenging challenges. They have arranged everything for the Brexit, from preparation to final execution, to the tips. They also experienced a huge increase in e-commerce and the consequences of our country becoming the logistical heart for the distribution of mouth masks, alcohol gels and now vaccines. All this became possible thanks to their commitment. Everything went perfectly thanks to our customs services. Today, of course, we all long-awaited for freedom. Everyone is longing for the holiday that will bring that long-awaited freedom, and that is why I honestly admit that I find it difficult to understand the action of customs officers, all the more so because I do not think the impact of their actions is in proportion to the questions that are on the table today, to ask where we have continued to work over the last few months, weeks and days to come up with solutions. During my recent consultation with the trade unions, I asked our administration and the customs management team to find solutions and propose solutions to the questions that live with our customs officers. Today, I call on customs officers to continue the constructive consultations we have had over the last few months and weeks. After all, this constructive dialogue leads to results. For example, the uniforms premium requested has been approved and the file on arrears of pension rights, which has been going on for many years, is going to be resolved this year. Think also of our additional recruitments, of course in the light of the Brexit, and of our investments in the 100 % scanning project. We are indeed investing not only in scanners but also in additional staff to operate those scanners. It is therefore important to realise that we are indeed looking for solutions. We also want to continue to work in this way: step by step, constructive and without harming innocent travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u36	Minister, I am pleased that you share my analysis and that you are working on solutions. It is important that the thousands of families who wait after months want to take a vacation, no longer, after a few meters on the tarmac and with the plane in sight, be harassed by customs officers, who would better deal with their expectations and demands in a different way. Do the unions with these actions think they can win a popularity prize? These actions undermine rather the support they need to defend the interests of the staff. I am therefore pleased that you will also convey to them the message you have brought here. I hope that the dialogue will produce results quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u37	Minister, since June, the mobile application of the KBC Insurer Bank has been offering its clients the opportunity to have their vaccination certificate, the results of their PCR test or their medical prescription, within reach of the Helena platform. If access to information about the results of PCR tests or vaccination certifications is very important, personal data - and in particular health data - are very sensitive, you will agree, and must be protected as fully and strictly as possible. The Insurer Bank states that the customer must identify separately and that there is therefore no exchange of data with the banking environment. However, we have the right to question the sharing and access of medical data with a financial institution that also offers its own insurance products. The Helena platform itself is a private organization. Therefore, the service as such is not free because it is the practitioners, for the Helena platform, who pay for the implementation of the service. Mobile and banking applications are very practical in our everyday lives. They allow for non-contact payments and allow the customer access to a private platform. In this case, it is a private platform that processes health data. This does not seem appropriate to us. Of course, every effort must be made to combat the pandemic as effectively as possible, and that is what you are working on. However, it does not seem appropriate to associate health and banking in the fight against the pandemic, even though medical data, it is said, are protected. The purpose of the application's creative business is to create profit, and the service offered to users by the website masanté.be does not have this objective and is accessible to everyone. What do you think of this sharing of medical data through a bank application? Do you confirm that the private company Healthconnect has received government approval to access myhealth.be data? It's Helena's platform. If so, on what legal basis and for what purpose? Does the company have a licence to access the medical data of all citizens or only those who activate the KBC application? Are there any guarantees as to the confidentiality of these medical data, both externally and externally to the financial institution? What is their degree of reliability? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u38	Madam President, I thought we were going to combine the questions, but if you wish, I can give an immediate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u39	This is only a question from Mrs Marghem and is addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u40	The idea was that, perhaps, there were still elements in the questions addressed to Ms. Verlinden that fell within my purview. But don't worry, I'll answer it. Mrs Marghem, it is essential that citizens can find their digital covid certificate in the simplest way possible. You have to be clear: the unique source of certificates is Digitial Vlaanderen and there are authorised applications that can display them after authentication of the citizen. These applications are masante.be, myhealthviewer.be, burgerprofiel.beet, helena.care and the covidsafe.be mobile app. This last application is the only source that can duplicate the certificate on the personal device of the citizen concerned, for his personal comfort and to be able to display the certificate by being offline. Other accesses like helena.care can only display the certificate but they do not keep the information. These opportunities for consultation have been approved by the steering committee of the implementation project where all the authorities concerned are represented and by the Interfederal Testing and Tracing Committee. Helena.care is a platform developed by Corilus which is a developer of medical software for healthcare providers. Helena.care is specifically intended to give citizens access to elements of their medical records and, therefore, Helena.care is directly integrated with the single source of covid digital certificates. The KBC bank has made a link to Helena.care in its application so that its customers can access their certificate, but KBC has not requested to be able to publish the certificates by integration with the authentic source of the certificates. I believe this is an excellent initiative and we also encourage other websites to place a link to portals where the certificate can be accessed by the citizen after authentication by the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. The fundamental element is patient authentication. From then on, a patient could even have several access routes, notably through Helena, and if he or she is a customer at KBC, for example via this application, provided that he or she has authenticated his or her data. On the other hand – and this is a good thing – they can only be duplicated on one element, in accordance with the authorization that has been given. I believe that the citizens who see the platforms multiply need to know exactly what will be done with their data, especially the most sensitive ones. With this element, they know that when they authenticate their data, they can personally dispose of it in an open, easy and practical manner and that they can only be consulted or imported by themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u42	Minister, Minister, today is 1 July, the first day of holiday and traditionally the day when many people leave on holiday. That's no different this year. What is different is the way we travel. What we failed to achieve last year is today a European strategy to travel corona-safely thanks to the introduction of the European corona passport. Although the corona passport was announced a few weeks ago, unfortunately we have to note that on the day of its entry into force there are still a lot of uncertainties, primarily for travellers themselves, because all European countries have their own rules and conditions. Within the countries there are still differences in the regions, depending on whether they are coloured green, orange or red on the European map. So it takes a lot of effort for travellers to find out exactly what is needed to travel. There are stories of families today who see their holidays falling into the water because apparently some document was not in order. That can't be the intention. We do not know what is going on in airports either. Yesterday there was confusion about who had to check the corona passport. In addition, there were also problems with digital scanning of the QR codes. The code would not provide correct information as to whether or not a passenger is in order for the destination. That is why visual checks were required, which is absurd when people are asked to download the CovidSafeBE app first. Minister, Minister, how could these uncertainties arise? What will you do to solve these childhood diseases with the corona passport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u43	Minister, Minister, the European Covid Digital Certificate comes into force today. It was long overdue, and we hope that it will work well, with the aim of facilitating the movement of people and harmonising travel rules within the European Union. We look forward to the opportunity that this certificate offers us, that is to say, to enjoy our summer holidays abroad. However, we know that the variants are looking for us and we want to avoid returning to the health situation we experienced last September. The effectiveness of this certificate is therefore fundamental. In addition to its proper functioning, documentation checks and verifications will also be required. The certificate collects several identification data, as well as information that identifies the health status of each individual in relation to the pandemic. These data are fed by the different systems established in the three regions of the country. However, the transmission of this information and its compatibility seem to be rather complicated, sometimes involving manual encoding. As far as air transport is concerned, it is the companies which must check whether the candidates for travel carry all the necessary documents. However, it would appear that they do not have the right to access their passengers' personal data. The situation appears to be the same with regard to the European certificate. As a result, airline employees will ask their customers if they have a certificate but cannot verify its content. Therefore, minister, minister, can you confirm to us that all steps are being taken to ensure that checks on documents useful for departures and holiday returns are carried out in an efficient and orderly manner? What about coordination between the various actors involved, including the federal police and airlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u44	Minister, Minister, a carefree holiday after one and a half years of effort and sacrifice is what people have been looking forward to for months. Brussels Airport expects 1 million passengers this year. In order to do so safely, the government has rightly decided to provide for free PCR tests. People are currently in hordes waiting at the test centers. That, I believe, is encouraging. Travellers clearly intend to follow the measures closely. As a government, therefore, we have a responsibility to put checks on the ground and to ensure that everything goes smoothly. However, there is a proliferation of forms that causes confusion and stress. Are you still with me? The negative test, the Passenger Locator Form, the corona certificate: it is an administrative mess that is probably necessary, but in which a cat no longer finds her boy. It is difficult to understand that the measures that are in force today are still not at 100%. Airlines are pulling the alarm. Brussels Airlines says the check-in takes four to six times longer than usual and some travelers were waiting three hours to take their plane on Zaventem, but missed their flight. If we want to avoid a new corona wave after the summer and keep the delta variant out, the controls will be extremely important, both for third country nationals and for Belgians. How can we ensure that controls are carried out quickly and quickly and what can we do to support the airlines? What measures will the government take to organise the control of the PLF of returning travellers as smoothly as possible? There will be consultation with the aviation police, with only one goal: all Belgians a carefree journey without (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u45	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, it is 1 July, finally a holiday. Many people long for this holiday period after one and a half years of corona. Today is also the day on which the European corona certificate enters into force. This makes it possible to travel smoothly within the EU, or at least that was the intention. The design was good, namely to make travel as smooth, safe and easy as possible by means of the certificate. Unfortunately, the reality is different, as is evident from reports received from Brussels Airport. Today, for example, we read the story of a family that sees his holiday to Greece fall into the water because one document was not properly completed. Greece imposes additional conditions to enter the country. Greece is not alone in this, because we see that many countries still have different rules at national level. It is precisely as if national rules are countering effective EU policies. To travel, the holidaymakers have to lay huge puzzles. Doesn't the traveller have to take another test after a full vaccination? Should the children also be tested and whether or not the test will be refunded? Does the green Flemish zone count for who takes the plane in Charleroi? There are a lot of questions. The answers are undoubtedly online somewhere, I know, but they are many different websites. An appointment for a test must be made via minehealth.be, a PLF document must be completed via the Home Office website, the corona certificate is available via CovidSafe.be or via the app. In order to identify the measures in force in each country, the traveller must visit the website reopen.europa.eu. Mr and Madam Minister, this is not evident to many people. It worries people and we should take care of them. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u46	Madam President, I do not need to repeat it, because the questioners have already said it urgently: it is a good thing that the summer holiday has begun. I think everyone is looking forward to it, probably people in this House too. It is also good that at the start of that summer holiday we can look forward to a little more freedom and that we will be able to take advantage of it a little bit. Nevertheless, and this is not new, we must remain vigilant and cautious, partly because we see that the delta variant has a steep advance in a number of countries. There is also an increase in this variant in Belgium. We must therefore monitor the situation carefully and be able to take new measures in good time, and sometimes soon. Within the government we are considering whether additional measures are required for countries where this steep advance of the variant is taking place. The same applies to countries within the European Union. On the one hand, we naturally want to maintain the free movement of persons as much as possible, on the other hand, of course, we want to keep the variant out as much as possible. Indeed, Mrs Verhaert, we must try as much as possible to harmonise at European level in order to make it as easy as possible for citizens who wish to travel. However, we have already found that strict monitoring and follow-up is necessary in relation to so-called VOC countries, Variants Of Concern countries. With regard to enforcement and control within my competence, I can say the following. The police will make further efforts to control travellers entering airports and stations. Travellers from countries outside the European Union and the Schengen area will therefore all be checked. In addition to their usual activities, police officers will also monitor as many travellers as possible from red areas and high-risk countries. Police checks will be threefold: an identity check, a PLF check and, if required, a recent PCR test check. The latter can, since today, be replaced by the European Covid Digital Certificate. For persons who do not have the nationality of one of the countries of the European Union or their principal residence in a European country or in the Schengen area, the essential travel certificate is also checked when they arrive from a high-risk third country. This morning, during a visit to the airport police in Brussels South Charleroi Airport, I myself found that the police are carrying out these checks meticulously, even though this is an additional and complex matter, given the various documents that have been requested. Those controls are indispensable in order to prevent the further spread of the dangerous variant. Tomorrow there will also be a consultation by myself with all the partners concerned about the checks on incoming travellers. Together with the National Crisis Centre, the aviation police, as well as the airport operators and the Mobility Cabinet and the Railway Police, we will take stock of what has happened today, where we need to adjust to ensure that on the one hand we can make traffic as smooth as possible and on the other hand we can organise the flow of passengers corona securely. Limiting queues will also be important. I would like to thank all the partners who are involved in the organisation of this audit, because they are helping us to have a corona-safe summer. I'd like to wish you all a pleasant summer vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u47	Madam President, I would like to try to remove some misunderstandings. The CovidSafeBE app you have been able to download contains only facts. It says whether you have been vaccinated or not, whether you have recently taken a negative PCR test or another test and whether you have recently had covid. Those facts are on your certificates and you have them with the CovidSafeBE app. Countries conduct policies based on these facts. Madrid decides on who may travel to Spain under what conditions on the basis of those facts. Madrid's rules aren't in that app. Greece also decides on the basis of these facts, but the rules that Greece applies, of course, are not included in them either. Nor do Germany's rules. If we wanted to do that, we'd have to change the app all the time. There's only the facts in that. The countries are responsible for the policy for those who travel there. It is therefore the responsibility of the Spanish Government to inform the airlines that transport people from Brussels or Charleroi to Spain in the most efficient way about the policy pursued with these facts. At European level, there has also been an agreement on what that means. All Member States are obliged to make their policies available digitally in a single central European database by 8 July 2021 at the latest. The decision-making rules they apply must be made available digitally in the central database so that everyone, all airlines and all operators can consult that information and see what the facts on the app mean for travelling to a country. Even better, of course, is to develop an application ourselves, which we have already done. It is our country's own scanning system for those arriving to us, which allows us to read and interpret the application of those citizens. This is another, Belgian, application that allows us to see if someone who comes in with a COVIDsafe app from any country in Europe does indeed have a valid certificate that belongs to him or her. We can see the information on it in a way that allows us to decide immediately whether that person has access or not. There is therefore a distinction between looking at the facts, interpreting them, and the facts. The app only has the facts on it. We, Belgium, have ensured that our data are already available digitally in the European database. I have the impression that other countries are lagging behind. We have an application to scan the data, which anyone can download. You too, by the way. You can download that scanner and scan for yourself what is on your certificate. You'll see it turns green or red. Green, if it's valid, red if it's not valid, if you're walking around with someone else's smartphone. You will also see how these data become clear and allow you to decide whether or not someone is coming to Belgium. That's super simple. Our decision-making rules are already in the European database. We invite the other countries to do the same. The problem of people travelling to Spain or Greece is a problem that airlines have to deal with with with Madrid and Athens. We can't solve that. My colleague is doing her utmost to make this all possible, but of course we cannot solve the policy problem of Madrid or Athens. Rather we would have seen that it was all uniform. We have strongly advocated this in a European context. Today it isn't. But let us not forget that the alternative to this complicated, and fortunately digital, puzzle is staying home. We are lucky to be able to travel through this puzzle work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u48	Mr Minister, Madam Minister, thank you for the clarifications. I'm sure you'll make the necessary adjustments. I would like to endorse what our colleague has just said: the information on the European corona passport must be clear, and the system must be simple and user-friendly. It is also important that the government acts proactively. That is what the citizens, the travellers, expect from us. We must respond proactively to travel advice, especially if it is complex advice, if it is differentiated travel advice, depending on the region of a country. You said yourself, Minister, that it is the European countries themselves that determine their policies. Perhaps the information should be brought to the traveller and to the travel sector in a better way. As you said yourself: in Zaventem yesterday it was apparently not known whether travellers were allowed to leave for Spain, and whether that was decided on the basis of their place of residence or on the basis of the place in our country from which they left. That was unclear. I think we could have anticipated that. The government must be proactive, in the sense that it must make good assessments of the test capacity that will be required. Soon, construction leave will begin. Then a lot of travelers will want to get tested. We must ensure that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u49	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. We're the first day of school leave. We know that holidays are important for our citizens, especially since we have all shown resilience since the beginning of the health crisis, even though we are aware that this crisis is unfortunately not yet over. In order to fight as effectively as possible against a potential resurgence of the virus, we must do everything possible to ensure that the school year is preserved and thus avoid a possible new wave as we experienced it last autumn. In this context, not only do we hope but we are confident that all necessary measures will be taken to ensure the optimal control of our travellers. It is about the health and safety of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u50	Minister, Minister, I fully agree that we need to be vigilant and responsible, but one Belgian is already better at puzzles than the other Belgian. I therefore believe that it is up to the government to provide clear information and to unlock it in a smooth way, so that people do not have to google for hours or examine what forms and certificates they need. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that people can go on vacation carefree, without hassle, without stress and especially without cost for a missed flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u51	Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. I'm glad to hear you're both following closely. Minister, you clarified everything, but it took some time. It shows that it's complex. It is good that our country has already simplified a number of things. I'm sure this will be followed up, because we all long for a nice summer vacation. It is our job to ensure that people can go on holiday carefree and safe after this tough year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u52	Minister, all the firefighters in the country are furious about your decision to remove the possibility of the shift 24/72, i.e. the possibility of working 24 hours in a row and then recovering three days later. They are furious because they prefer this mode of operation for their family life, for the training they receive, for better stress management – many studies show this. Minister, you delete this shift 24/72 and you say it's for their own good! Firefighters aren't kids anymore! These are men and women who go to danger, who are going to save people, and you tell them it's for their own good. Stop taking them for kids! Listen to them! They tell you that this system suits them. Why do you want to change it? You say you think about their health and working conditions. You're not credible because if you think about their health, why are you asking them to work up to 67? Why is their profession not recognized as painful? In Belgium, the occupation of firefighter is not recognized as painful! Why don't you recognize cancers as occupational diseases in this sector? That would be the firefighters! All you decide is to delete 24/72. Minister, the subterfuge is clear: the goal is to reduce night shifts to reduce the wage bill! At the same time, you reduce our security! Minister, do you intend to come back to this decision and allow the firefighters themselves to decide what is the best time for them, for their working conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u53	Madam Minister, yesterday in committee, you announced your willingness to ban our firefighters from working on 24-hour shifts. I predicted to you their reaction, which soon became known. This morning we were able to read in the press that notice of a strike would be given in all areas of the country. Therefore, I must confess that I do not understand you. So you want to change a system that has proven its worth and is suitable for all its users. The 24-hour shift provides a better quality of life for firefighters by allowing them to better organize their family life and reduce their travel from home to the barracks. Minister, our firefighters are doing a difficult job: every day they risk their lives to save and defend the lives of others. It is a profession that has specific characteristics, so that it cannot be compared to any other. Our firefighters work in barracks and do it as a team. In addition, they must maintain their physical condition and undergo a great deal of training. You rely on studies that claim that the risk of work accidents would be higher in 24-hour shifts. But on the ground, in practice, that is not true, it is not true. So, minister, I invite you to read fewer studies and be more present in the field to listen to our firefighters. Minister, are you going to abandon your project, as all firefighters in our country are asking? Will you, on the other hand, allow them to choose the working regime that suits them best?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u54	Colleagues, Mr Hedebouw, it was a good theatre a few minutes ago, but to do theatre, you must first read the script and know the plot of the play. Mr Thiébaut, I am very happy to have interesting discussions in committee, but it would also be interesting to listen, because I have not taken a decision and there is no project. That is why I am astonished at the notice of strike announced following my answer to the question on the 24-hour shift for fire services - an answer I gave yesterday in committee. I can reassure you, there is no reason to worry. Let me remind you, once again, that no bill amending the Working Time Act has been prepared at this time by my firm or by the administration. This means that the current regulations remain in force with regard to relief areas and this means, in practice, that the areas currently working under a 24-hour shift system can also maintain this working regime. The circular of 24 May 2016 states that no new 24-hour structural shift can be introduced in the emergency areas. It was felt at the time, and many still think today, that the introduction of 24-hour shifts was contrary to the spirit of the Working Time Act and the application of the principle of proportionality. Furthermore, this is contrary to the European principles of proportionality as set out, inter alia, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Social Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been lively and various positions have been taken. Mr Dermagne recently pointed out to me, in another case, that it does not seem appropriate to introduce new 24-hour shifts in a structural way. The actors in the field put forward various arguments in favour of a sustainability or even an extension of the shift of 24 hours. My position is clear: nothing changes at the moment, and I will not remove the 24-hour shift as we know it. I didn't say anything else yesterday in committee. To feed into the lively debate in which you are participating today, I would like to launch a broad consultation in the coming months. In addition to an in-depth study of the literature on this subject, I think it would be appropriate to consult the relevant national and European bodies, local administrations and trade unions in the coming months. I also call on Parliament to contribute to this consultation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have great respect for the many work done by the relief services, including firefighters, ambulances and police, in difficult circumstances over the past few years. It was a year of great effort. They can therefore continue to count on me to continue to support them in their task.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u55	Minister, I already feel you under the pressure of the fire department and the forthcoming mobilization. You're going back half a turn, which I'm glad about. But the most important question is whether you are actually going to break the momentum set in 2016. In fact, today you are breaking zone decisions; my colleague Eric Thiébaut will come back to that. You break them because, indeed, other firefighters believe that the measure to be able to work in this 24-hour shift is a good measure for them. When you speak for the workers, listen to them! However, these are very specific conditions. Stop speaking on their behalf. If they live the opposite of what comes out of your studies, ask them why it suits them. There are these back and forth trips that they must not do on the roads; the preservation of their family life; the stress they need to deal with after a 24-hour shift. Doing this every day and for eight hours in a row, they do not ask for it! Listen to the firefighters and do not impose on them the decisions that your colleague, Jan Jambon, wanted to impose in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u56	Madam Minister, I am a little surprised because you did not say the same thing yesterday in committee. Indeed, you have clearly announced an amendment to the 2014 law. We can go over the minutes, if you like. That being said, you say that we cannot consider new schemes in 24 hours when we have just done so for the Civil Protection in Crisnea. What we refuse to do for emergency areas, we allow ourselves to do for federal services. You'll have to explain it to me. That, the firefighters don't understand. They also do not understand why we work in 24 hours in an area, but that this is not possible in the area next door. This is a matter of fairness of treatment between firefighters. I ask you to allow all our firefighters to work, as they wish, in 24 hours. I invite you to meet them, to meet with the trade union organisations as soon as possible. If you don't, I'll tell you they'll cause you a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u57	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, energy is a basic right. That's obvious. Every family should therefore have very easy access to the cheapest energy contracts on the market. There was the CREG investigation this week. The figures are very clear. Five percent of families have contracts that are among the cheapest in the market. All other consumers therefore do not have a cheap contract. The CREG has examined the reason for this. It's our energy bill, full of numbers and calculations. People say very simply that they do not find their way in the energy bill. That's a problem. It is even so bad that the CREG is training municipal staff and OCMW staff today to explain to families what the invoice is like. We therefore need to train professionals today, so that we can explain the invoice. That's crazy. Madam Secretary, that's why we have two cases to attend to. Firstly, we need to make the energy bill a lot easier, including by reducing it to an A4 sheet. That is what you are doing, and that is a good thing. She has to be understandable. Secondly, we must ensure that people can switch from energy supplier very easily and cheaply. In the past, Parliament has abolished the termination fee. Today, however, we notice that energy suppliers charge a monthly or annual fixed fee, which ensures that those who switch from energy supplier in the middle of the year no longer switch for free. That's against the terms. We do not agree with that. That's not fair. That's not fair. That's what I'm resisting. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following. You've already set things in motion. Parliament has also taken some steps. That's right. However, do you agree with me that we should tackle this annual fixed fee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u58	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt, thank you for your continued support for consumers in the freed-up energy market. You're right, it's not easy, it's complex, and fortunately we have a regulator pointing that out in time and standing. In itself, we do not need the regulator, as we know that our market is still extremely complex at the moment. However, we do need the regulator to indicate which measures are the right ones. Following a report by the regulator that indicated that many millions of families are trapped in the most expensive contracts, we took an initiative. We've called in the CEOs from the companies and they've stopped their practices. That has even led to Mega signing the consumer agreement. This Parliament then restricted the practice of dormant contracts. However, this is not the end of the job. After all, there are still issues in the scaffolding, for example the simplified energy bill that we should be getting up and running by 1 January next year. There is also the revision of the consumer agreement. For this we sent out a survey this week, so that we can get to work on the comments afterwards. A well-functioning supplier market, with consumer confidence and strong suppliers, is something we will have to work on. The subscription fee you mentioned is traditionally an element of that. It is also traditionally an element with which customers have a hard time. Suppliers sometimes maintain practices that are complex for their customers. I am therefore counting on this to come up again in the sent-out inquiry, so that we can get to work on it when the consumer agreement is revised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u59	Madam Minister, you set out the challenge very well and recognise the problem of annual fixed remuneration. When I came to Parliament two years ago, I imagined taking on board all the families and SMEs who are losing themselves in the energy bill and therefore actually paying too much. My group has drawn up a ten-point plan for this and the dormant energy contracts were a very important step, just like simple language on invoices, the sellers at the door and the fixed remuneration, which is also an unfair practice. You're in charge of the government. I will continue to fight in Parliament and I hope that together we will manage to give all families access to the contracts that are intended for them, namely cheap and appropriate contracts, because that is why we have finally freed up the energy market in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u60	Madam Minister, last Tuesday we received in committee Electrabel CEO Thierry Saegeman, who came to explain to us the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. That is nothing special in itself, but I came to terms with it when he confirmed to me that any extension of the life of the two youngest nuclear power stations could no longer be considered, even if your government found in November that security of supply would be compromised. However, last week you stated that the plan B of your coalition agreement is still in place. I do not know whether you have checked the length of your nose after that statement, because I cannot say that you are a liar, but that you clearly did not speak the truth at that time. Madam Secretary, there's a lot at stake. Will energy remain affordable after the closure of nuclear power plants? What about the 12 % additional CO2 from your widely praised gas plants? What about the import dependency of foreign countries? Your promise to monitor energy production in Belgium is also dead letter. I suspect you are pursuing a policy of good luck and thinking that the dumbest farmers have the thickest potatoes. Madam Secretary, explain to me clearly why you wrote in the government agreement that a life extension can be decided in November without interruption, while the operator claims that there is no going back? Why did you say last week, here in the Chamber, that a lifetime extension is possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, if there is a problem with the government's policy, there is one constant, namely that the Prime Minister runs away and does not want to answer the questions. Here it is clear: the MR says that it no longer agrees; for that party, policy based on emotion and ideology cannot continue; for that party, two nuclear power stations must remain open for longer and work must now be done. I understand that, because a poll shows that barely 13% of the population supports the new gas plants. Your colleagues know that, too. In addition, no Flemish coalition partner in his electorate has a majority in favour of nuclear exit, except for Green. This shows once again that this green trophy has to go through the throats of the parties and the population. What will you do about it? In the meantime, Minister De Sutter is firing up the fire a little more by saying that the government will go down in history as the government that realizes the core exit. Who's gonna sound the loudest? Which parties will have to disappoint their voters? Madam Secretary, we know the position of you and your party. The reason you're doing the core step is because you can win with it. We also know the position of the MR and of your predecessor. What exactly will you do with that? Will you change your energy policy, or will you just put that critical voice in the government next to you? I'd love to hear that from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions allow me to return to the coalition agreement once again. The federal government's energy policy is based on three pillars: security of supply, affordability and sustainability. The government's plan is to reaffirm the core exit, which has been in each government agreement since 2003, coupled with an assessment of the progress made in November 2021. The latter is now in a coalition agreement for the first time. Since I became Minister, we've been working on that coalition agreement. We've worked out our investment mechanism. We have been given the legislative and regulatory framework up and running. We have taken a volume decision that provides the framework, where maximum flexibility, storage and battery technology is used, and where the number of gas plants is limited to a minimum, the right enough. In the meantime, the pre-qualification has started. Whoever had a file filed it and the check runs on it. Meanwhile, Elijah's new study is also known. It indicates that we need new production capacity in our country. Colleagues, we're on schedule. We're on schedule to implement the coalition agreement. An evaluation will take place in November 2021. That evaluation didn't come out of the sky. That evaluation will be based on facts and will be based on figures. What is the result of our investment mechanism? How are we doing? How do we guarantee security of supply, affordability and sustainability in our country? In this sense, the statements of ENGIE Electrabel do not fall out of the sky. ENGIE Electrabel has always said that the company subscribes to the government's plan. ENGIE Electrabel thus expresses the confidence it has in the government's plan of action and in the constructive dialogue that takes place. Let me be clear: in our country we are now working on an energy switch. For that we need a strong electricity market. We need investors who invest in the energy switch, and at the same time we need a strong ENGIE Electrabel to invest with, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to fulfil its past responsibilities, in particular the decommissioning and management of radioactive waste with overnight costs of 18 billion. We discussed this last week in Parliament. We need a framework in this country. We need a roadmap in this country. My roadmap is the coalition agreement. I am here as a minister to implement the government agreement to create guarantees when it comes to security of supply, when it comes to affordability and when it comes to sustainability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u63	Madam Secretary, if you had any credibility, you would have lost it for good. Your little green balloon has been punctured. The plan B in the coalition agreement to decide in November whether or not to keep two more nuclear power plants open after 2025 was a tactic to lead your coalition partners around the green garden. You have not told the truth, and you have taken Electrabel's blood from under the nails, so that you would no longer have a plan B. Don't worry, Madam Secretary. You can try to fool the Fleming, but he's not as dumb as you think. You think the Flame is too dumb to plume a chick, but it will be you and your government who plume him when energy becomes priceless, unless you throw money from the state treasury with a gripping hand. You're playing a big game, Madam Secretary. In this story there will be many losers, including yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. You may try to tell yourself what you want, even that everything is going well in the government and that everyone agrees, but I see something else here. While propaganda e-mails are being sent from Green Cabinets to underline that climate policy is one of the most ambitious in the world, I see studies showing the very high degree of fossil electricity production and thus calling it one of the dirtiest in Europe. We had another idea about that. We have always been in favour of a sensible policy in which the two youngest nuclear power plants could remain open, investing wisely in renewable energy and focusing on innovation. This would result in the lowest CO2 emissions and the lowest cost to the taxpayer. What you're doing is something completely different. I have to say that you are going in the wrong direction in that regard. We'll see if anyone still likes the green recipe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u66	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Florence Reuter, Benoît Piedboeuf, Marie-Christine Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Delizee, Mrs Dierick, Mr Vanbesien and Mrs Vanrobaeys. An oral report would normally be issued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u68	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, for sections 24 to 28 of this bill, I refer to the written report. On the other hand, we had a committee meeting a few moments ago, during which two amendments were debated and then voted on. I must then make an oral report on these two amendments. As a reminder, during the vote on the bill in committee on 9 June, an amendment had been debated and voted requiring employers in the securities sector to provide disposable masks (one mask per four-hour service) and disinfectant gel to their workers, endorsing the decision of the Consultation Committee of 23 April to take additional measures in the securities sector to protect workers from the increased risk of contamination. On 18 June 2021, the Consultation Committee confirmed these measures but imposed only disposable masks. The first amendment leaves it to employers to provide: - a number of disposable oral masks per week at least equal to the number of workplaces in which the worker is employed per day, plus the number of additional disposable oral masks per service of more than four hours at the same workplace; - a batch of reusable oral masks whose number is at least equal to the number of workplaces where the worker is employed per week, plus the number of additional reusable oral masks per service of more than four hours at the same workplace. Reusable oral masks must be renewed at least every 15 weeks or at the worker's request. The second amendment extends the measure until 30 September 2021 in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Committee of 18 June last. After a brief exchange, the amendments were adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment No 1 was adopted by 12 votes in favour with 2 abstentions. Rule 29, as amended, was adopted by 11 votes in favour with 3 abstentions. Amendment No 2 was adopted by 11 votes in favour with 3 abstentions. Rule 31 was adopted by 11 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions. The roll-call vote on the package resulted in the following result: 11 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a brief oral report on our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u69	Madam President, both Mr Anseuw and myself will intervene because it is a package of measures which has been discussed in various committees. I will take care of the part that has been discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Mr Anseuw will speak for the Committee on Social Affairs. First of all, I notice that there is one representative of the government. That is already better than what we have been through, but with what is ahead, it would not be a bad thing for the relevant ministers to be here, especially Minister Dermagne, Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Van Peteghem. It would show respect for those who intervene here today and ask questions that the relevant ministers would be here. Anyway, we're lucky to have someone here. I will then address myself to Secretary of State Michel as the representative of the government, as regards Articles 2 to 12 of this bill. They are about compensatory measures for certain authors and performers, in order to compensate for the reduced income from copyright and related rights. Mr Secretary of State, I have a question for your government first. We're here in the Federal Parliament. We have a habit here of asking the Council of State for advice, among other things, when it comes to the division of powers. What value does your government attach to the opinions of the Council of State, especially if they are very clear and cannot be interpreted at all? We should not even have the discussion we are having here on Articles 2 to 12. This Parliament is simply not the place to decide on such matters. The Council of State has been very clear about this. It is so obvious that I would like to quote. The Council of State says: "The social compensation measure provided for in Articles 2 to 12 does not fulfil any of the conditions for being considered as one of the forms of social assistance for which the federal government is competent." We note this in the discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs and pointed out to Minister Dermagne that the opinion of the Council of State clearly stated that it is not the federal government that is responsible for this, but the Länder. Minister Dermagne then referred to certain judgments of the Court of Justice on the basis of which he came to a different interpretation. I do think that the Council of State should be recognised in this, or will the government itself now play judge and interpret the Constitution and the rules on the division of powers? That's special to me, isn't it? In fact, we should not even be having this discussion today. The government therefore takes precedence over the Council of State and uses the powers of the Länder. So far there is the federalism of cooperation that is mentioned in the coalition agreement. That is your interpretation of federalism: it simply reduces the powers of the Länder. If the Council of State has a different opinion on this, it is wrong to say it in your language. This element alone, which is not small, is enough reason for us to vote against the draft law. For these reasons, we did not go too far into the substance in committee. It was very clear to us that it is not the intention to decide on this in the Federal Parliament, but since the government has ignored the Council's opinion, we shall now go into the substance a little more in detail. After all, it appears that the content of the present design is also closely linked in the sense that it does not achieve the objective it wants to achieve. I would like to make one thing very clear: it is a noble goal to support the cultural sector, because it has been hit very hard by the pandemic. We have asked several questions about this and taken several initiatives at the appropriate levels. Our criticism, therefore, does not mean that we believe that the cultural sector should not be supported, but that it should be supported at the appropriate level. In terms of content, too, this sector has not been helped much further. I have a whole series of reservations and questions that demonstrate this. The draft law excludes producers from the aid. The question is whether a conscious choice was made here, because the music sector consists of three main players: the authors, the artists and the producers. They are all economically interwoven, because their income consists of a range of revenues resulting from all the forms of exploitation that exist in the musical world. If it is the intention of the present draft to compensate for lost copyright and related rights, then the producers are also entitled to compensation and not just the authors and artists. The Belgian local producers, like the authors and performers, have also been severely affected by the measures taken in the context of the covid pandemic. The lower revenues of the producers are mainly due to fair remuneration, but also to physical sales due to the restrictions that existed, for example, in the retail sector. The government says it wants to support the authors and performers, because they were heavily affected by the measures because they had to stop their live activities and public performances. I repeat, we support this support and support this goal, but live concerts also often feature recorded music, both before, during and after the concerts. For this purpose, a fair remuneration shall be paid each time. That compensation goes to the performers and the producers, but that last category you exclude here. That's very strange. I did not receive any justification for this either in committee. So far there is a first point of substance. Secondly, it is of course intended that the aid provided here for which you are not actually competent should reach those affected by the corona measures, the most vulnerable. The explanatory memorandum to the article, which provides this, states that the main aim of the measure is to support the most vulnerable artists. It is not the aim to give the artists with the highest incomes a premium above a certain limit. So there is only talk here about artists, not about authors, let alone about producers. So suddenly it's about just one of the three players in the music sector. Apart from that, of course, it is right for you to say that it must be the most vulnerable. However, we see that the draft law does not establish any control mechanism. In Article 10 we are talking about monitoring, but we would like to know how the aid will actually be directed towards those for whom it was intended. For this, you look at the management companies, but that is not further developed. How will the objective be guaranteed? How will one find the most vulnerable artists? What about those who are not members of a management company? These are all open questions that we do not get an answer to. Thirdly, a lot of things are being thrown into a pile. After all, what is your purpose? The aim is to compensate for the loss of copyright in a live performance, at least that is what Mr Dermagne has repeatedly said. Is there another purpose, however? Is it about the loss of copyright tout court, as it says in the inscription of the design? Copyrights for a live performance go to the authors, not to the artist, unless they are also the author. If a fair remuneration is paid, it goes to the artist and to the producer. Is this about support for the live circuit, for example to Pukkelpop, the beach bars and the park concerts? After all, they don't know any Unisonophacture. Is it about support for the catering industry, which has a permanent operation? Those are all questions that impose themselves. The aim is not to be derived either from the draft law or from the answers we received in committee. A next element is a ceiling that is set. A ceiling is established whereby the total amount of social compensation should never exceed 70% of the reduced income by 2020 and 2021. Since the calculation of compensation on the basis of previous years' income is very difficult, the draft law provides that, if such a calculation would be impossible, the King may, in certain cases, fix a lump sum. There are certain limits to this flat-rate amount. However, the fixing of a lump sum is very far from the original objective of the draft, namely to compensate for the loss of revenue from copyright and related rights, as stated in the title. Another element is the reference period. This point also raises questions. This is a package, specifically for authors and artists, of EUR 19 million, which will be distributed among the five management companies in proportion to the losses they suffered in 2020 compared to the average of the three previous years. That seems to be a very arbitrary period. After all, music exploitation has a very long duration cycle. That cycle is very closely linked to the specific ecosystem we know in that sector. After all, one could ask whether someone who could have filled the Sports Palace three times in 2019 could have done so in 2020. That's not how it works. In order to do this properly, it is better to look at the number of appearances that an artist has had to cancel rather than the reference year or a series of reference years. A further element, which has been discussed several times, even here in plenary on the oral questions, is Unisonofacture. Minister Dermagne states that the present bill also meets the bottleneck of Unisonophacture. However, that is not the case. After all, the sectors that have had to close, such as hotels and fitness centres, have had to pay for the music they have not been able to play. During the committee meetings, Minister Dermagne announced that negotiations have taken place between the sectors that had to close and Unisono, but without result. Why? The right holders who are able to collect the rights to the music heard are also very badly affected by the corona crisis and argue that they cannot make it without their share of the income of Unisonophacture. I understand. It is quite right that Minister Dermagne has sought a solution. But we are wondering why the slope of the third-payer scheme, which was on the table, was not followed further? At some point, that slope has deviated. I asked a question about this in committee at the time. I didn't get an answer. Why didn't the third-payer's piste follow? The draft law, as I said, does not respond to Unisonophacture either. Why? Unisono covers copyright, Sabam, as we know it, and fair compensation, PlayRight. Only half of them are met. How can the draft law before the Unisonofacture meet if only half of the fair remuneration laid down in the law is present? Surely one cannot say that the Unisonophacture is being met? I do not envy you, Mr Secretary of State, when you can try to answer all the questions later. Next item. Your colleague, Minister Dermagne, said that it is not necessary for the author or the performer to be connected...(Minister Dermagne enters the hemisphere) Ah, Minister Dermagne, I'm very happy to see you. I'm very glad you're here to support your colleague. Shall I start again from the beginning? No, I'm just kidding. In the meantime, I'm at point 7 of 9. I can now turn directly to you, Mr Dermagne, which I am very pleased about. During the committee meeting, you stated that it is not necessary for an author or performer to be a member of a management company in order to qualify for the social compensation measure in question. The question then is on what basis the distribution will take place. As far as companies are concerned, you have made it clear that they are excluded from the aid in question. However, as you undoubtedly know, connections with Sabam and PlayRight can only be personalized and not with a company. Membership through a company is only possible with SIMIM and with Sabam also for publishers. In the draft law before us, you regulate under Article 8 that if the management company decides to do a commercial gesture, as we saw during the first lockdown, it will be eligible for aid as a legal person. In particular, this applies to the publishers who are members of Sabam. Thus, for those people, the 70% limit and the administrative costs of up to 5% for the distribution of the aid do not apply. In other words, you are making a distinction here between natural persons, who are subject to a ceiling, and management companies, to which that ceiling does not apply. Can you just do that? What is the legal basis for this? I was just talking about the commercial gesture regarding the Unisono invoice. Where a management company that did not receive compensation from the users on its list in 2020 also undertakes to do a commercial gesture in 2021, it is provided that they may use part of the amount of the compensation to compensate for the loss of income resulting from that gesture. The question is, of course, how will it be ensured that these management companies will effectively go to that commercial gesture or that they will cancel the invoices addressed to the companies that had to be closed and therefore did not play music. That is not clear in the bill. Moreover, as regards the Unisono invoice, it concerns, on the one hand, the copyright section, Sabam, and, on the other hand, the fair remuneration section, i.e. PlayRight and SIMIM. During the first lockdown only Sabam granted a discount on the invoice, a discount of one month. During the second lockdown, no discount has been granted. The draft law states that only those who granted a discount in 2020 may do so in 2021. In concrete terms, this is only about Sabam. Of course, that is very strange, because you say that PlayRight and SIMIM refused that gesture, but they were asking for the third-payer scheme, which I mentioned earlier, and which piste you left at some point. Moreover, it was also decided that the management companies could set a commercial gesture up to a maximum of five months in relation to those members, while sectors such as the catering or fitness centres were closed for much longer than five months. We do not understand why it was chosen to set that five-month period in the text, while negotiations with the various sectors are still ongoing. The strangest twist is the fact that through those commercial gestures you actually open up another game of exploitation rights. After all, you are actually shifting from a live performance, which you spoke about very often in committee and which is often put forward as a goal in the draft law, to copyright and fair remuneration in public communication to the public of recorded music. So suddenly the scope shifts. With Unisono, the operator must pay, for example the catering operator, copyrights, Sabam and fair remuneration, but your bill literally states that where Sabam dropped the copyright in respect of the catering industry, this is compensated by state aid, whereas that state aid is actually intended to support the live artists. Mr. Secretary, can you follow for yourself? Who do you really support: the catering operator, who does not have to pay Sabam, but still has to pay a fair fee, and the author who is a member of Sabam and is reimbursed for the exploitation of recorded music, but not a live concert, which unfortunately did not take place? It's not clear at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for my comprehensive statement, but this draft law is intertwined. Moreover, we are not at the appropriate level here. Minister, we could amend your draft law, but the opinion of the Council of State is already quite clear, as I said at the beginning of my speech. At the committee meeting, you cited judgments of the Court of Justice. You seem to be giving your own interpretation. This government ignores the Council of State's opinions, even though they are very clear and totally uninterpreted. I have already quoted it at the beginning of my speech. That is why we have not tabled any amendments. We do not want to participate in something that is not really within the competence of this Parliament and does not belong to your government. The Council of State is very clear about this. Minister, it is very clear. Let me remind you of that. The social compensation measure provided for here does not meet any of the conditions for being considered as one of the forms of social assistance for which the federal government is competent. It can't be clearer. None of the conditions are met. It is a pity for the sector, which has been very badly hit. For all the above reasons, we cannot but vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u70	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, who would have imagined, a year ago, that we would hardly start a crisis recovery today. However, it has now been months since we have adopted aid measures (social aid, aid to the most vulnerable, aid to the most affected sectors). It was necessary. It was even fundamental to halt a social and economic disaster that threatened to add to the health tragedy we experienced. Today is the beginning of the recovery. That's what I'm hoping for. Bars and restaurants have reopened, as have cinemas, theatres and concert halls. Little by little our social and professional life resumes its course. However, the scars are there. It is now time to consider new measures to support and stimulate employment to ensure that as many workers as possible have an income so that those who have suffered temporary unemployment can again receive their wages. This bill partially meets this requirement. My colleague will mention earlier the compensation measures for certain authors, artists and performers who have seen their income generated by copyright and neighboring rights diminish or even disappear during the pandemic. On the other hand, targeted and proportionate ONSS contribution reductions for businesses that have increased their job volume must encourage employers to restart their business. They can also stimulate the creation of new businesses and thus new jobs. This cost to our social security needs to benefit economic actors who take a very real view of the supply of work. That is why we fully support the conditions associated with the reductions, i.e. no distribution of dividends or bonuses or redemption of own shares, no announcement of collective redundancies, scrupulous compliance with sectoral training obligations, all of which guarantees that these aids really serve the interests of workers. For the Horeca sector, an exemption from annual contributions offset by a corresponding grant to the National Office for Annual Holidays will help to avoid bankruptcies, but also job losses. These support measures for employers, like all those implemented throughout this crisis, will need to be thoroughly evaluated. If they have been taken with the intention of safeguarding employment in the face of emergency, they should not continue without careful consideration of the pros and cons, at the risk of putting the financing of our social security at risk. We have already been reassured that an audit of the Court of Auditors will take place. It will provide responses and recommendations. We in my group will pay particular attention to the fact that the cuts in contributions that would be extended are a real investment in employment, for the benefit of the workers, through which our economy has remained standing. The beginning of the summer is conducive to the work of the students. These students have particularly suffered the impact of the crisis in their studies but also with the loss of their job, the latter often providing, unfortunately, in whole or in part, their housing, their food. We remember the students in line with the food aid distributions. They now need income and probably more than other years. For this reason, the measure raising the maximum number of hours allowed for the summer period only seems to us to be adequate and without the risk of competition with regular work. One measure is particularly close to my heart. This is the one for domestic helpers working for service securities companies. In this regard, I interviewed Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne in March of this year following the black book which had been tabled by the aides-maisons and which identified serious shortcomings in health measures. In this very particular context of working at the home of users, checks are not easy and the Prevention and Protection at Work Act does not adequately address the problems faced by these workers. Therefore, in addition to the employer's obligation to provide masks and disinfectant in sufficient quantity to these workers, the right of withdrawal that is stipulated responds to this situation. If the worker finds that the conditions are not met to perform his or her duties safely, he or she shall notify his or her employer and may withdraw from the situation until the situation is resolved. Occupational health is a major concern of my group and the provision of quality equipment must be guaranteed. I hope that employers will choose the safest protections for their workers and respect their rights to leave a home they consider dangerous to their health. Of course, my group will fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am dealing with the part of this bill that was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs a few weeks ago. This concerns Articles 2 to 11 concerning covid support for artists. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in this hemisphere denies that support is necessary. That was not disputed in committee either. We give these people genuinely that. We can see, of course, that covid has only caused losers. Not only the catering companies, but also the employees who are active in the catering industry, the suppliers, the artists, the event sector. In short, the list is infinite. On several occasions, the catering companies have called the alarm bell and contacted various cabinets regarding the Unisonofacture. Minister Clarinval and Minister Dermagne have had those people on audience and coffee several times to settle the matter, but at the same time these people were also sent on several walks because there was no solution. Of course there was a problem because the catering entrepreneurs who had to close the doors for many months had to pay for music that they hadn't actually played. I understand that, on the one hand, you have the catering entrepreneurs who have been closed for many months and have suffered loss of income and, on the other hand, you have the authors, the artists and producers, who have also suffered loss of income. I can follow somewhere that intervention by a government may be necessary, but from then on I can no longer follow. It is said that a discount of up to five months will be given on the Unisonofacture. However, as we all know, the fair remuneration laid down in Royal Decrees remains due. In fact, one gives more or less a dead sparrow and the problem is anything but solved. The draft only talks about copyright and related rights. That is to say: authors and artists. Therefore, producers appear to be falling out of the boat. The present draft states that the main purpose of the aid measure is to cover loss of revenue from public performances and public performances. This means that we have thought about the performers, but not about the producers, which makes the design contrary to the principle of equality. That is sad, Minister, because the people in your cabinet should know that producers are an engine of new and future talent. However, they were deliberately forgotten. In addition, I note that the management fee of management companies may amount to 5% of the EUR 19 million pot, because they will eventually have to pay out that pot. No one really knows what that 5 % is based on. 5 per cent of EUR 19 million amounts to EUR 950,000, which remains in the pocket of management companies. I don't think that's right. I think that's too much. As regards the amounts of compensation, reference years are discussed in a number of cases. That is not correct, however, because artists who were successful in those years or for example had just released a new album or who were able to perform a lot during that reference year are now rewarded. This also means that especially a lot of money will go to the great artists, while it would be the intention to support the small artists as well. That means that the little ones who release a record sporadically and by chance have not released a new cd on the market in the reference year will receive alms. In fact, it would have been much better if we had looked at real evidence that could be presented. That's much more honest. Only then will we really support the artists who really need it. I wonder, Minister, if that is your definition of socialism. The debate that took place in committee had no level whatsoever. The only argument I kept hearing was that the cultural sector has suffered and that there will soon be no cultural sector, if we do not give the support. That was the only argument I got on the many questions that were asked. In fact, you know very well, Mr Dermagne, that this bill does not belong here. Aid to undertakings is a matter for the regions. That is what the Council of State says very clearly. That's what you're gonna ignore. What you're actually doing is looking for a back door in order to be able to give the support. In fact, you say, "We have imposed measures as a federal government, so we are also entitled as a federal government to pay for the damage." That is really Belgium at its best, looking for a number of loopholes to implement a number of measures that we feel like doing. Mr Minister, I will tell you why you are putting forward this bill. The Socialists and the Greens are not in the Flemish government. As a left, of course, you want to show your good heart to the sector. So you're trying to pull a rabbit out of the hat and solve it at federal level, because you want to claim a particle of the cultural sector. But another reason why you solve it this way is because you're actually too lazy. If we talk about support for natural persons, it could only be integrated into social security. This is a clumsy and too complicated for you, so you have chosen the easiest way and you do not even take into account the complexity of the sector. That makes this bill legally incorrect. Another reason why you are presenting this today is perhaps to get rid of the sawing of the catering industry, which systematically came knocking at your door for the Unisonofacture, for which you were unable to find a solution. Colleagues, I think it is Parliament's job to provide legal certainty. I am particularly sorry that personal victories take the upper hand here, because you were actually better off sitting around the table with the Regions. Then you would have been able to draw up tight legislation and then we should not have had this discussion today. The committee chairman, Stefaan Van Hecke, who is a lawyer, has made a remarkable statement. He said that we should not follow the advice of the Council of State. He doesn't think that's our duty. Of course, it's not our duty. He said in a breath that if there is no legal certainty and we do not have jurisdiction, the Constitutional Court will decide on this later. How dare we call ourselves a Parliament, as a committee chairman, who is a lawyer himself, in this way dealing with this legislation? I think that's just a disgrace. Everything seems to be in jugs, Minister. We have not voted on this draft today, but if we now look at the communications they have made on the Unisono website, we can see that the procedure has already been explained, how artists can claim the compensation scheme. That's already explained from needle to thread. So you played a one-two with Unisono and other management organisations, Minister. You are actually making a fool of Parliament today. I have said that we are not against support in itself, we are giving everyone the light of the sun. However, the fact that you want to rush through this House quickly, just before the recess, so that you can enjoy a holiday with your feet in the air, puts legal certainty completely at risk. You continue on good luck so that no one would go to the Constitutional Court. Someone should go to the Constitutional Court after today's vote and say that this is not according to the rules of jurisdiction as they should be. If this legislation is then destroyed, what will you do with your 19 million euro pot? Will you, in that way, please those artists? I don't think so. The state structures are not respected at all. You really took everything out of the closet to condone this. Flemish Interest does not participate in this. We have therefore tabled amendments to delete the disputed articles, because they do not belong in the draft law. I call on everyone to support these amendments today so that we can do the exercise again in a proper way, because we owe it to our democracy. We cannot adopt laws here that are contrary to the powers of the Regions. This also means that we could generally apply those powers. That is why we cannot fail to reject this bill today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u72	Madam President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, for many months now we have regularly come to defend temporary support measures because of the pandemic and the extension measures. Unfortunately, this is still necessary since the crisis is not yet behind us. The vaccination procedure is in full swing and the figures are encouraging. We're starting to see the end of the tunnel. Nevertheless, support measures are still needed. Soon, they will give way to stimulus measures to support sectors that have suffered the crisis harder than others and/or have been forced to close – and some are still. We are pleased to note that our bill not to maintain excise duty on outdated beer drums has been incorporated. I will concentrate on articles dealt with by the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to point out four measures here. First of all, the hours worked by students during the third term will not be included in the annual quota of 475 hours. This is a good thing for students who have not been able to work for long months, but also for those sectors that regularly employ them and for which this workforce is obviously welcome. I am thinking in particular of the horeca sector. Secondly, measures are also being taken to ensure the well-being and safety of service workers. Thirdly, there are measures of support for the hotel sector of the Joint Committee 302. The government has decided once again to support this sector by intervening on the amount of the annual contribution that finances the annual vacation plans. A grant of EUR 110 million will also be granted to the National Office for Annual Holidays. Finally, this bill provides for a further reduction of the target group to the attention of sectors hard hit by the crisis but which demonstrate a willingness to overcome it while supporting employment. The scheme provides for a reduction of social contributions of EUR 2 400 per quarter for a maximum of five workers per establishment unit, provided that they comply with a set of arrangements provided for. This is a measure adapted to small structures and SMEs, and that is a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this last point also marks the beginning of the stimulus measures that we all look forward to. Of course, we will support the measures provided for in this bill as well as future stimulus measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will confine myself to the section on social affairs, Articles 14 to 28. Since March 2020, our economy has been largely constrained. In the summer there were relaxations, which meant that there were again revenues, but in October we were once again confronted with the closure of sectors until March, April and even May depending on the sector. Just to be clear, the measures were needed to control the severe pandemic. They also had an unprecedented economic impact on many sectors. They cut deep into it. For example, the catering industry had no income from its activities for 10 months. Even though the aid, both federal and regional, was a welcome relief, it was barely enough for many to pay the fixed costs. They have therefore had to appeal to their reserves. Stilan restores the economy and increases consumer confidence, which is, of course, positive. However, we must be aware that we are not yet at the pre-crisis level and that it is therefore necessary to extend the temporary support measures. The vaccination campaign is accelerating and relaxations are being introduced step by step. That is a good thing, but as long as we are not rid of the virus, caution is needed. We therefore fully agree with the proposed temporary support measures. Specific measures, such as temporary unemployment and the reduction of RSZ contributions, were taken for enterprises and sectors which had to close down, such as the catering industry. The aim of the measure proposed by the government here is to maximise the incentives for companies to recruit people during the economic revival. Indirectly, this will also give the transition a push in the back. While employment in a number of sectors will not recover to the old level, the crisis will have given some other sectors a boost. It's a temporary measure. In view of the exceptional circumstances, this is absolutely justified. The exemption from the annual contribution of the holiday allowance for workers in the catering industry is also a good thing; we are of course fully in favour of this. Employers are expected to pay the contribution by 31 October, but have had no or no income for months. In this way, a great concern of the catering companies is taken away. There are plenty of other problems: many are suffering from serious financial concerns, many of their employees have found work in other places and it is difficult to find new ones, which makes it difficult to start up activities quickly. Although the measure has a high cost, it is entirely justified. The necessary strict measures to control the virus caused many companies problems. It is therefore important that we allow companies to cope with the difficult situation. We are also very pleased with the measure to neutralize student work for the third quarter for all sectors, so we do not have to take account of the annual quota imposed. The difficulties in many sectors in finding staff that can be used flexibly have not yet been resolved. It is therefore a good thing that the measure applies to all sectors. Finally, the workers were also rightly involved in the service cheque companies. They often find themselves in a very vulnerable situation. There are very poignant stories in this area, because customers of service cheque companies do not all comply with the rules. Certainly, workers who work in different places are at enormous risk to date. It is therefore more than right that additional measures should be imposed in this area, albeit amended by the Consultative Committee at its latest meeting. We will therefore support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for being here. However, I would like to return to a few discussions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, not least in relation to this draft law, on Unisonophacture. Some were reluctant to repeat this year's 2020 intervention. On the other hand, we did not think it fair that, among other things, the catering industry, which was closed for seven and a half months, still had to pay that bill, just like fitness stores, which had been closed for more than seven months, and barbershops, which had been closed for four months. There were plenty of people who had to pay for music that wasn't played in the end. On the other hand, this did not apply to other aid measures in the past year and a half that we would have to deal with with with a measure for certain sectors which have had a difficult time, perhaps a sector which is also having a difficult time, namely the cultural sector, the artists' sector. The two are strongly linked in this story. In all the debates on this matter in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, it was warned that, if we were to interfere with the Unisono regime, it might be at the expense of another sector, which is also facing a great deal of difficulties. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposed solution reconciles the two: a part of the invoice is cancelled but not at the expense of the cultural sector. There is, after all, some balance, as was originally requested in committee. I have always advocated that the companies concerned should be able to do something more themselves. The Dutch counterpart of Unisono, for example, has made more efforts; that was apparently not possible in our country. I still regret that this was not possible from the outset and that the government had to take an initiative after discussions. Fortunately, there is a government that does not abandon the sectors that are already struggling. The sectors which had to close as one of the first and can only be reopened as one of the latter, albeit still very limited and not at full speed. In this context, I would like to respond to a number of things that Mr Van Lommel said, because they surprised me. You said the government is looking for loopholes to support the affected sectors. I think that's crazy. Yes, we are going to support those sectors. You can see loopholes in that, but I am not ashamed that the government supports these sectors. On the contrary, fortunately, the government supports these sectors. I would like to respond to another matter, Mr Van Lommel, and then perhaps you can replicate both afterwards. You say that the government has arranged this very quickly to get rid of the sawing of the catering sector. That is also remarkable, because I remember your statements in which you asked the government itself to do so. I would remind you of the report of 17 March in which you asked the Minister whether there was a reduction, suspension or waiver of the annual fee and what initiatives the Minister has already taken. In your opinion, therefore, the Minister would not have done enough to get rid of the sawing of the catering sector. Well, we can reassure you, they will have to stop seeing you, because the Minister has made sure that there is a solution. One final point, Mr President, which surprises me the most, is that you tell Minister Dermagne that he will soon be able to enjoy his leave of absence because he has solved the hooray, hooray and therefore may take leave. I find that remark rather inappropriate. You are making this point to a minister who has just solved this problem and who has been in consultation with the various sectors for months, not only on this dossier but also on many others. Coming here to say that he can now go on leave with peace of mind, I find quite inappropriate. Especially when we look at what you've already done. What is your contribution to the solution, except to table amendments to delete something? I can do the same, but perhaps you could have come up with an alternative, with your own proposal to resolve it. I therefore find your comment rather strange, Mr Van Lommel. You will undoubtedly respond to it, but at least my own group would like to thank the ministers here for their efforts in the sectors affected. Sectors that have been having a particularly difficult time for more than a year, which is unlikely to change in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u75	Mrs Depraetere, you seem to have little knowledge of the state structure in this country. Maybe you should take state structure lessons. What I said about the loopholes has nothing to do with, for example, the catering sector or the fitness centres for which the Unisono invoice has actually continued and which would now receive a discount. You wanted to help the cultural sector in one way or another at all costs, which, of course, I do not blame you. I am talking about loopholes because you should have been talking to the regions, which are responsible for providing aid to companies, businesses, activities and so on. There lies the solution of the whole story, but of course you are not in the majority. There are no Greens and Socialists who always come back to the cultural sector and you have found something here. The Minister made it quite clear in committee that the federal government has caused damage to those artists and that it is therefore their right to compensate for that damage. That does not make any sense at all, because that does not take account of the division of powers in this country. That's exactly what I was talking about. I have indeed checked several times with the Minister about the consultations that have taken place around the Unisono invoices and so on. That seems pretty logical to me. I have never said that the Minister's solution must go against the division of powers in this country. That's what I'm talking about. I said earlier that the KBs are still around fair remuneration. They're gonna have to be paid for, too. In fact, you give these entrepreneurs a handout, because they have had to suspend their activities for many months. It goes up to five months. I understand that this is a gesture that you want to do, but you should have looked at the full invoice and at the same time included the whole story of the producers in this bill. You didn't. Even legally, this bill is not properly drafted. Can I say that from the opposition? Can it be said if legislation is not good? The Council of State has stated that the text of the draft law runs counter to state structures. Mr Van Hecke, chairman of the committee and also a lawyer, had the nerve to say in committee that those involved should refer their case to the Constitutional Court. Is that how Parliament should deal with these artists? Is that how you're gonna end up putting money on these people, if maybe someone goes to the Constitutional Court tomorrow, maybe it's done with your 19 million-dollar pot? Be serious for once, be honest with yourself. Be honest with the way this country works, and you won't get it. In fact, we do not even have to have such a debate. I never said I wouldn't give the artists anything. I have already expressed my support very clearly, but grants must be made from the right level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u76	Mrs Depraetere, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u77	Madam President, we are not going to repeat the debate at the committee meeting. I suppose Minister Dermagne will come back to the Council of State's advice. Mr Van Lommel, you can quote the same thing all the time, but the Minister has already clearly said that he is competent and that he can provide support for those sectors if that does not happen at other levels. In any case, it is happening here, fortunately for the sectors that have been affected for so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u78	Madam Chair, Ministers, in practice, we support a number of measures contained in this bill. However, I would like to make two points. First of all, with regard to the cultural sector and especially the music sector, you are aware that it is structured around authors, artists and producers. You have made the choice, obviously voluntarily, to leave the producers completely out of the way. Denying their existence, denying their contribution to musical wealth in Belgium - it is still producers and labels who are the first investors in new talent - and denying the difficulties they have faced in this major economic crisis, particularly with significant losses of remuneration, all this seems totally incomprehensible and otherwise unwarranted. Indeed, the government's argument that it would be a matter of helping individuals or individual businesses is not on the road. There are, of course, producers who are natural persons or individual undertakings. Therefore, this point in your bill is problematic for us. The other point I wanted to raise, which has been discussed in committee, concerns the social affairs aspect. This is the way in which the government carries out two categories of aid, particularly with regard to the famous 50% loss level that has been decided for the granting of the reduction in social contributions. We are therefore in this system, i.e. close to 1% or 2% on the bright side, and we can then benefit from a clearly greater reduction in social contributions. Either we're 1 or 2 per cent on the wrong side and it's a much lower aid. Here too, you have found an argument that does not hold the road in my eyes. You invoke the fact that, if there were more than one level, it would be too complex. Frankly, you hide behind the complexity while the binary system as you designed it with one level for this reduction of social contributions has such differences, especially for small businesses and for self-employed people. I would never have mentioned a 50- or 100-level system, but there would have been much more fairness with a system, for example, at a maximum of four or five levels. It would have made it possible to take into account the diverse reality of each other and to provide aid much more in line with reality and experience on the ground. In this regard, we consider that inequity is too important to ignore. The argument of complexity, which could not be made more complex but much more equitable, is not acceptable to us. Our support will therefore be partial. We will therefore abstain from this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u79	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly indicated that we will continue to support all measures to mitigate the health, socio-economic and financial consequences of the pandemic. I am not going to repeat the discussions that took place in committee, but simply to focus on two or three points. First, with regard to compensation measures for authors and artists in order to compensate for the loss of income due to the coronavirus, we fully support them. We subscribe to the single social aid intended to compensate partly - but significantly - for the loss of income from copyrights, rights related to certain forms of exploitation, such as the cancellation of live events and performances, theatrical performances or operas and other compulsory closures. These approximately EUR 19 million financed from the federal state budget, which will be distributed among the five management companies, in proportion to the losses incurred in 2020, will be welcomed for authors, artists, performers and performers whose income losses have been considerable throughout the past year, already mapped, and those already known in the current year. They paid a heavy toll on the crisis, and it is important that they are not forgotten. Another point to be highlighted is the commercial gesture towards Unisono for all sectors that were forced to close as a result of sanitary measures, such as the Horeca or the fitness halls, and that had to pay fees for music that they did not broadcast. It is also important that you in this bill have considered that the amounts received by the beneficiaries under this one-time aid scheme cannot be deducted from the daily amount of the unemployment benefit paid to those beneficiaries. I still wonder about the scope of the opinion of the legislative section of the Council of State, which denies any jurisdiction to the federal authority in this matter, despite the fact that your legal justifications, conceived as a consideration for the damage suffered by the rightholders as a result of the application of the health measures decided by the government, which assume damage and damage caused, are a priori convincing. As you yourself said, the zero risk, namely the annulment of this part of the law by the Constitutional Court, is not excluded. It is honourable that the federal authority asserts in an assertive manner in parliamentary proceedings that it will never seek reimbursement of the assistance granted in this context. Secondly, we welcome the government's willingness to introduce measures in this bill to stimulate recovery and employment rates. After measures have been put in place to limit the economic consequences of the pandemic, such as temporary unemployment or the postponement of social contributions, it seems to us essential to think about recovery by adopting targeted support measures. By way of illustration, the reduction in ONSS contributions of €2,400 per quarter per worker will allow many employees seriously affected by the pandemic to benefit from an additional oxygen buoy. In this regard, we suggest that much greater progress should be made in reducing contributions, in order to avoid too much disparity between beneficiaries. Finally, we welcome the adoption of targeted measures for Horeca. Since the beginning of the health crisis, this sector has been one of the hardest hit. I would remind you that it represents more than 57,000 companies and nearly 120,000 workers. It is a part of our economy that attracts an increasingly young workforce. In conclusion, if we support this whole project, we are wondering about the long-term fiscal trajectory and the introduction, at the same time, of structural measures to maintain it. While it is necessary to support both workers and employers affected by the crisis, it is equally important that our country maintains sound public finances. It is therefore not a question of opening valves without measuring their long-term consequences. We will remain vigilant on this last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u80	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of action has been taken in the past corona period. I will refer specifically to the RSZ discount given in this bill, which was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. During the corona period, many measures were taken that basically support unemployment. In many cases this has been or is necessary for a certain period of time. Of course, it is a thin line between unemployment and inactivity in general, to support those people who are forced into inactivity, rather than to perpetuate people in that inactivity. Still, we must be able to come to the conclusion that we are approaching the turning point, if we have not already reached it. I have always advocated as finely as possible measures with regard to any aid to corona that has been discussed in committee and in plenary, because they must be highly targeted and effective. This RSZ discount is in principle intended to be a support measure to stimulate employment rather than unemployment. Of course, we are very happy with that principle. For employers who start from a situation with a strong turnover loss in recent months, this can effectively bring added value. However, I cannot get rid of the impression that the present and very wide-ranging aid measures to stimulate employment are partly the remedy for many other measures of the past few months which have just been and have achieved the opposite, i.e. inactivity. In order to control a pandemic, it is necessary to debate at some point what measures can be useful in order to reduce the pandemic. I understand. Inactivity over a given period may be part of this to some extent. I have heard a colleague speak today about 'these necessary measures'. It is not the first time that I have said it: the necessity of the measures has never really been the subject of debate. That was accepted. It was the pensée unique and it still is for a large part. I do not think that this has been sufficiently critical in recent months. I would like to make another general comment: as far as the socio-economic aspect is concerned, it is not a crisis caused by the corona virus, but it is a crisis caused by the corona measures. One question we need to ask is whether this crisis is a result or the cause. I think that some of the measures that have been taken are the cause of the inactivity that we are now trying to combat with a RSZ discount for the third quarter. Some speakers argue that N-VA does not grant aid to companies or entrepreneurs. We do, but it is not our job to favour economic operators. It is our job to take measures that do them a favour. There's a big difference between giving someone something and doing someone a favor. It must be the intention to do people a favor. I have also said that, as far as we are concerned, the scope of the measure is far too wide. In fact, it already applies to employers who, with a relatively limited increase, can already receive a RSZ discount in a number of cases only 10% of the work volume.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The measure does not take into account the impact of the corona crisis on specific sectors or the loss of turnover of the employer. It is sufficient that we now have only 10% more people at work than a few months ago. I think that this is not so difficult in many sectors today. The bar is therefore rather low for a very wide-ranging RSZ discount. This aid measure, a measure aimed at stimulating activation, is said to be designed to achieve this objective, and must be much more finer. This is a form of justice, but above all it is also a way of doing the economic operators a service. I'm declaring myself. In committee, Minister, I asked why you did not make the measure more finer than it is today, because it is very widely applicable, which means that many companies and sectors that do not actually need it will receive a RSZ discount. We cannot put the various sectors on the same footing. A number of sectors have bled and have really had a hard time. We can't let that go. Then we must have the debate on how best to deal with it. However, there are also sectors that haven't been so bad at all, but which can get the RSZ discount by creating only 10% more activity and more employment compared to a few months ago. This may have the perverse effect where employers who have done everything possible to keep as many people on the job as possible despite their turnover losses will actually get less RSZ discount than those who have already switched to temporary unemployment rather easily. There might have been alternatives. I'm not gonna put everyone on the same page. After all, there are companies that had no choice, let us be clear. It's a debate that deserves nuance. But that is a number of things that we must avoid, and that is not happening here at all. I asked you, Mr Vandenbroucke, why this measure is not more fine. What I really appreciate about you is that you tell me the truth straight away when I ask you a question. Not all of your colleagues do that all the time. You do, and I appreciate that very much. You have said that it is true that there is a very real chance that some companies or sectors will receive the RSZ discount where they do not strictly need it. The reason why you are taking this generic measure is in fact your fear of getting into trouble with Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in other words unlawful state aid. I must say that I was surprised, not because of your transparency in the matter, but because it turns out to be an effective reason. In fact, you are saying that this is indeed state aid that you think is not actually permitted and lawful, but you are bypassing that rule by granting aid to sectors and companies that do not really need it. I think that this is quite a punishment, especially since the rules on state aid aim to have a well-functioning market. It is mainly served by fair competition. That's what it's about, of course. This brings me back to the point that our intention should not be to give businesses and sectors something, but to do them a service. This is done mainly by ensuring that all the necessary conditions are met to enable a well-functioning market to operate. However, this is not done by doing exactly the opposite of what is happening here, namely taking a measure which, according to your reply in committee, consists of unlawful state aid which de facto leads to a less effective market and puts pressure on fair competition. In doing so, we do not serve our economic fabric. That is why my plea has always been over the past year, when it comes to corona aid measures, and it is once again that fine-meshed measures are being taken. However, that is not the case here. This is also our fundamental objection to the articles on which we are dealing, namely the RSZ discount. We have no problem with targeted support for businesses and sectors within a given time frame. These measures must also apply within a certain time frame. They cannot endure forever. However, we cannot agree to measures which take the course of the rules, not because the rules are an end in themselves, but because they must be a guarantee of a functioning market. The N-VA does not participate in measures which, under the pretext of economic aid, put pressure on the functioning of the market. You can't blame us for that either. That's the essence of the story. I have also indicated this in committee, and I repeat it now. We need to work on fine-meshed measures. The debate on the necessity of this or that restrictive measures in our economic landscape never took place last year. Was the imposed inactivity always necessary or not? It was not done to question that even out loud. Many of the debates that need to be held here have not been held, which puts us in a situation like today. With the present RSZ discount, we will not be doing our economic weaving set any service at macro level. It is now time for an exit scenario for our economy. In the third quarter, as has been shown in recent weeks and months, the economy in our country must and will attract. However, the third quarter is not used or used to at least start the exit, including from the aid measures, which we will support as long as they are needed. However, we cannot get rid of the impression that they maintain inactivity in certain cases. That really can't be the intention. In that case, we will be stuck in a crisis that we will cause more than we will solve afterwards. I would therefore like to call for an exit scenario for socio-economic support measures, and we must get our hands on the team, because we are missing the third quarter, which is actually the quarter which is the perfect way to start the exit from the corona strategy. This is a missed opportunity from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u81	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to be very long, but I still wanted to address you to highlight the importance of the project before us today. It is clear that we will need more time to realize the full extent of the damage caused by this pandemic. We are thinking first of those who left too early and their families, as well as those whose fragile or precarious situation has worsened, and all those who have seen their incomes disappear completely in sectors that create social ties. Among these are the artists. We have been deprived for more than a year of public services, a year without being in direct contact with those who share with us as much emotion as reflection. If the consequences of this deprivation are difficult to quantify today, there is no doubt that the living spectacle, because it forces us to lift our heads from this daily, has failed social cohesion. It should not be believed that this sector will recover naturally and alone as soon as the restrictions are lifted, even if each sector has had a lot of creativity to try to regain life, gradually, according to the sanitary instructions. The damage is heavy and if we don't do anything, they could last a long time. It is a danger not only for artists but also for society as a whole. That is why Minister Dermagne's bill before us today is particularly important. It makes it possible to repair, at least in part, the damage caused to artists as a result of the multiple restrictions imposed on them. It's a fair return to a rising sector. It is as much a need for them as it is for the rest of society. It is also a very concrete response by Minister Dermagne to the opposition between artists and those who have been forced to close their trade. There's no time to waste. We need to vote on this bill today. Any manoeuvre to delay its adoption would, for me, be irresponsible. Let us not be mistaken: behind the community arguments of some, there is, above all, a traditional hostility towards a sector that carries a universal message to the antipodes of identity and regionalist ideologies. Minister, you can therefore count on the support of my group, which will vote in favour of your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u82	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the speakers, particularly the opposition. The debate on this draft in committee has been useful and the discussions that have just taken place are a good synthesis of the points of view that have been put forward. I would like to return to two points which have been raised by Mrs Fonck and Mr Anseeuw. I am not saying that a debate cannot take place. It's not a binary question. There is no absolute truth in one sense or another. It is true, Mrs. Fonck, that we might be able to nuance the bearing system. This is about one level, which may be a little rough, as you say. But as soon as you integrate a step or even several additional steps, things become really more complicated. The issue was discussed with ONSS, which is responsible for the practical implementation. I do not want to hide behind him, but, according to him, the system under examination already complicates things because it was not originally planned. In any event, we prefer not to complicate things too much, even if it was an option. As far as I am concerned, I prefer to defend the project as it is, hoping that it is transparent enough for those who want to understand the mechanism. It should be noted that the introduction of several levels complicates the situation at the practical level, but it is also more complicated to understand. Mr Anseuw, you said that an increase of 10% in the employment rate is sufficient to obtain support. I want to nuance that. This 10% applies to large companies. I refer to the previous debate with Mrs Fonck. The complexity lies in the fact that a distinction is made in the size of the company. An increase of 10% in employment is a criterion for large companies employing 500 people. There must also be at least 100 people. That's a considerable employment expansion. That's not a little bit. This complements what you say about that 10 %. It is about 10 % on a large mass with a minimum threshold. The total increase in absolute terms should be equal to 100. This is therefore an important increase in employment. We have opted for a generic measure. I am grateful to you for the kind words at my address, because I am indeed trying to say things as they are, but I have also been a little more nuanced. I have argued in the government with my competent colleagues in favour of a generic measure, and quite deliberately not for a measure which would be administratively aligned or which would privatise certain sectors. This is about relance. We are therefore ignoring the question of which specific sectors and their suppliers have been affected by closures. We're in a broader paradigm now. We want a relance with a generic measure for companies that are here and now expansionary in recruiting because we want to boost it here and now. Then there are two choices. The paradigm of what I have called industrial policy, especially pick the winners. They say that we find these sectors interesting and we do not find others interesting. I am not necessarily opposed to this, but on pick the winners the past 20 to 30 years have come a lot of criticism, because one may be mistaken and because the government is not omniscient. If we want to boost re-employment, we should adopt a generic measure that is not defined on the basis of sectors. I added that we would have a problem with the European Union if we were to pick out certain sectors. This would be selective State aid. In my view, however, this draft does not constitute selective State aid, i.e. no disruption of the market. We do not pick the winners, we do not make sectoral choices, so it is not selective aid. In this sense, it is not a state intervention that disrupts market mechanisms. It does mean support for those who are expanding in the field of employment. I admit that this is not a black and white debate, because every advantage has its drawbacks. The disadvantage of this kind of policy is that an employer who has kept his employment high will not have much fun with the measure. On the other hand, you must not forget that we come from a period when it was easy for an employer to call for temporary unemployment. They did not look at that at all. Those who have used temporary unemployment and are now putting people back to work effectively benefitting from the measure. So that's going to apply to a lot of people. The idea that employers who have tried to keep their people at work against happiness are punished, while we have given all employers the opportunity to deal fairly smoothly with temporary unemployment, I would therefore like to make a considerable difference. We have had an interesting debate on this, but I would like to keep the draft as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for these exchanges which, as Frank Vandenbroucke has said, and in any case as far as I am concerned, are in line with the exchanges we have had in the Economy Committee on this bill, and more specifically on support for artists. First of all, I would like to say that it is not in my head a desire to pass in force and to find a way to help artists because they are artists and because I am on the left, I would be closer to them. No, it's the will to answer questions. You asked me to find a solution week after week. That is what we have done here, I believe. This is not a perfect solution, it is a partial solution and, as has been said from the beginning, it is a compensation for part of the loss of copyright and neighbouring rights for artists, who have been particularly affected by this crisis. As far as the allocation of powers is concerned, I would like to repeat what I said in committee. Firstly, like Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Van Lommel and other colleagues, I fully respect the powers of the various levels and, above all, of the Länder. Secondly, we have not put the opinion of the Council of State beside us. We have supplemented the explanatory memorandum with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on reproduction and copying for private use. As regards private copying, paragraphs 30 and 40 of the Padawan judgment provide that Member States which decide to include the exception for private copying in national legislation are obliged to provide for the payment of fair compensation, which is to be considered as compensation for the disadvantage suffered by the author. Paragraph 30 of SAWP C37/16 applies the same logic with regard to reproduction. In both cases, compensation is the consideration for a loss caused by a decision of the government. Similarly, the compensation constitutes compensation for the damage suffered by rightholders as a result of the application of health measures. Again, I repeat, what is proposed here is part of the constant jurisprudence of these two well-known judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Therefore, we did not remove the opinion of the Council of State from the back of our hand; we responded by completing the explanatory memorandum in a precise manner. Indeed, zero risk does not exist. I'm not gonna hide it from you. An appeal could be brought on the basis of the division of powers. But I do not see who would be in the best interests of bringing this action. Moreover, as I said in committee, it goes without saying that, in the case of a support measure such as this, it is absolutely not the Government's intention to request any reimbursement of this aid. That is a commitment we have made. This is a time-limited measure. It is a limited, targeted and one-off measure. It must be considered in this way. Many of you asked me week after week about the solutions that I could bring to the situation of artists and of the closed businesses that had to pay this contribution to the rights management companies. That is the solution we have found after seeking and negotiating in a complicated institutional framework. I think the answer given today is temporary, unique. I hope that we will no longer have to take such support measures and that we will soon be able to sign up for an exit strategy logic with a return to normal. We also know that additional aid measures will still be needed. I go around companies, I beat the ground day after day and I can assure you that the situation of companies, from a microeconomic point of view, sector by sector, is still worrying in many ways. With regard to more specific issues, why have we excluded producers? Mrs Fonck asked that question. Mrs Van Bossuyt and Mr Van Lommel also asked that question. First, we pay attention to the distribution of skills, whatever you may think. Moreover, in the case of production companies, the support we would have given them would certainly have been to walk on the platforms of other levels of power – in this case, the Regions. Secondly, we need to know that producers' sources of income – I am thinking in particular of SIMIM – have been less affected than those of the authors, for several reasons. First of all, streaming has never been used as much as during the health crisis. A final study thus points to an increase of almost 20% in the year 2020. On the other hand, streaming brings much more to producers and almost nothing to performers. It was therefore also a question of justice and equity, since the specificities of situations should also be taken into account. You also asked me about the various mechanisms for obtaining partial compensation. This may seem complex, but it is because the situation and the work of artists are. Moreover, through all the work carried out on the evolution of the status of artist, we see that the realities are diverse and varied. For this reason, we have used several criteria and compensation mechanisms. With regard to your question on non-affiliated members, I repeat that they will be able to benefit from the support system on the basis of proof of damage. It will therefore be up to them to prove the damage suffered. The flat rate is provided for in the case of an impossibility of providing such proof. That is also why we wanted to integrate this mechanism. Moreover, it is true that, regardless of the covid crisis, live services may have been less numerous in 2020 than in 2019. That is why we have introduced several compensation mechanisms, including for a concert or play that would have been cancelled. There was also talk about the abandonment of the third-party fee. We did not want to use it for two reasons. Firstly, such a mechanism could have been equated with State aid and, therefore, could have been sanctioned by the European Union. Secondly, a number of other support measures have been taken for companies, particularly in the area of horeca. We also wanted to ensure that a commercial gesture could be granted to closed companies. The return of the ground and the negotiations on the basis of contacts with the UCM and UNIZO tell us that things are moving in the right direction. Believe me, I'll pay attention to it! It is important that this rebate be granted. To the question about the discount for Unisono and not for SIMIM and PlayRight, I gave the answer in committee. There is a seasonal rate at SIMIM and PlayRight which can be requested and which takes into account the opening and closing periods. A pro rata may be requested. We have indicated to SIMIM and PlayRight that in the Unisono 2021 invoices that are being sent, there is an explicit possibility to request the application of this seasonal tariff in order to qualify for a rate in proportion to the months of opening and/or closing. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the answers that I wanted to give you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u84	Minister, we have a different interpretation on several points. Our main concern is the issue of competence. Mr Houtmeyers has asked several questions about Unisonophacture. Indeed, we have repeatedly called for you to find a solution, but that does not mean that we have asked you not to respect the division of powers in our country. One doesn't follow from another, of course. It was perfectly possible to find a solution according to the current division of powers by taking measures in social security, but your government has chosen not to. You also argue that the reference to the judgments of the Court of Justice has given an answer to the whole question of the division of powers and to the observations of the Council of State on this matter. That seems very special to me. I have studied European law for a long time, but I have never known that judgments of the Court of Justice and its interpretations can change the constitution of a Member State, let alone the division of powers laid down in it. In fact, the Court of Justice has a Flemish President and I would be very surprised if he agreed that the hierarchy of legal standards could be changed in this way. I think it's a very special argument that you're using here. Finally, as far as producers are concerned, I am still surprised that those who are nevertheless part of the music sector's ecosystem are excluded. With regard specifically to Unisonophacture, the draft law does not actually correspond to Unisonophacture. It only meets half of it, precisely because Unisono is covering both copyright and fair remuneration. The questions about the latter are not answered. So you have not been able to convince me, especially with regard to the division of powers. We will therefore have to vote against the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u85	Minister Vandenbroucke, thank you for your answers to my speech. You are right to say that it is about 10% for large companies with at least 100 employees, but that too is relative, because in my first statement I indicated that everything stands or falls with the starting point. Different companies have different types of business operations. Some companies have made every effort to keep as many workers working as possible, however difficult that may have been. Other companies have used temporary unemployment, which I do not claim to have wrongly done, but they may have done so more than the first group of companies. You say, quite laconically, that employers who have made more efforts than others to keep everyone at work also had the opportunity to take advantage of temporary unemployment. I think that's a rather cynical answer. Your answer actually confirms the point I made in my first explanatory statement. To the employer who now gets less discount, you actually say that he had the opportunity to call in temporary unemployment, which would now give him a higher RSZ discount. I think that's a little special. It confirms the paradigm of the Croo government; that is very clear. I am not concerned, contrary to what you are saying, that certain sectors should not be privileged by giving RSZ discounts and not by giving them. My point is that, if there is any support from the government, it must be strictly necessary and never more than that, which means that it is never about privilege at all. You say the government shouldn't be guided by picking the winners. Instead, however, you are busy picking the winners and picking the losers, as you give everyone RSZ discount. In the opinion of me and my party, the government should do as little picking as possible, and if the government already does, then never more than strictly necessary. You're doing the opposite, because you're giving everyone the RSZ discount. That exposes our fundamental disagreement. It is a far-reaching state intervention, which is actually illegal, as your reply to the Committee on State aid also shows. I refer to the European Convention. We do not agree with that and we remain in favour of it. The answers you have just given to my previous statement confirm just the point I am making. So you did not convince me of the opposite of what I said earlier. On the other hand, you have only confirmed me in my conviction, and you confirm what I am saying. It's not about me wanting to be right about you. I think it is important that we do a service to society and to our economic fabric through this draft law. The thinking of the De Croo government, even though it is led by a liberal, seems to assume maximum government intervention, because it is picking the winners and picking the losers. However, we believe that the government should take this as little as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u86	Mr Vandenbroucke, I think we have exchanged arguments. In this respect, I would have preferred a more equitable approach, in any case for SMEs and the self-employed. Mr Dermagne, I would like to come back very quickly to the Belgian local producers. You won't have to answer me any more - I assure you. At the very least, it seems surprising to me to invoke an argument for the distribution of competences, when it is still a music sector that is really organized, including producers. You say that, for some, federal jurisdiction can be largely justified, but for others, it would not fall at all within federal jurisdiction but rather within the competence of the Regions and Communities. I think that is quite specific from a legal point of view. That's the least we can say, but I hear the message and I'll let them know. Basically, you're referring to the Minister of Culture. I hope, in this respect, that she will not turn, as usual, to the federal government by saying that she is competent for culture but that the federal government must pay. If I may, don't play there with the feet of local Belgian producers. That would absolutely not be acceptable. The second argument that you invoke is that, in substance, they have not been harmed. I don't know where your figures come from and maybe you have more numbers than I do, but in any case, as far as I'm concerned, I see that in 2020, depending on the different income categories, they have lost between 17 and 45 per cent compared to 2019. And for the few months of 2021 for which we have figures, we see that the situation has worsened further. Therefore, to be frank, the arguments you put forward are hardly convincing. Rather, I think it is a pure and hard choice for the government to exclude local Belgian music producers. It is a choice and, of course, Mr.Minister, everyone assumes their choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u87	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u88	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2002/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2002/9) The bill has 31 clauses. The draft law has 31 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u89	At the request of the Vlaams Belang Group, a divided vote on Articles 2 to 12, Article 13, Articles 14 to 26 and Articles 27 to 29 will be taken at a later stage. This before the vote on the whole. At the request of the Vlaams Belangroep, there will be a split vote on Rules 2 to 12, Rules 13, 14 to 26 and Articles 27 to 29. This was before the vote on the whole. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the articles retained and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u91	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u93	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1999/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1999/1) The bill has 315 articles. The draft law has 315 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is our colleague Ahmed Laaouej, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dossier with a wide history. It was introduced by our Prime Minister, the former Minister of Finance, and is now before the vote. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to raise a number of points. This bill was proposed a year ago. The government has tabled two amendments which were adopted in committee. Prime Minister De Croo, then Minister of Finance, spoke in the introductory statement of this bill on the major impact on the healthcare sector. He also mentioned the financial impact of about 20 million on the Treasury. In particular, he expected the greatest impact on the dentists. When Minister Van Peteghem came to the committee to explain the amendments and propose the government's new text, he talked about the wide consultation of the care sector which would have led to these new amendments. The sector, of course, is the whole care sector. The N-VA Group has done its homework and contacted the healthcare sector. To our great surprise we have heard that the professional associations of the dentists were not consulted. So just that group for which the prime minister as a former finance minister expected the greatest impact, was not consulted either by the previous finance minister or by the current one. That's very special, isn't it? Moreover, there are still a number of uncertainties in the text. Minister Van Peteghem referred to this and said he would have a letter drawn up. Much better than drawing up a circular, one should have agreed clear rules and effectively consulted and communicated with the sector itself. Besides the dentists, for example, the dental hygienists were not consulted. Mr Frieda Gijbels, dentist-specialist himself, had a discussion with the Belgian Association of Mondhygiënists, which considered not to be eligible for the VAT exemption. I myself assume, after reading the draft, that dental hygienists will be eligible, but you can see how difficult it is to interpret the text that is now being put to the vote, if a particular healthcare actor does not know what to expect. According to Minister Van Peteghem, the Minister for Health agrees with the text, but I note that neither of them has contacted those two important groups in the healthcare sector. Also special is the fact that the final amendments proposed and approved by the government in committee were no longer proposed to the healthcare sector. You indicated that yourself in the committee, Minister. So you have done a broad consultation of the healthcare sector before you have drawn up the amendments, but you have no longer made any effort to go through the final text you are proposing with the sector to see if the uncertainties have been resolved in the meantime. In addition to these particular remarks, the care sector is not really waiting for the additional administrative VAT costs that the design entails. You indicate that the measure will amount to about EUR 20 million......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, a great deal of red tape is needed to correct VAT compliance for the sector. I repeat what I said in committee: it would have been much easier to exempt medical transactions from VAT and to distinguish between a therapeutic purpose and not a therapeutic purpose through the reimbursement of the RIZIV. You replied, but we are sticking to that statement. In addition to the administrative burden and the financial consequences, the healthcare sector is also facing VAT disputes. I am convinced in that respect that we have not yet come to an agreement. I would like to refer once again to the dispute of EUR 50 million between the Special Tax Inspectorate and the Oost-Limburg Hospital, where there has been a lot to do, where that confidence between the tax authorities and the care has gotten a very big dent, which has crashed like a bomb. I expect that after the adoption of this text the Minister's objective of creating a framework and preventing more legal disputes will not be achieved. Mr De Croo, former Finance Minister, and current Finance Minister, Mr Van Peteghem, stated that the treating physician should, in all conscience, determine the therapeutic purpose of the procedure or treatment and that the treating physician is liable for VAT. Mr Van Peteghem has also expressed great confidence in the healthcare sector. He did not, however, argue that the doctor, dentist or other care provider who will, in all conscience, determine whether there is a therapeutic objective or not, have a guarantee that their decision will not be contested by the tax authorities. Moreover, the VAT inspector's report has a legal value with a special evidentiary value. The facts contained therein therefore constitute evidence of the contrary. The VAT inspector therefore has the legal final say on the findings he makes. In fact, the doctor who acted in his honour and conscience has little message to say about this. There are also many questions about the clarity of that VAT exemption, for example in dental procedures, when a dentist pales teeth, as well as orthodontics. One could say that's aesthetic. However, we all know that teeth that grow across each other give rise to caries. Then this also has a therapeutic purpose. In a conversation with the chairman of the Flemish Professional Association Dentists, it indicates that every dental procedure actually has a therapeutic objective. After all, what do we do with aesthetic interventions that have an impact on mental well-being? How are we going to have these discussions? How shall we refute these arguments? Then how are you going to give the guarantee to the doctor who is responsible, as the text states, that he is protected in his practice? It is also striking that, after a year of consultation, there is still uncertainty as to the intervention of the RIZIV. The question arises as to whether this intervention will be calculated on the total amount, whether or not VAT is included. It is remarkable that no consensus has been reached on this in a year's time. When assessing whether or not to exempt VAT, we will work in two steps. A first step is medical care. According to the Court of Justice, these are services which aim at the diagnosis, treatment and, as far as possible, the cure of diseases and health problems. If the treatment is not covered, it falls outside the scope of the VAT exemption. As far as the second step is concerned, the purpose of the care must be therapeutic, i.e. the protection, preservation and restoration of the health of the patient. But the discussion about preventive and reconstructive medical treatments remains. I didn't get any answers on the committee. I continue to observe that circumcision, breast enlargement, hair transplantation and such therapeutic, religious or aesthetic are, depending on the case. Minister, you say that each individual case must be assessed. There will be discussions about that anyway. In any case, there will be legal disputes. I have also asked you what the course of action will be when a follow-up treatment of non-therapeutic treatment is therapeutic. How will that be dealt with? Minister, I also received an interpretationable answer to that question. The answer was that each medical treatment operation must be assessed separately. The Court of Justice ruled, in the case of therapeutic or non-therapeutic purposes of the treatment, that the decision whether a medical procedure or medical action has a therapeutic purpose can only be taken by qualified staff. Surely we all agree that VAT inspectors and tax inspectors are not qualified to do so? They are not trained to do so. On the other hand, medical care actors are not protected in their practice. I have already mentioned the problem of the administrative burden. That remains, however. While we are all talking about administrative simplification, we are once again putting care actors behind their desks with this additional burden and less on the patient. However, what does the patient mainly need? That's the healthcare actor who can effectively perform the medical treatment. I have already indicated that we continue to believe that disputes about the therapeutic or non-therapeutic nature of medical treatment will increase and will continue to exist. Madam President, that is why we have refined the two amendments that we tabled in committee. We went through them with the sector and had them examined legally. We are convinced that, in the event of a discussion involving fiscal mediation, a binding opinion from a medically trained executive official of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service on medical care insurance and benefits can bring relief and legal certainty to the care actors. We therefore insist on an amendment which states that a binding request for advice can clear up the possible deadlock between a VAT inspector and a healthcare actor, with knowledge of whether or not there is a therapeutic objective. In accordance with our amendment, this request for advice has a suspensive effect on the adoption of any decision, except where the rights of the state treasury would be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u97	A second amendment lays down the powers of that leading official, because it is obviously important that the opinion can be formulated on the basis of sufficient data. The lead official may, therefore, obtain information from whom he considers it necessary, belong to all the persons concerned and make on-the-spot determinations. Moreover, we propose in our amendment that the lead official should produce a report to promote equal VAT treatment of medical records. That report shall be made and transmitted annually to the Minister of Finance and the Chamber of Representatives in such a way that it can be posted on the website. Transparency and clear legislation are necessary for the N-VA Group. We are firmly convinced that it is in the interests of both the patient and the healthcare actor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u98	Minister, we were just talking about my theological training in a very distant past. Well, there is a connection to this draft law, namely the hermeneutics, the study of the interpretation of texts. We have heard it very extensively here from our expert colleague Kathleen Depoorter: therapeutic or non-therapeutic, that's the question. The present draft and the government amendments adopted in committee aim to correct the legal gaps in Articles 44 (1) and 44 (2) of the VAT Code. These gaps have been created by the Constitutional Court's decision to destroy them. You have made a serious effort here, which has a major impact on the healthcare sector. However, the government maintains that there has been a broad consultation of the healthcare sector. The VAT exemption will no longer apply to the care and treatment administered which has no therapeutic purpose, in particular the medical services of an aesthetic nature, regardless of the professional category concerned. Minister, the definition of therapeutic and non-therapeutic acts is imposed on all Member States by European legislation and case law in this area. So you have no other choice, Belgium must provide for that distinction, in the light of the criteria set out in that case-law. However, Mr Depoorter has a point when she says that it is to be expected that many individual cases will cause interpretation difficulties. However, you are strongly committed to creating a reliable legal framework for the non-approved professions for the possible application of the VAT exemption. This is called into question by Mr Depoorter. In your opinion, this is about ensuring a legally correct and reasonable application of the VAT exemption provided for in the VAT Directive in the case of medical care. The great ambition is to prevent us from having legal uncertainties again in the future, as has been the case in recent years. This has already been outlined by my colleague. For non-conventionals there will be a notification obligation. This will be the subject of a circular which will deal with all the issues relating to the VAT exemption and, as you said in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it will therefore be necessary to draw up a nuance - in consultation with the sector. In any case, the Flemish interest believes that the amendments of the N-VA cut wood and enjoy some credibility. I am referring above all to knowingly assessing whether a treatment serves a therapeutic purpose or not. You should think carefully about whether tax inspectors are sufficiently qualified as medical personnel to assess medical treatment for their therapeutic purposes. In my view, Mrs Depooster's amendments are not as unwise as regards the binding opinion of a leading official of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. We will therefore support these amendments, Minister, and since we believe that the majority will not do so, I can already tell you that we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u99	Minister, I have listened very carefully to the two colleagues, but I think it is important to give a correct picture of the history. On the basis of what the previous speakers have said, it would be assumed that this is a completely new piece of legislation. So it's not. The legislation dates back to 2015 when then Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt further developed a draft on the tax shift. This was a VAT exemption; the distinction that was introduced at the time was aesthetic versus not aesthetic. It is that arrangement, which was finally brought before the Constitutional Court and which he destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u100	Mr President, very briefly. The colleague also referred to the 2015 tax shift in committee. I contacted then Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt, who confirmed that the measure indeed came at the request of the CD&V Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u101	That arrangement was then worked out by the then Minister of Finance. The distinction introduced was aesthetic versus not aesthetic. That arrangement was finally destroyed by the Constitutional Court. What we are doing now is remedying legislation that was technically developed at the time. There are three things that bother me. Firstly, it appears that this is a new regulation. That is not the case; it has been applied all these years, including by dentists and practitioners of other medical professions, who were then covered. Secondly, unrest is being stirred up by referring again to, among other things, a conflict with the BBI over EUR 50 million. Just so we're clear, that's not about VAT at all. It's about secret commissions and it's got nothing to do with this. But that's all being thrown into one pot. Thirdly, it seems as if there is a choice and we are all here together deciding whether to pay VAT or not to pay VAT. Well, we have to follow European rules and we have to work them out. That's what's in store here. On the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court and judgments of the Court of Justice and European directives, this will be a stable legislation which has been consulted with the sector and which has been adapted to our health system in particular. I'm declaring myself. For the sake of clarity, this is about Article 44 on VAT exemption. What's the system like? Where this exemption applies, VAT is in principle not subject to VAT and there is no need to report it. The VAT exemption for medical professions is therefore included. There they no longer distinguish between aesthetic and non-aesthetic, but between therapeutic and non-therapeutic. That's the shift we're bringing here. This adjustment also extends the group that will be exempted. Nothing is actually said about this, but osteopoates, homeopaths and so on are currently also covered by the exemption. If, for some reason, a medical profession does not engage in therapeutic practices and therefore is not covered by the exemption and is actually subject to VAT, then there is still the exemption for small businesses up to EUR 25,000. That's the system as it is here. What is important then, the ultimate goal of this VAT exemption, is that our medical care is made accessible and our medical organisation is not compromised. In this respect, I think it is important to stress that both the explanatory statement and the explanatory statement of the amendments make it very clear that the relevant, factual and legal context must be taken into account as far as the therapeutic objective is concerned. That was explicitly included and is very important for our hospitals. On the basis of that provision, it is possible to avoid, for example, applying 21 % VAT to chief doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u102	Mr Matheï, I have not spoken about the extension to chiropractors and osteopaths. The N-VA supports this and has already argued in favour of it in the previous legislature. The problem revolves around the concepts of therapeutic and non-therapeutic. A very clear line can be drawn between aesthetic and non-aesthetic, but what aesthetic surgery is therapeutic and what aesthetic surgery is non-therapeutic? The VAT inspector is not medically trained, so he cannot interpret the possible therapeutic nature of the aesthetic treatment. The amendment we are introducing on this subject has been discussed with the people in the sector, who say that the legal uncertainty for the care actors is too great if the text before us is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u103	Mrs Depoorter, if you are suggesting that there will now be a discussion that did not exist five or six years ago, I would advise you to contact your contacts again, because they will be able to tell you what discussion has taken place at that time about aesthetic and non-aesthetic interventions. I think that the Minister has also made it very clear that the assessment of the therapeutic or non-therapeutic nature of the procedure is the responsibility of the doctor, and so it should be. The doctor is bound by certain rules and also by the Order of Doctors. Based on his or her medical insights, the doctor will explain whether surgery is therapeutic or non-therapeutic. There will of course be some doubts, but the Minister has indicated that there will be a circular to deal with them. That is nothing new, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u104	Mr Matheï, I stand by my point. You are now saying that there will be discussions. Those discussions are not checked out in the text before us. As a result, legal uncertainty remains as to the therapeutic or non-therapeutic nature of an intervention. You say that the doctor bound by the Order will judge with honor and conscience. The Minister has indicated that if the doctor does not agree, he has all possible legal aspects to challenge it. We stick to the fact that the special burden of proof of VAT inspectors applies, and that it will then be up to the doctor to prove that it is therapeutic or non-therapeutic. How are we going to mold that? The adoption of our amendment will enable us to obtain a binding opinion from a medical practitioner, which will enable us to decide on an independent basis whether a therapeutic end is present or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u105	Mr President, first of all, VAT legislation has never been detailed for each individual case. Not at European level, not in any country, and therefore not with us. That's not how VAT works, just to be clear. We must be very aware of that. Of course, it is important that there is clarity. This can be done through circulars as there have been in the past and as there will be in the future. That way it will be dealt with. I'm going back to the hospitals, because that's where I came from. In addition, it was important that certain profiles in hospitals should also be included in the therapeutic objective. But for hospitals it is also important that all services closely related to the medical treatment of therapeutic purposes are included. That's also anchored. This is in itself an important part of the discussion with the networks. In short, it is argued in Europe that there should be a distinction between therapeutic and non-therapeutic, and not between aesthetic or non-aesthetic. We've already had that proposal and it's been destroyed. That has now been implemented in this law. The Minister has indicated that he will clearly clarify a number of issues in the circular, should there be any doubts. In this way, I believe that the problem with the legislation has been remediated and adapted in a logical and clear way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u106	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I will make it clear that we will support this draft law and explain why we will support it. This is a necessary reform of the VAT exemption for hospital and non-hospital medical care, both in terms of the nature of the services provided and in terms of the capacity of the service providers themselves. This is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 5 December 2019 and is also consistent with the established case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The draft law itself provides for a degree of flexibility which is necessary, including a certain degree of enlargement that is necessary. On the one hand, the persons enjoying that VAT exemption are clarified and extended. It is not just the healthcare professions that are covered by the 2015 law. It is also about all those care professions that are legally framed, such as the homeopaths, osteopaths, accupuncturists and chiropractors, and the professionals who hold a certificate from an institution recognised by the government. In addition, the nature of the services is being extended. This is also necessary and important, although the basic rule remains that only therapeutic transactions are exempt from VAT. Now, however, there are exceptions, including for services closely related to nursing and medical care and the supply of goods in hospitals, provided that they are indispensable and do not essentially aim at additional returns. That's kind of important, isn't it? There is also a problem with chief doctors, service heads and the like in hospitals and residential care centres today. They can rightly be exempt from VAT as this is important in the light of better quality health care. On the other hand, there was also a problem, if I have understood correctly, with the establishment of the hospital networks, particularly when hospitals provide services to other hospitals and it is essentially necessary services and not to generate additional revenue. That too will be possible. I do not know to what extent the whole healthcare sector has been consulted. However, I am well aware that there were some areas of tension with the hospital sector, which has been consulted. There is no doubt that the greed and the opinion of the Council of State have been met. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u107	Mrs Vanpeborgh, let me clarify something. You're saying you don't know who's been consulted or not. However, I repeat what I said just now, namely that it is special that your Minister of Vooruit, Mr Vandenbroucke, did not consult the dentists, who are really referred to as the most involved actors. That really is a mistake, which must be corrected by means of the circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u108	Mrs Depoorter, you take the words out of my mouth. That would be my answer as well. It's important to consult. Mr. Secretary, I'm looking at you, too. In committee, a number of concerns have been expressed by Members about the confusion between therapeutic and non-therapeutic, although I believe that even if the RIZIV track were chosen, there will be discussions about therapeutic or non-therapeutic. However, there was a concern about this confusion. Minister, you have answered this very clearly by saying that we are relying on the medical world somewhere. We have to get out of there. They should start from the question of whether or not the treatment is therapeutic. This will probably be different on a case-by-case basis. That's a certain element you've put in. However, it is also important to have the circular, which should be drawn up in consultation with the whole healthcare sector. In this way we will be able to avoid confusion in the future. It is, of course, important to involve all the actors in the healthcare sector, as you said. We are quite reassured by the Minister's answers and want to send a clear signal by supporting the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u109	Mr President, my colleague has spoken of a clear signal and I must admit that I am quite surprised. If this bill has one feature, it is about its content, which remains full of uncertainties and questions that will potentially have an impact on caregivers and patients, as well as on hospitals and other health care institutions. There will also be an increase in the administrative burden and many disputes may arise. Minister, an interpretative circular is announced by the end of the year. The ability of this circular to lift the blur does not reassure me entirely. I have read the travaux préparatoires, which are still an important basis for interpreting a law, and I would like to give you four examples. The first concerns your remarks: "With regard to the treatment of follow-up of a medical act without therapeutic purpose, the minister replied that the therapeutic purpose of each medical act must be assessed separately. It is of course less likely a priori but certainly not excluded that a follow-up treatment following a medical act without therapeutic purpose could itself have a therapeutic objective." I have read and read this sentence and am curious to see how an interpretative circular will translate this central paragraph. With regard to hospitals and in particular networks, I read to you: "Every act of cooperation must be determined individually, whether such acts are indispensable or a necessary condition for the carrying out of acts for therapeutic purposes." I imagine you know that, but in all the collaborations that hospitals have put in place, there are things that are very clear and obviously specific to health care in general. But you also have a whole series of other commons that concern logistics, the laboratory, things that sometimes have absolutely nothing to do with, and that could be, when I read you, directly considered as non-therapeutic. Of course, it is not just the caregivers or hospitals that are involved. I am thinking in particular of the care of the elderly, the nursing homes, the care of the disabled, all sectors which are also potentially affected. The question of "who" and "what" will be subject to VAT in the health and personal care sector generally remains today an immense question mark for a whole part of the services performed or care that some will call borderline and which are sometimes complications of an act that was not at all therapeutic. All this will obviously give rise to interpretations, whose modeling you have planned also suggests a variable geometry interpretation. It will therefore be a matter for tax inspectors to determine whether the purpose is therapeutic or not, with all health actors in the most general sense of the term. I have a great deal of respect for tax inspectors, but I still have a lot of questions about their ability to judge a medical record and how they will interpret the type of care. This also raises the question of whether the medical confidentiality will be fully and properly respected. Should I remind you, minister, that during this crisis of the covid, there were tax interventions that were particularly badly experienced, in a very aggressive way on the ground? You can imagine how hard it has been to manage on the part of hospitals, particularly in the midst of a covid crisis and under the maximum permanent pressure. I don't know if you know this phrase, "When there's blur, there's a wolf." I'm telling you. I find that it sums up the content of this text and, above all, the way in which tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, all this will be achieved on the ground, interpreted in a variable geometry, with significant insecurity, and therefore an important impact, not only on the structures of care but also on the caregivers, not to mention also, potentially, the patients. For all these reasons, we will vote against it and we will be particularly vigilant about the way in which you will put into practice a circular which will have to interpret, in particular, what you have said during the committees and the work here in Parliament. The amendments you have made have tried to make things very vague more precise. What I note is that these amendments are the result of the consultation you have made with part of the sector. But you have left out some caregivers who are, however, directly and fully involved in this bill. I am thinking, for example, of the dentists, whose predecessor said - it is written black and white in the report - that they would be directly affected by this bill. However, they were not agreed either on the text or on the amendments. This is obviously a choice. I remember that at the beginning of his appointment, the Vivaldi government had declared that the great change would manifest itself through consultation on all health matters. But, month after month, we are called upon to complete the list of consultations which have not taken place on projects which nevertheless directly affect these professions and which will potentially have consequences for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u110	Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that there has been a great deal of consultation with the actors involved. Their comments have been listened very carefully and, as far as possible, addressed their wishes and aspirations, insofar as this is, of course, European law to be defended and taken into account. My cabinet and the administration have spent a great deal of time in this area over the last few months with the intention of submitting these government amendments and thus reaching this conclusion. As has already been said, today's vote is not an end. Several speakers from both the majority and the opposition have already referred to the circular which still needs to be worked out. That is why the present draft will not enter into force until 1 January 2022. In this way, we will once again sit around the table with all the actors involved to see how we will answer the many outstanding practical questions, because it is ultimately about the practical implementation of this regulation. What is before us today is, of course, not a free choice. We know that there was a bill on which the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2018 came, and this bill follows that judgment. We must now, of course, ensure legal certainty for an important sector in our country. That is my responsibility and I accept it by presenting it here today. Mrs Depoorter, you said just now that the latest versions of the government amendments were no longer submitted to the sector. At some point, of course, one has to take political responsibility. The draft was drawn up after extensive consultation with the actors concerned. It is balanced and supported by the government and by my colleague responsible for health, as it meets all the concerns and expectations of the health sector. We therefore assume our political responsibility to provide the sector with the legal certainty necessary after the judgment of the Constitutional Court. There were some questions that were already raised in committee. I refer first of all to the answers I gave there, but I would like to make a few points. First of all, I have full confidence in the expertise and ethics of our medical professionals. I would like to stress once again that the problem of the qualification of medical treatment is not new and is not made more acute in the context of this draft. My administration has always shown a great deal of understanding for the medical sector in this area. I indicated in committee that we could consider, for example, the current rules, which also apply to ethical interventions and treatments. Again, we will look in the circular which is the best method. Of course, we will do so together with the sector. There is another point I would like to raise, the criterion of therapeutic purpose. We are pretending to have a lot of opportunities for this, but that criterion follows from the case law of the European Court of Justice. That's a definite fact that we can't do much about in se. I am convinced that what we have here today, the draft law with the amendments tabled, is sufficiently robust to meet the comments of the Constitutional Court, while also providing us with sufficient flexibility to ensure that the optimal functioning of the health sector is not harmed. We will develop a circular, in consultation with the health sector actors, to answer the existing questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u111	Minister, you have done your best in your reply to stress once again that there has been and has been consultation with the sector. I have never denied that, but my point is and remains that there is no consultation with the sector group that will have the most impact of the design. You cannot deny that it is a mistake on the part of your administration or yourself that the last year has not taken the time or made the effort not to consult with that group, which, in last year's meeting's report, is very clearly stated by your predecessor. I think that's really special. You reject the statement that there has not been a discussion with the healthcare sector, but you are an important group that is experiencing major consequences of the design. You did not recognise them in order to shape the amendments. This leaves us with a text that still has a lot of questions and a lot of finesse missing. That's why you need to work out a circular in the second sitting time. It is really painful for you, as a minister, to have to come to the plenary with an unfinished text, which means that you need to consult with the care sector again in order to develop a circular. We will not get out of the discussion about therapeutic and non-therapeutic. I would like to believe that you have confidence in the healthcare sector, but in fact we have to assume that your tax inspectors will follow the doctor's judgement. The bottom line is that the doctor will decide whether or not VAT will be paid. Finally, you say that you cannot interpret the text so much, but our amendment is just a means of ensuring that there are no legal disputes about not being able to interpret therapeutic and non-therapeutic, because we would involve an independent, medically trained lead official in any discussion about it. I therefore ask you once again to consider our amendment, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u112	Mr Depoter, on your communication on the second sitting time, I would like to say very clearly that VAT legislation is drawn up in accordance with European directives. We are applying this now. As with many other VAT provisions, cases are refined in a decision of the administration or in a circular. What you call second sitting time is exactly the same as what Minister Van Overtveldt did with the previous regulation, namely a provision in the VAT Lawbook, as it should be, and the elaboration in consultation with the sector in a circular or administrative decision. So I think it is a little far-fetched that you are making it appear that it is a second one, because the logical way in which VAT legislation works is actually followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u113	Mr Matheï, in a second sitting, we have the opportunity to correct past mistakes. One of the mistakes to be corrected is that there is a need to contact the dentists, that they are involved in this very important discussion for their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u114	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u115	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1369/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1369/5) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u116	• 6 - Kathleen Depoorter cs (1369/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u118	The term of office of the members of Committee P expires on 30 May 2022, with the exception of that of the Chairperson. With the exception of the President, the term of office of the members of the P Committee shall expire on 30 May 2022. In accordance with article 4 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Chamber appoints the five effective members of Committee P, including a President, a Vice-President and two alternates per effective member. In accordance with Article 4 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the coordination body for the threat analysis, the Chamber appoints the five members of the P Committee, including one chairman and one vice-president and two alternates per working member. The chairman except, Committee P comprises as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. With the exception of the president, the P Committee has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. The members of Committee P shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years, which shall take effect from the date of their swearing-in. The members of the P Committee shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years starting from their swearing-in. As the term of office of the Speaker has not yet ended, the House must appoint four effective members (including one Vice-President), four first alternates and four second alternates. Since the President's term of office has not yet expired, the Chamber should appoint four working members (including a Vice-President), four first alternates and four second alternates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u119	By letter of 16 June 2021, Mr Luc Lavrysen, President of the Constitutional Court, states that in the Belgian Moniteur of 16 June 2021, it was announced that a vacancy is to be filled for the office of French-speaking judge following the retirement of Mr François Daugu on 15 September 2021. By letter dated 16 June 2021, Mr Luc Lavrysen, President of the Constitutional Court, announced that a vacancy for the office of French-speaking judge would be published in the Belgian Official Journal of 16 June 2021 as a result of the resignation of Mr François Daoût on 15 September 2021. In accordance with article 32, paragraph 1, of the Special Act of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court, judges of the Court are appointed for life by the King on a double list, alternately presented by the House of Representatives and the Senate. The list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court, the judges of the Court are appointed for life by the King from a list of two candidates, in turn nominated by the Chamber of Representatives and by the Senate. The list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The President of the Constitutional Court states that it is now up to the House to present a list. The President of the Constitutional Court states that it is now up to the Chamber to propose a list. This vacancy will be filled on the basis of Article 34(1) of the Special Law (Professional Legal Category). The vacancy will be provided on the basis of Article 34, § 1, 1°, of the special law (category "professional lawyer"). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u120	Since the number of votes cast is insufficient, we must postpone the counting of these ballots to the plenary meeting on 8 July 2021. Since the number of votes cast is insufficient, we should postpone the inclusion of these votes to the plenary session of 8 July 2021. Members may vote until Thursday, 8 July 2021, at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. Members may vote until Thursday 8 July 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. I would like to remind you that: - only members may receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box; - the proposal for naturalization laws cannot be signed; - if the member does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant, the name of the applicant shall be deleted from the list given to him; - the ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 8 July 2021. I would remind you that: - only members may receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box; - the proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed; - where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him; - the urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session of Thursday 8 July 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u121	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the principles of Belgian legislation on the duty of vigilance aimed at protecting human rights, labour rights and environmental standards and applying to businesses throughout their value chains, No 2050/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the principles of Belgian legislation on the protection of human rights, labour rights and environmental standards in companies throughout the value chain, No. 2050/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on External Relations. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on External Relations. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u122	As stated in its mission (DOC 55 1462/001), the terms of reference of the special commission to examine the independent state of the Congo (1885-1908) and the colonial past of Belgium in the Congo (1908-1960), Rwanda and Burundi (1919-1962), its consequences and the appropriate follow-up to them, shall expire on 17 July 2021. As stated in its mandate (DOC 55 1462/001), the mandate of the Special Committee responsible for the investigation of the Congo Free State (1885-1908) and the Belgian colonial past in Congo (1908-1960), Rwanda and Burundi (1919-1962), the impact of this and the consequences to be given to it on 17 July 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that the term of office be extended until 17 July 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that the mandate be extended until 17 July 2022. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u123	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u124	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 22 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 22 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 139/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 139/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in its policy statement, the Federal Government has indicated that it wants to encourage more people to take the train, to improve links with foreign rail networks, to extend the range of rail services and to make a strong commitment to multimodal and collective mobility. In the light of these objectives and the many problems already encountered with overcrowded trains towards the coast, SNCB carried out a first test on 5 and 6 June with the so-called Coast Express. These are extra direct trains that run to and from the coast without stops, i.e. directly, and for which passengers have to make reservations in advance. Together with other corona security measures, the Coast Express and, above all, the mandatory reservation must ensure that the rail and the coast can handle a large influx of tourists without problems. The test has now been evaluated as successful, so that several additional train connections can be traced directly to the coast from Brussels-South, Antwerp-Central, Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Liège-Guillemins. In the past, I have repeatedly supported Limburg's rail transport and have already denounced the inadequate supply of trains to and from Limburg. Limburg is locked up rather than unlocked on rail connections in the wider region. It is striking and acidic to note that the province of Limburg is also completely excluded from the offer of the Coast Express trains and not only in the roll-out of the project. Limburg was ignored by policy makers and SNCB even before the test phase. No Coast Express train will drive from Limburg to the coast. It seems as if the Limburgers would rather not be welcomed on the coast. However, the journey time to and from the coast for Limburgers is much longer than for travellers who are allowed to use the Coast-Express offer from other starting points. In addition, for their return journey, which would take place at about the same time, Limburg's coastal visitors would really benefit from a direct train back to their province. I regret, therefore, that no Limburg MEP in this House denounces this situation. It is therefore on behalf of Flemish Interest that I ask the government to take the necessary measures immediately to ensure that Limburg is included in the NMBS' Coast Express offer by means of its own Coast Express train connection and that the Limburg train passengers are thus assured of a corona-safe and comfortable train journey to and from the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u126	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u127	Yes 79 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u128	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 23 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 23 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 140/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 140/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u129	Yes 81 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u130	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 23 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 23 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 141/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 141/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u131	Yes 82 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u132	These inquiries were developed in the Public Justice Commission of 23 June 2021. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 23 June 2021. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 143/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 143/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u133	Madam President, allow me to begin my justification by quoting a victim. "This obviously does not correspond at all to the request of a victim, in any case not to mine. We have friends, even though it's hard to tell them about the attacks so many years later. There is no point in adding a false boyfriend who has no required qualifications and is not bound by any professional secrecy. This could only add an inadequate response to a lack of response." This testimony is one of those we received from victims following the decision of the Minister of Justice to put in place a coaching project. The Commission of Inquiry into the Attacks made a report and made recommendations that are supported by the victims and that meet their expectations. These recommendations call for the creation of a victim-requested Guarantee Fund, which exists in other countries to provide victims with State care with a single procedure and compensation. Another recommendation is the extension of foreclosure periods to allow victims who have not submitted their case in time – which is understandable, since they are still in shock – to be able to do so now. None of this has been put in place. Worse: the Minister of Justice comes with a coaching project whose stakeholders do not even see the relevance. Worse still, this project is not managed by the State, since the government simply pays a subsidy of EUR 300 000 to the victims' associations to wash their hands. "Come on, here's 300,000 euros, and get along!" Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, such a lack of consideration and respect for the victims is outrageous. I regret that a simple motion has been tabled, because it will not allow this debate to take place in this House, when it is indispensable and essential. Victims expect an adequate response to their situation. The Minister of Justice's proposal does not meet their expectations at all. I find that the treatment accorded to them is deeply disrespectful and unworthy of a State, since it does not respect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than five years ago our country was hit by terrible attacks. We have come out bruised but also powerless with regard to all these victims who will bear all their lives the consequences of these events. Except we are elected of the people! We therefore had a responsibility to inform and accompany all these victims at best. That is why the Commission of Inquiry Attentats has carried out - I must point out - a remarkable work with recommendations, it is impossible to be clear, to the government. But today, it is clear that the victims still feel abandoned by our authorities. The process remains cumbersome and innumerable. Fortunately, associations have in fact formed quickly to remedy these shortcomings. On 22 March 2021, one of these associations was granted a subsidy of EUR 300 000 for a project to coach victims, which is expected to begin today. It is obviously a useful project to help the victims rebuild. However, the second largest association of victims, Life4Brussels, will not benefit from a single euro. However, this association was recognized by royal decree in 2017. It has its headquarters in Brussels. It supports no less than 517 victims on a daily basis. In addition, it formed a collective of 13 lawyers. In committee, the minister was simply unable to justify what is nothing but discrimination between associations, and therefore between the victims themselves. He has not, moreover, yet defined the most serious cases to which this coaching would be reserved. He also announced to us a royal decree that would specify the criteria for granting this subsidy, except that this order has not yet been published. With regard to transparency vis-à-vis Parliament, but also with the victims who are constantly asking for us, you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that this is frankly very limited. This decision is all the more incomprehensible because it goes totally counter-current of what the Attentats Commission advocated, but also the Prime Minister himself at the commemoration ceremonies on March 22. I quote: "We must do better. We can leave no one, no one, on the side." Four months later, it must be noted that the government continues to clear its responsibility to support all victims and, therefore, all the associations that represent them. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that you will not support this outright motion, but our motion for a recommendation in that it seeks transparent and professional support to which all victims are entitled, without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u135	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u136	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u138	Madam President, very briefly. Yesterday we could not intervene because of circumstances, but when I hear transatlantic relations, I naturally feel addressed as a representative and leader of our Belgian delegation to the NATO Parliament. By Mr Freilich, we have intervened several times in committee and have determined our voting position. I think that we abstained at that time, because we had a number of comments and objections. We thought it was rather paternalistic for the Belgian Parliament to say what the great America should do in the coming years. It's a little babysitting, isn't it? The United States is in a good flow. The transatlantic relationships are very important for the free West, for our future, for our way of life, our way of life. This will only become more important in the coming years. With President Biden's election, that is effectively moving in the right direction. We also noticed this two weeks ago in Brussels at the NATO Summit, which took place in a very different atmosphere than in recent years. That is only positive and to be welcomed. Despite our reservations on a number of questions raised in the resolution, we have seen that the majority has tabled a number of correct and correct amendments. This is the Fourth of July week. More than 200 years ago, the declaration of independence of the most powerful country in the world took place. It's one of the cradles of our Western way of life. We will therefore be pleased to vote in favour of this resolution with the N-VA Group, the largest in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u139	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u140	Yes 107 Yes No. [[10]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u142	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u144	Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u146	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u147	Yes 88 Yes Non 46 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1603/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1603/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u149	Yes 83 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u150	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Reccino Van Lommel to Title 2 (Articles 2 to 12).(2002/10) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Reccino Van Lommel on Title 2 (Articles 2 to 12).(2002/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u151	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Articles 2 to 12.(2002/9) Vote on Articles 2 to 12.(2002/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u152	Yes 88 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, Articles 2 to 12 were adopted. Accordingly, articles 2 to 12 were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u153	Vote on Article 13.(2002/9) Vote on Article 13.(2002/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u154	Yes 135 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, Article 13 was adopted. Accordingly, article 13 was adopted. Vote on Rules 14 to 26.(2002/9) Vote on Articles 14 to 26.(2002/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u155	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, Articles 14 to 26 were adopted. Accordingly, articles 14 to 26 were adopted. Vote on Rules 27 to 29.(2002/9) Vote on Articles 27 to 29.(2002/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u156	Yes 101 Yes No. [[26]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, Articles 27 to 29 were adopted. Accordingly, articles 27 to 29 were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u158	Yes 78 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u160	Yes 78 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 56 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u161	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an article 3/1 (n).(1369/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an Article 3/1 (n).(1369/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u162	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an article 3/2 (n).(1369/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an Article 3/2 (n).(1369/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u163	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u165	Yes 75 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-01-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip116x.u166	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 8 July 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 8, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
