ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u1	Ms. Song, the principle of publicizing police council sessions cannot be respected in the current circumstances of the health crisis. These are held in a virtual manner. My administration, in collaboration with the Unions of Cities and Municipalities of the various Regions, recommends that, in the event of postponement of the sitting and/or limitation of advertising, the mayor-president should take a decision to that effect, in accordance with Article 25, § 8 of the law you are quoting. On the other hand, the minutes of these meetings must in fact always be made available on the website of the police zone, even if the sessions take place in a virtual manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u2	Madam Minister, thank you. I can hear your answer, but this is a case where advertising is not done. Although most of the meetings are held today on a virtual basis, it is noted that the agenda and VPs of some sessions are not communicated on the website. That is a problem. I'm going to look at what we can do with the current covid standards. I will not fail to come back to you later so that we can make sure that the advertising is done properly as the law provides.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u3	Madam Minister, in the meantime, the problem of migrants in Zeebrugge is well known to you. Along with Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi, you already made a place visit to discuss the situation. It remains a problematic situation, but the transmigrants have been taking more and more risks lately, endangering their lives. Thus, in the hope of making the crossing to Great Britain, they carry out dangerous manoeuvres to jump on freight trains at the time they are split up in the Swankendamme marshalling station and or assembled to drive towards port area. There are those who jump from a bridge on the freight trains or on a truck where they try to make a hole in a sail. Often they do not know how long some containers stand and it is no coincidence that several emergency calls from transmigrants have already arrived. In the last two weeks, at least four rescue operations have been undertaken. Our police services carry out additional checks and problems around weak spots, such as the armiesite domain Knaps, are addressed by placing additional cameras and a new fence. We row with the belts that we have as local government. However, I fear that, given the current situation, this may not be enough. In November, you paid a working visit to Zeebrugge to deal with the problem of migration. In the meantime, was there a follow-up to the work visit and the arrangements that were made at that time? Addressing trafficking in human beings and smuggling is one of your policy priorities. Have any targeted police actions been organised in Zeebrugge since your visit in November? If so, how much? If not, do you plan it on a regular basis, considering that during the Easter holiday we expect a lot of people by the sea and that we best avoid mixing transmigrants and tourists? The administrative workload and long lead times for handling a file require a lot of police capacity. Were you already with your colleague Mahdi in order to simplify and speed up the procedure? The transmigrants are partly relocating their terrain because the port area and the freeway parkings are well and better secured. Do you see any additional possibilities to strengthen control outside those areas in order to support the local police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u4	Madam Secretary, I think my questions as tabled are clear. I have presented them to you and to the Secretary of State at various times, but you continue to refer to each other. He also formally refers to you for the question of where a transmigrant is released after he or she was arrested. So I would very much like an answer from you to that question, Madam Secretary. Where exactly are they released? What is the procedure for ascension? I still haven't received an answer to that either. How is a new attempt prevented after an ascension? There's also an increase. How do you explain the increase? How do you deal with that? Those questions have been the ball in a ping-pong game between you and the Secretary of State for some time now. I hope you can give me an answer now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u5	Mr Demon, shortly after my visit I consulted the Governor of West Flanders and representatives of various port companies. The action points we discussed at the time are further developed in various working groups, in which my cabinet, that of the Secretary of State and the various administrations are represented. We are also considering whether we can schedule a follow-up meeting this spring. There are continuous police actions against transmigrants and smugglers in West Flanders, especially in Zeebrugge, in the form of targeted checks in the port of Zeebrugge, in buildings in the area, so called hotspots, in the stations, at tram stops and on public transport. Let it be clear that other partners, such as De Lijn, are also involved in this, together with the integrated police. In any case, daily checks are organized, including checks on intrusion of cargo destined for the United Kingdom, by our police forces and the UK border force. This is done with CO2 meters and control dogs, accompanied by the intervention corps or the shipping police of our integrated police. In addition, the dog support department of the federal police monitors for intrusion almost daily and the cargoscanners of the shipping police and customs are also deployed daily, each with regard to their powers. Finally, there are also targeted inspections of the refrigerated containers by the dog support department and the technical support service of the shipping police. There is certainly regular contact with the Secretary of State and the improvement of procedures and follow-up will of course also be discussed during these discussions. Transit migrants, but especially smugglers, are constantly adapting to changing circumstances and controls. They then search for locations outside the port, to climb in trailers or to walk on trams towards Zeebrugge, or they head to the Swankendamme and the Knapen domain, where it has been established several times that transmigrants crawl through the fence and cross the tracks in the direction of P&O. There is a weekly operational meeting of the coordination and support management with the services of the General Directorate of Administrative Police in West Flanders. These so-called hotspots are also discussed and support from the intervention corps can be requested when certain developments are identified. Moreover, the patrol schedule of the intervention corps is adapted to the changing hotspots, so that there is indeed a short play on the ball. Indeed, the last week of February saw an increase in the number of interceptions in West Flanders compared to the previous weeks. However, this increase was rather limited. A total of 4% more migrants were found than in January. This figure is lower than in the previous two months, i.e. 16% lower than in November and 36% lower than in December. Moreover, the evolution of the figures depends on a number of parameters. Transmigration is a European fact and Belgium is a transit country where West Flanders, especially Zeebrugge, works as a bottleneck for transit migrants. The flow of migrants is therefore also highly dependent on the approach at the European external borders. Furthermore, the supply of migrants also depends on the methodology and strategy used by smugglers. This always looks forward to appropriate opportunities and adapts to the changing circumstances. Other parameters include regular police checks, the organisation of targeted actions based on technical information, ad hoc actions based on real-time information, the presence or absence of private surveillance in, inter alia, port companies, and certainly the aftermath of the Brexit, where transit migrants still wanted to move to the UK quickly. Probably got those people stuck in Zeebrugge. Finally, climatic conditions also have an impact on the figures of transmigration. Climbing in trucks is determined on the basis of targeted checks by the federal and local police and on the basis of concrete information, sometimes from transmigrants themselves, calling the emergency services from the trucks. When they are found, both the statutory administrative and judicial procedures shall be carried out. The administrative handling consists of the application of three measures: a photograph and a fingerprint is taken and there is the individual description. DVZ will also be contacted and then his decision will be implemented. The judicial procedure consists of the preparation of a CV and, where appropriate, the further investigation into human trafficking. On the basis of that investigation, the parquet magistraat will be contacted or not, after which the decision of the parquet will be carried out. In the event of intrusion into the port area, the rapid legal procedure can also be applied since 2016. When it is decided not to arrest or to lock up the migrants administratively, they will be released again, as it is appropriate. The impact on drivers is indeed very large. In any case, together with the whole transport sector, they can form an important link in the transmigration approach chain by accepting their responsibility to permanently control the cargo and to reduce the possibility of ascension to the maximum through additional security. After the administrative procedure the transit migrants are released at the place of service of the decision of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In order to prevent transit migrants from making further attempts to ascension after their release, the integrated police services have been making a continuous effort since 2015 with targeted checks, monitoring actions, the use of search dogs and a cargoscanner, effective handling, good contacts and arrangements with the DVZ and cooperation with external partners such as customs and the UK border force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u6	Madam Secretary, as always, you were completely to the point. A lot of business is being done. We need to really try to deal with some things. At some point, you're talking about the transmigrants. It is the responsibility of Mr Mahdi, but we must tackle this together. I have also advocated a task force with Mr Mahdi. The transmigrant is arrested and released too often immediately. I have figures of that, too. Those numbers are huge. That's not good for the transmitter himself. It must be helped and it must know what its rights and obligations are. However, it is also not good for the community, for example in Zeebrugge. The proposal made by Mayor Van Nuffel, Chief of Police, to hold on to these people for a while and to accompany them so that they do not retake their efforts to the United Kingdom is a good proposal. I notice a great deal of commitment to you. I also note that you do not adhere to the former means. The problem in the port area itself has already been solved in part. However, it is shifting to the polder villages. We therefore call for further support. I also told the city council yesterday that you and your colleague are working on it. In a previous committee I was talking about the horses that are on the road for four hours with two riders, then patrolling for a few hours in Zeebrugge. I call for that number to be increased. I can see clearly that there is a will with you, and that there is force. Hopefully we can deal with the problem in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u7	Thank you for your very full answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u8	Dear colleague, I am aware of the difficulties of the police profession, especially in this period of health crisis, which is accompanied by many situations of stress that can strongly influence their feelings and well-being. It therefore seems important to remind them that different means are available to them in order to find the best solutions if an ill-being is to settle down. Federal police may use a Stress Team for integrated police personnel. It is made up of social workers and psychologists and is available 24 hours, seven days a week throughout the country. It acts in the context of crisis interventions, acts of violence against police officers or difficulties they may encounter in the performance of their duties. Some police areas also have their own psychosocial support services for their staff. Debriefings and interventions are good practices developed on the ground that provide support to police officers facing difficulties in their police practices. Trusted individuals in the area of well-being and prevention and in all mental health support activities and processes within police services can help to make policing manageable and achievable by maintaining a balance with privacy. Various projects have been put in place to work on the image of the function: 1. Communications via the social media of the federal police and police areas are regularly disseminated to show positive actions or the human side of the police. This type of communication is also disseminated internally; 2. In the context of branding, various communications are published through traditional or social media to show that the police are an attractive employer. Some colleagues are highlighted as "police" brand ambassadors. 3. The Interior FPS is developing a police compliance campaign that will be expanded to cover other security occupations. The objective of the campaign message is twofold: respect for and by the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u9	I would simply like to thank the Minister, who answered all my questions and, in particular, cited the various projects that could be proposed to reshape the image of the police function.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u10	- According to the head of the body, it seems that a working group is studying the idea of a new system for managing demonstrations. Which actors make up this GT? What's the status of his work? Can you give us the first conclusions?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u11	Dear colleague, I do share this view that it is essential to develop a new police approach to preparing for the management of these new modes of protest. This is also a priority of my policy statement. Recently, I was able to discuss the need to develop this new approach with the mayor of the City of Brussels and the chief of corps of the Brussels-Capital/Ixelles police zone. In this regard, I would like to inform you that a working group has been set up at the national level, bringing together local and federal police officers who have a role in overseeing major events. The National Police Academy is also associated. This group is co-led by the Brussels co-ordinators and the ad interim director of the interventions of the Brussels-Capital/Ixelles police zone. This working group is in its infancy and has highlighted the various areas on which it will be necessary to work in the coming weeks. In parallel, an identical project is being developed within the Brussels-Capital/Ixelles police zone. We work with the various actors in the police area in this area and identify several sub-projects that are currently being processed within the police area, with the ambition to develop a more appropriate approach to these new movements. The coherent and parallel development of these projects at both levels of the integrated police will be ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u12	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you share this vision. I also hear you confirming the establishment of this working group mentioned in my question. I am pleased with the cooperation you have indicated in your response and to be able to discuss with you the conclusions of the working groups, as well as the projects that are currently under consideration. I hope we can move forward together in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, in response to Mr Bert Moyaers' written parliamentary question no. 100 on the amounts of the communal allocations allocated to the local police, on 24 December 2020 I transmitted the tables showing the amounts of the communal allocations for 2019. These tables are available at the Registry of the House of Representatives. The data in these tables are from Belfius and have been supplemented for the Brussels police areas using data from the Brussels regional public service. It must be noted that there are indeed cost disparities between police areas. However, the amounts of these communal allocations are the result of a gradual evolution. As a minister, I cannot comment on what has been done in the past, but I am committed to preparing, from a future perspective, a new sustainable funding model based on new parameters. There is a need to develop an objective and transparent model based on reform and integration of existing police endowments and federal subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u14	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I am pleased to hear that I can consult these documents at the Registry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u15	Mrs Chanson, thank you for asking me this question whose important theme is dear to me. Emergency zones, which are the employers of our firefighters, are required to have one or more prevention counsellors in their ranks, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Welfare at Work. The latter and its implementing orders determine the number of preventive advisers and their level of training, depending, inter alia, on the number of staff. All emergency areas have or will have, in the near future, an adviser on psychosocial aspects, who is part of the internal or external service of the prevention and protection department to which they are affiliated. With regard to any complaints of sexism, no complaints have been filed at this time. There may be, but they are not known. Victims can file complaints within the company via the psychosocial prevention advisor and trusted persons. They can also do so with an external organization such as the police, the Institute for Gender Equality or an inspection service. Complaints are communicated to the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, for the internal service of prevention and protection at work. I therefore do not have sexist complaints figures. The provisions for workplace equipment - toilets, changing rooms, showers and other rooms reserved for women - can be found in the Codex. It is therefore the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate, which falls within the competence of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, to monitor the conformity of workplaces in this field. As employers, rescue zones must of course comply with the provisions of the Codex. In fact, most of them have specific accommodations for female staff. It is therefore their responsibility to take the necessary measures to remedy any shortcomings, whether in the form of changing rooms, sanitary facilities or other facilities to be reserved for women in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u16	Madam Minister, I thank you simply for all the information you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u17	I would have liked to have questioned you about a continuing plague of armed robbery in the center of Vilvoorde and in a submunicipality. It creates a lot of commotion. There's a meeting with the mayor and with the security services. Are you aware of that? Are you involved in any way, via the local services or the mayor, in order to keep an eye on the situation, so that the situation becomes normalized and safer as soon as possible? This is not common practice in that quiet sub-municipality. Of course something is happening in Vilvoorde, a Flemish-Brabant city; we have been there for many years. But now it's a new phenomenon. That is why I would have liked to draw your attention to this and ask you if you are aware of it and what you intend to do about it, also in consultation with the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u18	Mr Francken, first of all I would like to thank you for raising the issue. In the territory of the local police zone Vilvoorde-Machelen, three thefts were identified this year in the municipality of Peutie with the aggravating element "armed." A first fact occurred on 5 March and the two other facts date from 10 March this year. Those robberies were always carried out by a young man. He let himself hand over money from the cash register under threat of a fist gun. In all likelihood, it's the same perpetrator every time. Local detectives of the VIMA police zone immediately started an investigation. That investigation is still ongoing. Links are also made with possible facts in Zemst and Mechelen. Those links will also be further investigated. As far as the measures taken are concerned, I can inform you that the suspect's description has been passed on to all police officers on the premises. All teams are extra attentive and focus mainly on suspicious behaviour in the vicinity of smaller businesses, where the mentioned facts took place. In any case, the increased presence of patrols on the premises also has a deterrent effect. Hopefully this can contribute to a reduction in the sense of insecurity in the surrounding area, especially in the relevant sub-municipality. At least the field patrols are continuing and the investigation by local detectives is ongoing. I cannot tell you much more about this for the time being, but you can be sure that I will continue to follow the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u19	Madam Minister, I am somewhat reassured by your answers. Your statement that you, as Minister, are aware of the security problem in Peutie and Vilvoorde is an important signal. Vilvoorde is a very important city, where people have already experienced a lot. It is not over either, because I understand that the government intends to repatriate some of the women and children of Syrian warriors. I am certainly very satisfied and I will follow that up with our local people. The mayor of Peutie is concerned about his people and that you, as minister, share that concern, strengthens me in the belief that we will be able to catch the person in question, hopefully as soon as possible, so that the peace in our beautiful Vilvoorde can return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u20	As Mrs Reuter is not present, her question is No. 55015506C without object. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55015528C, 55015530C and 55015534C by Mr Dallemagne, who is prevented by another committee, are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u21	I have put a question on the recruitment budgets because it is the intention that we recruit 1,600 aspirants to the police every year. That's one of the eyecatchers from the coalition agreement and your policy letter, Madam Secretary. At the committee meeting of 24 February 2021, you said you were confident that, provided that a coherent cooperation of all partners, that objective could certainly be achieved. The Council of Ministers of 23 October 2020 decided to allocate federal police credits from the interdepartmental commission, including to achieve quality and accelerated recruitment. Those resources will be needed. In the past, only 800 aspirants were recruited each year. In the past, more candidates had to seek internal money by shifting appropriations. I have a few questions about that. Is the new recruitment period, as expected, able to start effectively on 1 March 2021? If only structural money had been released in the near past to recruit 800 aspirants, what size of amounts can we imagine? Can we assume that in order to carry out the other 800 recruitments, an equal sum is needed? Or does the cost fall in proportion to the number of aspirants? How will it be possible to increase the amount of recruitment in a structural way? Are internal shifts necessary or are additional funds injected for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u22	At present, the RB and the MB are still being submitted to the Council of State for an opinion. The new selection rules will also be submitted to the trade unions for approval this spring. We therefore hope to be able to introduce the new selection procedure this spring. In any case, this means that the timing for the recruitment of the 1,600 aspirants for 2021 will not be compromised. The candidates currently in the selection chain are recruited through the old recruitment concept and will be able to start training in the second trimester of this year. At present, all previsions point to a surplus of candidates on both Dutch and French-speaking sides. The prospects have been made on the basis of a statistical analysis of the chances of success in recent years. These estimates are generally accurate. So we can assume, even if we always have to speak with two words, that we are on track for the recruitment of those 1,600 aspirants in the basic framework according to the intended language role distribution, also for the year 2021. The total cost of these recruitments of 800 aspirants is estimated at 34 million euros. For one candidate, the amount is estimated at EUR 42,000, covering both remuneration and initial equipment and training. The recruitment of the 800 additional aspirants will also require a budget of EUR 34 million. This cost can be partly absorbed within the available appropriations in 2021, but the additional EUR 50 million loan made available to strengthen the federal police force is also used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think I understand between the lines that the new procedure planned to start on 1 March is probably not entirely successful. After all, it still has to be submitted to the Council of State. But I hear you're sure you're gonna be okay. For the rest, I thank you for your answer, which gave a lot of clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u24	Mr President, Minister, this question is in line with my previous question. Following a question from me in the committee of 24 February 2021, you replied to me that at least 190 million euros were saved in the federal police during the period 2004-2021. Then you also spoke of measures such as non-indexation or administrative blocking and other measures with an impact on structural standards. Since 2004, there has also been a difference in treatment between federal and local police. The federal donations to the local police were not exposed to savings, creating a distortion and putting pressure on the police's integrated operation. This is being considered, among other things, with the review of the funding of the local police. However, there was also good news. In the present reign the cow is really taken by the horns. In the years 2021 to 2024 cumulative EUR 690 million is injected into the federal police budget. Madam Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what can I really mean by the measures taken with an impact on the structural standard? Secondly, is it true that, even after the financial and economic crisis, a staff freeze was introduced? Do you think that stop has caused a huge gap in the knowledge and experience of the federal police? How do you intend to remedy that? Thirdly, what will the additional appropriations be allocated for? Are they strategically involved in the new vision plans that are being developed or are the funds intended, among other things, to recruit additional staff? You have already answered part of the previous question. Fourthly, does the distortion and pressure on the integrated operation mean work to be done on the revision of the financing of the local police force, but also on the table for the States-General? What is the state of affairs with regard to the States-General? Finally, during the hearing on the police funding law, we heard Commissioner-General De Mesmaeker ask to be able to convert earmarked appropriations into the budget in order to use them usefully before the end of the year. Can you provide the right levers for this in the framework of budgetary control 2021? What approach does this require in the legislative area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u25	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, as you know, we are now providing for a structural increase of EUR 100 million for the police by 2024. In addition, savings were also imposed on other public services of, in this case, EUR 10.2 million. According to my information, there has never been a staff stop, but denominations have been applied. These have led to a reduction in staffing capacity and are now being mediated through the current additional appropriations. These additional appropriations are intended both for the implementation of the objectives of the policy statement, including, as I said earlier, the recruitment of 1,600 inspectors, as well as to cover the structural funding deficit of the federal police through reinvestment. The state-general of the police is currently being prepared, together with the key partners. According to current planning and to the extent that the measures allow us, the starting point for this is foreseen in May. The exact modalities of this will depend, as I said, on the sanitary situation. In any case, the aim is to involve as many actors as possible. I would like to appeal to Parliament for the involvement and representation of the citizens. Perhaps the committee could designate one or more representatives in the form of a report. There is currently no agreement on the conversion of appropriations into the budget. This can be made possible, for example, by adding a specific rider to the 2021 budget control, which would allow exchangeability of staff appropriations on the one hand and investment and operational appropriations on the other. I am also counting on the support of my colleague, the Minister of Justice, who is also a minister of custody, with regard to a number of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In 2021, you will give an injection of 50 million euros that will largely go to the recruitment of new aspirants. I think there is still a lot of investment to be made for all the things on the table. In the hearing itself, the Commissioner-General said that much would go to recruiting aspirants, but that much of the EUR 50 million would also be needed for digitisation, for modernising the fleet, for innovation with bodycams and for securing police officers with better weapons. This will require a great deal of funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Maegd's 55015565C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u28	Mr President, Minister, in principle, the performance of a police zone should not be subject to additional costs or taxes. An exception to this is provided for in Article 90 of the Integrated Police Act. That article provides that a city council or a police council may adopt regulations to collect a fee for the tasks of the administrative police. The fee can only be claimed for police performance relating to the specific and direct interest of a private individual. A KB would record exactly what performance it is about, but that KB is still not there after 22 years. Pending the Royal Decree, the provisions of Article 223a of the new Municipal Law were re-established for certain municipalities, allowing them to pass on individual police duties to persons and legal persons for tasks of administrative police determined by the municipal council. This was, among other things, important for the combitaks, for transporting persons with a police vehicle, in their municipal tax. The police have to regularly transport people who have caused some kind of nuisance, often because they are drunk or under the influence of drugs. This is not subject to any fine for the persons concerned. Such transport increases the workload of police personnel, thereby jeopardising other security tasks. That tax also proved to be effective, because it has a dissuasive effect. However, some clarity in the legislation is appropriate after 22 years. Are you aware of the gap in legislation regarding the missing implementing act of Article 90 of the Integrated Police Act? A Royal Decree on Article 90 of that Act would provide clarity and legal certainty. Do you intend to take steps to ensure that KB would still be there? Within what time? In what way do you believe that municipalities can legally charge the combitaks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u29	Mr President, Mr Demon, Article 90 of the law on integrated police has indeed been implemented. The Royal Decree of 14 September 1997 laying down the detailed rules concerning the tasks of administrative police carried out by the municipal police is still applicable. Originally, KB found its basis in article 223a of the new municipal law, but that article has been re-established in article 90 of the law on integrated police. However, I do not want to rule out the fact that the 1997 Royal Decree will be updated. A combitak may be introduced as a tax or a fee, but it is the competence of the Regions to do so. In application of Article 90 of the Integrated Police Act and the 1997 Implementing Decision, local authorities cannot introduce such combitaks. A combitak does not fall within the scope of Article 1 of the Royal Decree. In most cases, the police decide to transport themselves and the task is not carried out at the request of a private person. Moreover, it cannot be said that the use of a combination to transport a drunk person or cause of nuisance is a special use of equipment or personnel. This is more about carrying out the statutory police missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u30	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, there may be an adjustment, but it is a regional competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u31	Madam Secretary, according to an article in the Gazette of Antwerp, the federal judicial police are mainly looking for IT people with a specialization in cybercrime. Although there are enough bachelors in IT, they do not always appear to be interested in a job with the police. There are therefore few IT professionals effectively applying to the police. The compulsory police training may play a role in this. Madam Secretary, what do you think is the reason for the shortage of specialist IT staff? What do you intend to do about it? Could you perhaps set up a civil framework for which physical tests are not required, as is the case with the military, for example? Do you also believe that remuneration plays a role, as IT professionals in the private sector are paid a lot better? The most important question remains whether police training, mandatory for all who want to work in the police, can be released. Police training includes such things as traffic control. Not everyone can find that and for that reason some leave a job with the police, which is a pity, as qualified IT people may not be able to be hired in this way, while the need for IT people is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u32	Mr Freilich, in the current labour market, the specialised IT profiles are indeed very desirable, not just by the federal police. The education world innovates by designing specific training courses to train young people in the footsteps of technological evolution, or revolution, I might say. The police will work on different slopes to recruit the profiles. Firstly, colleges and universities and also the influx of experts from other sectors. In addition, internal training of new or existing staff is provided. There is no such thing as an education or a professional criminal intelligence. In addition to the problem of the available profiles on the labour market, the salary conditions that the federal police have been able to offer so far are often not in line with the conditions of the private sector. In this sense, the desired profiles are therefore difficult to find and difficult to attract. That is precisely why the federal judicial police want to have a specific operating budget in place in order to recruit IT and intelligence consultants in the future. 450 vacancies were opened for this purpose. In addition, it is not always a question of money, but also of making the career of the judicial pillar as attractive as possible. This can be achieved through a favourable salary status with functional remuneration, but also through promotional opportunities within a specialised career for certain profiles. All the initiatives we are taking, both quantitatively and qualitatively, will have to be framed by a targeted and specific employee branding campaign to put the federal police, and in this context certainly the federal judicial police, into the market as an interesting and attractive employer. The specialised IT profiles within the general management of judicial police, and also elsewhere, have long been part of the civilian staff of the federal police. That's the CALog staff that employs a significant part of the federal police staff. In order to be recruited as a CALog member of staff, physical tests are not carried out and police initial training is not required. These staff also have no special police powers. They are used for specific support functions, however specialised and important they may be. Functions that do not require specific police skills will, and will be, preferably filled in by the staff of the administrative and logistics framework in the future. That is perhaps an unfortunate name to be able to name the variation of profiles and expertise that is covered by it. Specifically for the judicial pillar, examples can be found of civilian personnel in the judicial labs and the Computer Crime Unit, among analysts, etc. As with the citizen profiles, there are also specialist profiles with specific expertise, such as the fight against fraud, among the chief inspectors. Those chief inspectors, who can enter directly into the middle framework, do receive police training, unlike the previous experts, so that they can also be given full police authority as officers of judicial police. You asked me what I could do about it. We continue to support and motivate the two-track policy of the CALog staff, where possible, and operational staff, where necessary. In addition, creative ways are being developed to attract ad hoc specialists through temporary contracts. The problem of wages can be solved through temporary assignments of expertise, if one only needs that expertise for a short time or if one can later consolidate that expertise internally. I hope I have shown you that a coherent and targeted policy is also applied to the specialised IT profiles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u33	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u34	I can confirm that a summary procedure was initiated with the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance on 25 November 2020. The requesting parties have requested that the FAQ, in the explanation to the MB, clearly include that animal hairdressing salons, including dog hairdressing salons and trimmers, should be allowed to open, provided that certain conditions are met. As a result of the epidemiological situation at that time, the regulation in the MB was amended at a certain time, through the MB of 28 November 2020, following the submission of that application in summary proceedings. The President then decided, by a decision of 10 March, that the question of those dog hair salons had become without object. I can tell you that the dog hair salons are still open today. In the decision of 10 March, the President did not under any circumstances say that the closure of the dog hair salons with the previous MB was incorrect or should not have taken place, taking into account the situation at the time. It has therefore not been said anywhere that an incorrect measure had been taken. Consequently, in addition to the general aid measures for sectors which were obliged to close their doors, there is no question of additional compensation. That's not my jurisdiction either. In the order of 10 March, the President gave his opinion only on costs, including justice, as is always the case in such situations. When my services receive a request for payment, the necessary steps will be taken soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u35	Madam Secretary, I think you're going to pass it pretty lightly. It is a bit laughing about it, but it is an important sector in the field of animal welfare. You're saying that you've made a quick adjustment, that it was meant to be recorded, but it didn't happen. For us the closure of the dog salons is an important problem, which happened without it being based on facts. We regret that this has not been changed more quickly, that no lessons have been learned from it and that it is not being considered with the sector whether compensation is possible. That's our opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u36	Mr President, Mr Raskin, you are right that bicycle thefts are an undeniable phenomenon. I believe that we should first of all work on a policy of prevention around bicycle thefts. In the prevention policy, we can focus on raising citizens' awareness of the use of a good bicycle lock, securing it correctly, putting the bike in a safe place, registering it or identifying it, and so on. My services support local authorities and also provide tips and advice on safe bicycle sheds, sensitisation of citizens against bicycle theft, bicycle identification, registration systems and also the declaration and follow-up of victims. Community guards often play an important role in this respect. The project on decoy bikes is not included in the current prevention strategy. Therefore, my services do not have statistics on the number of police areas using this technique or an evaluation or statistics on the effectiveness of that method of detection. At police level, in particular local police, the method may be one of the approaches to combating this crime phenomenon. Some police zones apparently use them, others do not. At the moment, I cannot give you an overall picture of the practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Cycling thefts are a scourge and I think it is necessary to pursue policies in this area, especially if we want to position the bicycle as an attractive means of transport between other means of transport. Many people use an expensive electric bicycle nowadays. A policy seems to me to be necessary, because only the commitment to prevention will not suffice. I also took the opportunity to question your colleagues Gilkinet and Van Quickenborne on this matter. I have the impression that you have a little less attention to it. Nevertheless, I think it is important to revisit this time of year. From my position, I will at some point do what I think is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (COM). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55015528C, 55015530C, 55015534C and 55015826C of Mr Dallemagne are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u39	Madam Secretary, as promised, I will return with a follow-up question. As you know, the number of reports of intra-family violence among aid organisations has increased enormously, especially during the lockdown periods. It was bad and it will remain bad, but it's gotten a lot worse. That was predictable. I do not personally blame you, but since the beginning of the first lockdown a year ago, I have asked virtually all your predecessors time and again what they would do about it and whether they would ensure that children, young people, women and men who are dealing with intra-family violence and now sitting at home find a way to report what is happening to them so that intervention can be taken. This has been delayed for a very long time and, in the end, a COL has been established with regard to re-contact with intra-family violence. It was very important that this certainly happened during that lockdown period, but that COL has only just entered into force. What we are seeing now, above all, is that the police figures clearly prove what I have been saying all along. During the lockdown, there was a decrease in the number of minutes, as opposed to the increase in the number of notifications to the aid organisations. That's very remarkable, because just before the lockdown those numbers went up and then they stopped. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. How do you explain the discrepancy between the figures in police statistics relating to intra-family violence and the much higher figures of notifications and calls from the aid organisations? We see very clearly that reporting is a huge threshold for victims. It always has been, but it certainly is at this time. What will you do to lower that threshold? Your predecessor, Minister De Crem, spoke about the roll-out of a new application of the current Infosuite module, which would allow for a national view of the facts of intra-family violence recorded in the various ISLP servers of the local zones and thus on the number of records prepared before entering the ANG. After all, there is a huge delay. This system had to be operational by May 2020. Can you give us an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u40	Mr President, my question is also a follow-up to some of the tragedies we have experienced in recent days and weeks. I come directly to my questions. Madam Minister, what I am interested in is what the police could do more in the context of arrests following domestic and conjugal violence. I would also like to know what is happening today with the training of our police officers on this issue. In addition, I wonder whether the protocols that are applicable in police stations should not be revised so as to better understand these difficult cases, but also to better accommodate victims in our police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, the number of femicides registered since the beginning of the year is eight. Your colleague, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, pointed out that an increase in the number of femicides observed in 2021, compared with the previous year, was taking place. She added that a meeting with the Ministers of the Interior and Justice was scheduled for Tuesday, 23 March. At that meeting, the topic of the plan to combat domestic violence was to be discussed. Moreover, it is up to us, after observation of surveys carried out by several associations, that the data on acts of violence against women or gender violence recorded in Belgium do not provide an overview of this phenomenon in our country, which is essential to the establishment of an effective policy to combat this phenomenon. Minister, can we be informed about the treatment of the issue of violence and the plan put in place to combat domestic violence in the covid-19 period? The plan provided for a public awareness campaign. Within what time frame could it be initiated? Can we have your feedback on the problem of assessing gender violence in Belgium? The data provided by the police fall within the scope of complaints, the nomenclature of which does not take into account all forms of violence suffered by women. Have any contacts been made with your competent colleagues with a view to making progress in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u42	Madam Minister, a number of questions in the Committee on the Interior of 17 March remained unanswered. You then answered questions from Mr Van Peel about police statistics, which do not seem to be consistent with the increase in intra-family violence and the number of calls to the number 1712 in the previous lockdown. Those things need to be followed up and will rise with the new lockdown. In your opinion, the re-contacting or follow-up of people in such a situation would be reviewed. What went wrong over there? In the committee you also stated that the Permanent Committee of the Local Police had written to the consultation platform Justipol in order to evaluate the various circular letters. What are the concrete findings there? You also stated that a practical and pragmatic tool was being developed in relation to the risk assessment for first-rate employees, victim recipients, trusted persons, social assistants, reference persons partner violence and detectives. What's the status there? More importantly, for me, this is a klutz. Who's doing what? Are people being sent from the locker to the wall? Does everyone know who's supposed to do the job? Who is to approach these victims in the right way and follow them? Do these victims know that, too? What's that all about over there? How many employees are we talking about here? There was no clarity in your answer either. Thank you for clarifying that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Van Peel, according to the classification of intra-family violence in the COL 3/2006, four forms of violence can be distinguished, in particular physical, sexual, psychological and economic violence, as well as three types of relationship, in particular within the couple itself, against descendants or against other members of the family. With regard to the available figures, 21,920 facts of intra-family violence were recorded in the first semester of 2020. This is a decrease of 1,898 facts or a decrease of 8% compared to the same period in 2019, when 23,818 registrations were made. If we look at the figures month by month, it can be seen that the figures in January and February are quite similar to those in previous years. In the months of March and April we see that the number of registrations has decreased compared to the similar months of the year before. In May and June, the number of declarations appears to stabilise again to the level of recent years. In addition to the parametric demarcation of intra-family violence, there is a specific fact code for a family disagreement within the police nomenclature. This can also be an indicator of familial violence. This fact code is included among the non-crimes. These are facts which, in themselves, are not punishable, but for which a report has been drawn up. The number of recorded facts relating to family disputes has increased year after year. The figures for the first semester of 2020, with 6,637 facts, are also higher than the same period in 2019 with 5,996 facts. In the first three months of 2020, the number of registrations remains fairly stable, with just over 1,000 facts per month. In the next three months, the number of findings of family disputes also increases slightly every month. To sum up, we can see that there is no increase in the number of recorded facts on intra-family violence in the first semester of 2020. In particular, there is a decrease in the number of registrations in the months of March and April. This is not consistent, as you pointed out, with the perception of the increase in the number of reports of intra-family violence during the lockdown, as identified by other aid sectors as well. Since April 2020, the facts that can be reported at a distance have been expanded through the digital window. In the context of the corona crisis, the police increased accessibility in this way. She also ensured that non-essential or annoying movements to police offices could be avoided by the remote registration declaration. It is a temporary extension with new facts of the declaration by means of a new form Call for Aid in general. These include beatings and injuries, threats, ringing, theft without violence, scams, including via the Internet and loss of objects or documents. The new form also provides a free text field so that the citizen can state exactly what fact he or she would like to indicate. With this form, citizens could report heavier facts such as intra-family violence. This declaration will then be forwarded to the local police of the area concerned, where they will be responsible for the further handling of the fact. At the beginning of March 2021, hate crimes were also explicitly added to the Emergency Call form in general. For all cases where immediate intervention is required, the citizens will, of course, call 101 or 112. It should be noted that in cases of intra-family violence, the step to the police is often the ultimate step that is not taken in many cases. In the case of intra-family violence, we find that there is at least a lower willingness to report due to shame, the perceived attitude of the police, but also feelings of loyalty towards the offender. On the other hand, the number of facts of intrafamilial disagreement increases. Whether this increase is due to the measures under the COVID-19 pandemic cannot necessarily be derived from the facts available. The figures must therefore be interpreted with caution. Mrs. Song, the facts before us are the subject of judicial investigation. The investigation by the Federal Judicial Police is still under way. For the moment, it is legally impossible to have access to it and to communicate about the elements of the file that are covered by the secrecy of the investigation. I therefore do not have any information at this stage which would demonstrate shortcomings in the police management of this situation, but we must wait for the investigation to proceed. The reception of victims and intervention in the field of domestic violence have been integrated into the basic training programme for all our aspirants inspectors. Through cluster 8 of this training on the reception of victims, future police officers are required to distinguish between the different types of victims and their specific needs. Particular attention is paid to victims of domestic violence through cluster 9 on police interventions. Aspirants learn and apply the legal and regulatory procedures provided for in specific police interventions, including those relating to domestic violence. The reception of victims of domestic violence is the subject of specific attention through certain trainings aimed at helping our police officers to better anticipate and understand situations on the ground. These are mainly organized by approved provincial schools with primary responsibility for meeting the training needs of local police areas. Other training courses, although not specifically or exclusively concerned with this issue, have been strengthened and adapted to make it more relevant. The training on the reception of victims is intended to be more general mas certainly equips our police officers with better skills and abilities when they are confronted with victims of domestic and/or domestic violence. The various training courses offered by police schools on sexual violence and the reception of victims of sexual violence, although not specific to the family sphere, also provide police officers with relevant skills in this regard. I would like to point out that the current federal training plan has taken up the theme of violence against women as a priority theme. Mrs Bury, the Permanent Committee of Local Police has indeed sent a letter to the College of Attorneys General concerning the COL 15 of 2020 and the COL 20 of 2020. The subject is not yet discussed on the Justipol consultation platform. The College of Attorneys General has asked to implement the first-line risk assessment tool on partner violence, the use of which is generalised for police forces and prosecutors, in the COL 15/2020 in the Integrated System for the Local Police. The roll-out is foreseen in three phases. The first phase has already been rolled out. If a phenomenon of intra-family violence within the couple is included in the CV, a warning message appears on the basis of a pop-up stating that a specific checklist must be filled in. The employee is then referred to an intranet page on which the aforementioned checklist can be found. That checklist must then be delivered to the parquet together with the pv. In phases 2 and 3 of this plan, this is further automated so that the checklist can also be filled in directly into the system. Phase 2 of this project will be included in the new deployment of this system. It is set for June of this year. For the training courses, info moments were organized by the reference magistraat intrafamilial violence in favour of the reference persons intrafamilial violence of the police zones. They then forwarded the information to the first-line services that will use the first-line evaluation tool. Mr Senesael, in the current context of the pandemic, the GPI operational directive on the functionality of police assistance to victims remains applicable to all GPI staff. In accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Royal Decree of 17 September 2001 laying down the standards for the organization and operation of the local police in order to provide a minimum service equivalent to the population and by Ministerial Circular PLP 10, each police zone ensures this functionality for which the existing cooperation agreements remain fully applicable. The dirco and front-line services of the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police also ensure this functionality within their district and priority area of action. The police services have the task of welcoming and assisting citizens. Of course, in the current pandemic context, this remains the rule for every police officer. Particular attention is paid to vulnerable groups, including child victims of domestic violence and minors in worrying situations. Since June 2020, the guidelines of the College of Attorneys General to generalise the use of a tool for assessing the front-line risk of violence in the couple by the police services, the first aim of the prosecution services is to highlight the presence of certain alarming risk factors, that the prosecution service is informed immediately but also that the magistrate acts quickly and adequately to ensure the safety of the victim and his or her entourage and to offer the possibility for the magistrate in charge to become aware of the situation and then to analyse it thoroughly by reading the file based on a predefined checklist. This assessment tool requires specific attention for situations where children are involved. Chain work should be emphasized in the approach to situations of domestic violence where collaboration with justice agencies is the guideline. With regard to information on victims, it is not yet possible, on the basis of the information available in the general national database, to provide reliable data on victims. In the medium term, federal police services will ensure that victim data is provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u45	Mr President, it seems to me that under this item on the agenda there are questions that have not really been put together. Madam Secretary, I am not reassured by your comprehensive answer. The fact that digital reports can be made by April seems to me to be so far from the reality of intra-family violence that it is almost funny. The possibility of a digital notification is not the way to deal with such families in these times. From the beginning, I asked to set up the re-contact. The police, and especially the district police, know perfectly what families of family violence is taking place. Preventive visits must be made. In some families, dramas have occurred that have remained below the waterline. I see that in the figures and I don't know how else to read them. You say I should be careful with it, but it's clear to me. Apparently, we're not learning from it. We are now a year ahead and we are still subject to federal decisions in the area of lockdowns, which also makes it more difficult for other reasons. I really think there should be more action. Intrafamilial violence doesn't go away. It is also true that intra-family violence is not linked to corona, but it has worsened during this period. The Social Emancipation Advisory Committee has prepared a resolution on intra-family violence, on which we have worked very hard. I hope that the government will take it to heart. If the issues of this unanimously adopted resolution are transposed, then something will finally change on the ground. Madam Secretary, with what happened last year, I am not very satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for the information you have brought me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u47	Minister, I would like to thank you, too, for the information that we are going to analyze. If necessary, we will come back for updating.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. For me, it's still just as big a claw, I still can't get out of it. I am also convinced that the victims can get even less out of it. Do they get that help? The e-mailing? Unlike Mrs Van Peel, I do think that filing online can be an additional solution. She could be useful to people who can't get out. Whether it's the best tool is another question. However, I do not think it is bad that it is possible by this route. I wonder who knows about that. We know it here, but who else knows it's gonna work that way? Is there a campaign in which that is announced? I think that's important. As far as re-contacting is concerned, Minister Van Quickenborne said that this option was feasible either by visiting or by telephone. With a phone call to make sure that both parties are okay, one will not get a look at the case. We need to find those families at home so we can talk to them. In this way we will be able to better identify what is really going on. Maybe things aren't said that can be read from someone's mimicry. It is therefore very important that this possibility be considered and intensified. I would really like to know what all this shuffling of people is doing, who is assisting them or how many staff are involved. In that respect, I'm really hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u49	Mrs. Song, there was no fight. It was a robbery against a young couple. He was also beaten by many young people. On the basis of the statements of the victims and some witnesses, the police officers who arrived at the scene intercepted and arrested some 15 suspects who were still nearby. All the suspects were then taken to the police station for the continuation of the judicial arrest procedure, such as the judicial search or the search before the detention, which is in accordance with Salduz legislation because it is carried out in the presence of a lawyer. All these arrests were confirmed by the prosecutor. Finally, following the decision of the prosecutor's office, all suspects were released on Saturday in the afternoon. In the wake of the events and in the light of the events that took place, the head of the corps decided to have the Kindreflex aspect examined, an automatism aimed at integrating the interests of the child, which is provided for in the internal investigation of the Gantoese police. This reflex involved, among other things, informing parents quickly and effectively and assessing in particular whether a search was necessary or not. On 21 March, the mayor received an e-mail from the parents of the minors concerned, which the Ghent police considered to be a formal complaint. Some parents also informed the press that they would refer the matter to Committee P. As for the prosecutor's office, he indicated through a press release that, on the basis of the information currently available to him, he was not aware of any mistakes in the police intervention. As a minister, I agree with the mayor's point of view. First of all, I condemn all forms of violence, so also the acts committed against the couple concerned. I hope that he will receive the necessary support to overcome this trauma. In addition, it is up to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the P Committee to shed light on this event and to determine the responsibilities. So I will not look at the substance of the case at this time. Finally, I would like to point out that social networks are not the right place for a peaceful debate, certainly when individuals who express themselves are not aware of the fullness of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for all this additional information. Like you, I agree with the position of the mayor of the city of Ghent. I am indeed saddened by the many debates which unfortunately can take place on social networks. I think it is also our political role to be able to remedy this. I am sure that we will be able to discuss it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u51	- Shouldn't EcoFin's missions be refocused on big crime and leave its other tasks to local police?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u52	Mr President, Madam, several internal vacancies have been opened in recent months, including some 20 specifically in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime. In addition, a recruitment campaign is under way for various specialist profiles within the Federal Judicial Police, including Ecofin experts. More specifically, they are tax experts and specialists in the detection and investigation of cases of fraud, in tax regulations relating to direct and indirect taxes and in similar tasks. As these recruitment procedures are still under way, it is not yet possible for me to go into the details of the figures. At the level of the Federal Judicial Police, I can confirm that a comprehensive plan to strengthen the fight against financial crime is indeed under consideration. This plan will include qualitative and quantitative recruitment, basic courses in Ecofin and specialized training, digital tools in support of investigations, research management, internal and external partnerships with the integrated police, recovery of criminal assets and enforcement criminal investigations. The Director-General of the Judicial Police has appointed a special adviser for these tasks since January this year. With regard to Ecofin's missions on serious crime, a circular from the public prosecutors regulates the division of labour, collaboration, coordination and integration between the local police and the federal police in relation to criminal police missions. Economic and financial crime is therefore one of them. However, this circular does not prevent agreements between the Federal Judicial Police and local police areas within the boroughs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u53	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, thank you for all these elements of the answer to the various questions that I have addressed to you. However, in order to have more precise figures, I will certainly ask you a written question in the coming weeks, so that we can have more precise figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u54	Madam Secretary, a sad balance appeared in the media last week. In 2020, there were almost 13,000 cases of aggression against police forces. Converted, there are over 35 a day. It's numbers to get dizzy. According to the police unions, it's a social problem that's been going on for years. Besides, it's not just about aggression against the police. Emergency services are also becoming increasingly victims of violence. The police unions say that the victims are too often left in the cold. They often have to deal with red tape themselves, and some governments make it difficult for them to grant legal aid. A second legitimate concern of the police unions are the many false complaints and the police bases. Those roads are based on the motivation of many of our police forces. Madam Secretary, can you confirm those figures? Are there significant differences between police zones? Do you agree to the analysis of the police unions? If so, what measures can you take in the short and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u55	Mr Depoostere, the figures to which you refer are the registrations on violence against the police coming from the registration system 'Reporting incidents'. Before 2020, 13,083 acts of violence against the police were registered in that system on the date of 26 March. Most of the facts of violence against the police in 2020 are recorded in the police areas of the cities, such as Antwerp, Brussels Capital-Elsene, Brussels Zone Zuid, Liège and Ghent. However, indicating that the victims remain in the cold is a bridge too far and I cannot share that view. Various measures have already been taken to support staff who are victims of violence. First, the GPI 62 provides for a specific reporting of security incidents related to the use of a weapon and facts of violence by or against police officers. A directive was circulated to the federal police on the procedure to be followed for an urgent notification of acts of violence against staff, including a form for a damages report. As a result, the government may make itself known to the competent prosecutor of the King as an injured party and at any time also present itself as a civil party at the appropriate time. As I have said several times in Parliament, we are systematically bourgeois in the event of violence against federal police officers and I have invited the mayors to do the same. After all, it is completely unacceptable for police officers to be attacked. The GPI 62 reports also aim to adapt the training programmes and trainings pro- and reactively on the basis of an analysis. If the violence is recognised as an accident at work, the real health costs will also be covered. A website available to each member of the integrated police force shall contain all information necessary when a police officer is the victim of violence. Victims, colleagues and managers can find documentation, forms and a description of the procedures in force and the steps to be taken. It is also true that the site has been redesigned and that it will be adapted to new developments if necessary. Moreover, the stress team of the federal police provides psychosocial and psychotherapeutic assistance to the staff of the integrated police. Finally, within the area of jurisdiction of Justice, the circular COL 10/2017 was adapted by the College of Attorneys General at the level of the judicial handling of cases of violence against police officers and more stringent penalties and more stringent prosecution policies were put forward. As I have stated on several occasions in this committee, and as I have also stated in my policy statement, I am aiming for a zero tolerance of violence against police officers and other aid workers. Given the importance of this issue and my commitment, I will continue to monitor this issue. After all, there is a need for an integrated approach to violence against the police. A circular on the use of violence against members of the integrated police is currently being finalised. I will also prepare a national communication plan on this issue. There is also a campaign in the administration about respect for all safety professions. I am also convinced that the use of bodycams will play an important role in reducing violence in front of the police. This is an overview of what we've already done today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We agree that this is unacceptable: 13,083 facts of violence against the police, and that figure is rising. That must be reversed in the very short term. Everything's connected to everything. I also hear the stories of police officers showing that the administrative burden of reporting violence is still an obstacle. I would urge that this be made more flexible. Cops sometimes tell me there's a scare to report it. Sometimes they can also be sued for certain facts. In addition, we are increasingly in a situation where policemen are no longer the victims, but are repeatedly referred to as perpetrators. We must take this social role to heart, to which the police unions also refer. We must act more strictly, in the short term, with a strict policy of prosecution, as I hear you say. I hope that will produce results in the very short term. Of course, I fully support you in introducing the bodycams. They must ensure that our policemen are better protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u57	When a police department is informed of a potential risk of identity fraud, a basic investigation is carried out and the pv is delivered to the public prosecutor as soon as possible. According to the circular MFO3, the standard for the complete completion of the report is up to three weeks, without prejudice, of course, to the guidelines of the judicial authorities. Certain criteria should be able to speed up data entry, such as the seriousness of the facts and the urgency of the notification. There is also a European circular against the fraudulent use of identity cards or travel documents specifying the procedure to be followed in consultation with the central office for combating counterfeiting of the federal police. In 2017, 8,823 figures on identity fraud were recorded within police crime statistics. In 2018 they were 9,909 registrations and in 2019 9,511 registrations. In the first semester of 2020, 3,867 identity fraud cases were registered. The question of what action should be taken on these CVs should be addressed to the Minister of Justice. Given the transversal and international nature of the phenomenon of identity and document fraud, police services exchange information and cooperate in international police cooperation. In the case of operational dossiers, such exchanges shall take place through traditional channels of communication. For the more strategic dossiers, coordination takes place within working groups. Nothing has changed with regard to the notification of possible identity fraud. The helpdesk fraud of the General Directorate of Institutions and Population is the unique first-line contact point for municipal reference officials and the information channel for the various departments involved in the fight against identity fraud. Thanks to the establishment of the national SPOC for identity fraud, all potential cases of fraud in Belgian municipalities and consular posts have been collected since June 2016. The national SPOC is therefore a strategic instrument. The federal task force can thus form a more concrete picture of the suspected cases of identity fraud in the municipalities. I fear that there may have been confusion as to the purpose of the hotline. The hotline is a collaboration of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, the Federal Agency for the Medicines and Health Products, the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, the Federal Police, the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy and is also a technical administrator of the system. As already stated, the Home Office was not involved in the hotline when it was established in 2015. My colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, responsible for Economics, can take an initiative if he so wishes, in consultation and cooperation with the federal task force, to provide additional information on identity fraud in the hotline. I'll contact him for that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u58	Madam President, I hear you say that it takes up to three weeks, but I believe that identity fraud, which is also often a form of cybercrime, is a matter of urgency, which should allow accelerated treatment. In cybercrime, there should be a short time to play on the ball. The question of what consequences are being given to the relevant minutes must be put to the Justice Department. In view of the figures you give on the minutes drawn up, I think the workload of the public prosecutors is increasing. The problem really needs to be addressed. As far as the hotline is concerned, I would urge municipal officials to be able to continue with questions about identity fraud. As I understand it, they are currently mainly referred to the local police, but the local police are not today a partner of the hotline, just the federal police. There is a central hotline in the Netherlands. Our hotline can also act as a central hotline, but then the local police should at least become a partner. I understand that I will have to ask further questions on this matter to your colleague, Mr Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u59	Mr Segers, the integrity coordinator was appointed in September 2017 and is part of the Integrity department of the staff of the Federal Police Commissioner General. He was commissioned to coordinate axis 4 of the Power Plan at the request of the then Commissioner-General. The Integrity Policy project was never officially launched, and the general steering committee of the Stroomplan had unanimously decided that it was not intended to develop a completely separate integrity code that would apply to all public services, especially since each public service has its own deontological code and integrity policy. It was concluded that this should mainly be considered as a permanent focus rather than as a separate objective. Since the people who were eventually housed on the Kali workshop floor were almost all members of either the federal police or the local Antwerp police, the general deontological code of the integrated police was applied. Additional group discussions were organised to raise awareness of the dangers of corruption among all the policemen involved, including the executives, and to provide an additional account of the protection of personal data on social media. No team charter was drawn up and therefore no team charter will be drawn up. The various services work together professionally as external partners. The analysis took place in July 2018, setting out a number of recommendations and concerns. The working group communicated it to the management and steering group concerned. Following the findings, a meeting with the P Committee and the AIG was also organised to address the risks that the staff of the Kali Group may face in their duties as a result of the criminal environment. In the meantime, we are no longer talking about a Kali team but about the Kali project, where ad hoc teams are set up to meet the needs. The team DIFA, Direct and Indirect Financial Approach, is an example of this. This team is housed in the buildings of Digipolis and is composed of employees of the local police Antwerp, of the federal police Antwerp and of the city of Antwerp. The cooperation between all these partners is going very well. The three main axes of cooperation concern the strategic approach, the collection and exchange of information and research.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u60	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clarity, there was a lot of confusion in me, all the more so because I read that the Ghent University evaluation said that the integrity policy had been put on hold in March 2019, but you say that this was not the case. There must have been a time when the development of that policy was a bit flat, otherwise I cannot reconcile it all well. In any case, I sincerely hope that the integrity policy, which has been announced for some time now in the framework of the Power Plan, can now at least get a real start. I'm going to have to reread a few things. I didn't quite understand why it wouldn't be appropriate to have a Kali team charter. I'm gonna take a closer look at that. Of course, the aftermath of Operation Sky shows that such an integrity policy is very necessary within the framework of the Power Plan. I wish you every success, of course, and I will certainly come back to you on this subject, in committee and perhaps later by means of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u61	Dear colleague Song, Uzi weapons in possession of the federal police date back to the 1980s and are still of very good quality today. These are strictly and regularly monitored and maintained by federal police armors. The Uzi machine gun is the most widely used collective weapon in the ranks of the federal police. Deliveries of 7.6235 mm calibre weapons - commonly referred to as 300 BLK - began in the third quarter of 2020. They are in stock at the Brussels Central Armoury and will be delivered to the operational units as soon as they have been trained. Unfortunately, the health context is delaying the initial planned schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u62	I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u63	Mr President, Minister, figures requested by Mr Roggeman show an exponential increase in crime rates in the Brussels train and metro stations in recent years. With a small 8,000 recorded facts or more than 21 per day, we can unfortunately count 2019 to a record year. These figures are often related to thefts, extortion, fraud and violations of foreign law. It is remarkable that the majority of crime takes place in the three Brussels train stations on the North-South axis. So there is a clear safety problem in these three major stations, which together constitute the top three of the busiest train stations in our country. Organised and specialised gangs target both national and international travellers. I understand that tackling the safety problems in train stations is a shared competence. I very much welcome a good cooperation with your colleague, the Minister for Mobility, and the Prime Minister of Brussels on the common aspects. In this way a good and correct solution can be offered and these figures can be pressed down. Two years ago, your colleague tried to reach out to your predecessor to work out a solution together, but unfortunately, it did not immediately produce concrete actions. Madam Secretary, do you have any idea what caused the sharp increase in the figures? Have you, as announced, already consulted with the Minister for Mobility on this issue? If not, is that planned? How do you see the increase in short-term and long-term safety in the Brussels train stations? Do you already have specific initiatives in mind, possibly together with your colleague? Does the Brussels Railway Police have enough men at their disposal to guarantee safety? If not, how large have the deficits been in recent years? How is cooperation between the Brussels, Securail SPC and STIB Security Service currently working on station safety? Do you think there is a need for a different form of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, the higher number of criminal offences recorded in the railway environment in the Brussels-Capital Region in 2019 is mainly due to the significant increase in the number of ordinary thefts. Since 2017, there has been a marked upward trend, with more than a doubling of the number of facts in 2019 versus 2016. Almost 95% of these events in the Brussels Region occur in the three main stations, in particular Brussels-North, Brussels-Central and Brussels-South, the frontrunner. Those are also the busiest stations in the country, including the ones with the most potential targets. Brussels-Zuid is also a hub for both international and national trains. In addition, the number of registered facts on foreign law also increased significantly in 2019, with a marked upward trend since 2017, with the number of facts also more than doubled in 2019 compared to 2016. This is partly explained by the many targeted actions organised by the railway police together with the other federal and local police units in 2018-2019 in the context of smuggling and transmigration. At the end of 2019, the evacuation of the Maximilian Park in Brussels also took place, creating, among other things, shifting effects of transmigrants to other public places, such as stations. During the further contacts I will have with my colleague in Mobility in the future, this Brussels theme will of course be discussed, as will safety at stations and trains in general. Of course, the aim must always be to improve safety in Brussels stations, but of course there are no miracle solutions. Safety is a complex issue and there are many partners who have a part of the solution in their hands. It is therefore important to make a thorough analysis of the problem and to work out solutions together with the various partners. The capacity utilisation rate of the railway police in Brussels has been at 101 % since early 2021 and has remained above 85% in the last five years, with the exception of 2019, when it fell to 69 % in the beginning of the year. However, efforts have been made throughout 2019 to bring the workforce back to level. Capacity utilisation was therefore brought back to 93 % at the beginning of 2020. Cooperation between the Brussels Railway Police, Securail and STIB Security Service is progressing well. There is currently no need for new initiatives. Limited integrated police actions are regularly organised. All these things are an answer to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u65	Madam Secretary, we are clearly on the same page. The problem is mainly in the three major stations. There is, of course, a need for an in-depth analysis before adequate action can be taken and, of course, there are no miracle solutions. It will have to be an en-en-story. You are planning a consultation with your colleagues on this matter. I hope that good things will come out of that and I am also very happy to hear that there are enough men here today and that this has been well worked on in recent years. The cooperation between the various services is apparently also perfect, so that is only positive news. I hope for a good follow-up and better safety in our stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u66	Debates of the European 55016109C Mr Donné was postponed. Question No 55016124C by Mr Nabil Boukili is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u67	Minister, in an era of increased digitization of municipal administrative services, the procedure for obtaining and producing a birth certificate has never been easier. On the basis of the data of the National Register, a Belgian citizen can obtain a birth certificate on request from his municipal administration or directly online. Yet a part of the population, namely the Métis from Belgian colonization, is faced with some form of administrative discrimination. There is no need to make a historical reminder of the past of these mixed-breeds that have been torn by the Belgian State from their parents and become artificially orphaned and dispossessed of their fundamental right to identity. This is a relatively small group and, given the advanced age of its members, deserves special attention. Indeed, among the various consequences that the absence of a birth certificate may entail are difficulties in issuing a proper death certificate, an essential document for their heirs and future generations. In practice, several elements can easily enable the communal administrator faced with such a request to identify his rights holders since this target group is precisely composed of citizens born in countries colonised by Belgium before their independence. Moreover, since the colonial period had passed, the outcome of such a request could not create a precedent. Finally, the establishment of such a procedure would certainly not erase the wanderings of the colonial administration at the time, but rather correct at best an injustice faced by a section of the Belgian population. Minister, have you had any contact on this matter with your colleague Minister of Justice? What has emerged from your discussions? Has a solution been found?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u68	Mr President, first of all, it may be useful to make it clear that civil status falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice and that citizens' access to their act through the online application "My FILE" is provided for in the technical operational management of the database of civil status documents entrusted to the interior without prejudice to the competences of the justice system. I would also like to point out that under the Act of 8 August 1983 establishing a national register of natural persons, any Belgian public authority may only be allowed access to information which they are entitled to know under a law. In the present case, however, a Parliament resolution does not sufficiently meet the requirement of the legality of a consultation. In the framework of the "Métis Resolution", it is indeed envisaged that the judiciary will conduct analyses of any useful data through various authentic sources, including the National Register, in order to complete the files and to be able to draw up civil status documents for the persons concerned. To that end, my services and those of the Department of Justice met and noted the following. At present, the National Register services are obviously not able to verify the files that would be transmitted by the courts themselves, for lack of legal authority to carry out such searches. As for the justice services, the authorisation of access to the data of the National Register at their disposal does not include the consultation of information relating to filiation or the purpose for which consultation is requested. An application for an extension of the access authorisation is necessary, but such an application must be based on a legal basis allowing the national register to be consulted in the context of the purpose in question. Despite the absence of the legal basis and with a view to nevertheless allowing the resolution of cases submitted in the short term, it was agreed to ask the persons concerned to contact the services of the National Register in order to ask them for the information available concerning them. Every citizen has access to his or her own data. This information may then be communicated by the persons concerned to the justice services with a view to establishing the civil status. Finally, in general terms, I would like to point out that, given the time involved, it is unfortunately very likely that the information will be missing in the National Register. Some may be included in the population registers or other paper registers of the municipalities concerned or may have been transferred to the General Archives of the Kingdom. Further information could also be included in the archives of the colonies held by the SPF Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u69	Minister, thank you for your specific answers. I recall the framework for the government's action, which is the "Métis Resolution" adopted a few years ago and which the government has committed itself to implement. I am very attentive to this issue and thank Mrs Platteau and Mr Thiébaut once again, as well as the President, for allowing me to ask my question despite my slight delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u70	Ms Platteau, since 13 March 2020, the federal phase of crisis management has been applied and policy coordination of the crisis is primarily at federal level, in line with the royal decisions of 31 January 2003 and 22 May 2019 concerning emergency planning and crisis management. In order to enable constructive and efficient cooperation with local authorities and to have a better view of the situation in the municipalities and provinces, regular consultations are held between provincial governors and certain federal actors in crisis management. During these consultations, local authorities may bring to the attention of the federal level the problems they experience on their territory, as well as other suggestions or reflections on the crisis. In this way, the governors and mayors can fulfil their supporting role in federal policy coordination, which they were also held on the basis of the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019. This support shall consist of the implementation of all policy decisions taken in the context of crisis management at federal level. On the other hand, local authorities can consult with the federal level on the necessary additional decisions at the local level. Article 27 (1) of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 reiterates and further implements the role of local authorities during the federal phase. For example, under certain conditions local authorities have the power to take both preventive and reactive measures. Those measures, which deviate from the Ministerial Decision, can be taken in a specific local situation that would require a special, more stringent approach. In no way is it intended that local authorities should relax the measures taken under the Ministerial Decision. In any event, the courts and courts have the possibility to exclude the general provincial and local decisions and regulations from application, if they see reason to do so. In addition, a procedure may also be initiated in the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State. The preliminary draft pandemic law, which we are about to discuss, currently provides for a similar consultation mechanism between the mayors and the governors, on the one hand, and between the governors and the Minister of the Interior, on the other. The text was submitted for an opinion to the Council of State and is and will continue to be the subject of debate in Parliament. We can discuss this further at this afternoon's meeting. The preliminary draft will be refined on the basis of the opinions of the Council of State and the recommendations still to be received.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u71	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the police services concerned confirm the existence of precedents in confrontations between groups from Mons and La Louvière. As a result of the recent arrests, the facts are being exploited and the consolidations between the facts can be established. As mentioned at a meeting on Friday, 26 March 2021, the objective of coordination and consultation is to promote the exchange of information between the police and prosecutors in order to identify the roles of each individual and to provide a specific response depending on the involvement of each individual. On the basis of the initial findings, many young minors appear to be involved. It is not established that the latter were present in 2019. As for the support of the Federal Police at the judicial level, the PJF has not been involved so far in this case, since, first of all, it was a public policy problem. Secondly, the judicial component is dealt with by the police areas concerned, which are a priori responsible for monitoring these urban gangs. Third, the PJF was not involved in coordination meetings between the mayors, the king's attorney, the two chiefs of corps and the DirCo. Finally, the PJF is prepared to provide support if these urban gangs are found to develop structured criminal activities or if specialized support is required. At this stage, this is a public policy problem and it is therefore consistent that the DCA Hainaut CAD service should be involved in managing this phenomenon of confrontations between youth groups. With respect to DCA Hainaut's CAD, here are the supports provided. First of all, there is the demand for reinforcements in human and material resources and the provision of radio frequencies common to the two police areas concerned. In addition, the Director of Operations forwarded to the Chiefs of Staff of the two police areas the analysis she had requested from the services of PAALCO (For an Administrative Approach to Combat Organized Crime) Namur. There is still participation in the Operational Coordination Cell, which brought together local authorities, the judiciary and the Chiefs of Staff. On that occasion, it was agreed that a task force would be created to combat this phenomenon. Finally, a request to watch social networks. The services of the two police areas concerned carry out very effective administrative research and maintain excellent contacts with the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic437x.u72	Thank you, Minister and good courage for the rest!
