ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u1	Madam President, Minister, as part of your policy brief, you have emphasized your desire to establish more humane justice and to ensure the quality of health care for inmates in the various prisons across the country. In this context, it is planned to transfer the competence of health care to prison from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Public Health. It is certain that this transfer of authority will have a significant impact on the quality of care provided to prisoners and it seems necessary that this can be achieved as soon as possible. Minister, what is the status of the discussions between the relevant departments? Within what time frame can we imagine making this transfer of jurisdiction effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u2	Madam Chair, Ms.Zanchetta, a meeting with my colleague in charge of Public Health is scheduled for February 1, 2021. The reorganization of health care in prison is on the agenda of this meeting as well as other aspects. My staff have already held a preparatory meeting with the prison administration. The documents generated by the working groups and the steering group, established under the previous legislature, will form the basis for the work of the implementation of this project. A new steering group will be set up. A first meeting will be scheduled after the interview on February 1, 2021. The aim is to prepare for this transfer by projects and to discuss it with all relevant partners, including at the level of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. Given the complexity of this case, you'll forgive me if I don't stick to a specific timing. We are working hard on this and will make gradual progress in the pilot projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u3	Minister, thank you for that answer. I imagine we'll have further details in the procedure. It is hoped that this transfer will improve the accessibility of health care to inmates who are currently not optimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I understand good news in the newspaper about something that is sensitive to you. The innovative Antwerp approach involving forensic advisors and extensive trace research shows that the number of convictions for sexual crimes doubled. This proves that DNA research is crucial in this type of crime. This is only to be welcomed, because everyone knows that the dark number is very large in the reports and even more in the convictions. However, a scientific evaluation report from the care centres shows that only 14% of the victims who were under forensic examination during the trial year and complained had analysed the samples at the end of the year. There's a lot going on there. The Antwerp approach seems to me to be very followable and should definitely be applied elsewhere. However, there are still some steps to be taken. Minister, will you provide the means to further roll out the Antwerp approach? If so, within what time frame do you see that? At present, the rule is that the prosecutor or investigating judge must decide whether a DNA analysis is effective. In view of the positive evaluation of the Antwerp pilot project and the importance of DNA research in sexual crimes, I wonder whether an analysis should not always be made of forensic traces found, rather than waiting for the magistrate's motivation. At the time, I signed a bill by Mr Crombez, which partly responds to this. I'd like to get your opinion on that. How will you continue to commit to DNA research? Will you carry out an evaluation of whether the current DNA databases and the corresponding procedures are sufficient? Mr Crombez's idea of the time on which the bill was based was actually much broader and had many interesting points of view which I would like to discuss further with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u5	My question is, of course, entirely in line with Mrs Van Peel's question. I also ask about the capacity of the NICC and the additional training of the prosecutors and investigators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u6	Firstly, we are being asked to provide the necessary resources. Each year, 75,000 women are estimated to be victims of sexual violence in our country, which is a very high figure, and that leads to about 8,000 reports of sexual assault or rape in the public prosecutors every year. From these reports, barely 900 convictions follow. This is partly due to a high level of dismissal due to a lack of evidence. The Antwerp court wanted to do things better and therefore joined forces with the NICC. How is the problem addressed? For each type of case, a specific research strategy was developed with three main categories of rape cases. A decision diagram was drawn up to support the magistrates. Streamlined work processes ensure efficient working methods. By working phasedly, only the necessary analyses are carried out. If necessary, further investigations shall be carried out thereafter. Another success factor is the intensive involvement of the NICC's forensic advice service in the investigation. This service closely follows up the dossier from the initial phase and provides professional advice. Furthermore, the targeted spore survey is wider than sperm-related spores only. Skin contact or saliva traces, for example, can also help identify suspects. Methods were developed to accurately identify where the touch occurred, together with the victim, in order to better detect traces on the clothing or on the body. Finally, statements by suspects and victims are central and are examined more specifically forensically. In this way, very targeted investigations can be carried out and it is better to find out which version of the facts corresponds to the truth. Given the good results of the project and the importance of the fight against sexual violence, resources will be allocated to further roll out that approach this year. In 2021, this will result in a continuation of the Antwerp project and its start-up in two other parquets. We will focus on additional recruitment for the NICC, which can assist the magistrates. In addition to compulsory training on sexual violence, there is no additional training, as the NICC will provide a thorough guidance to the magistrates. The project is intended to reach cruising speed in 2023, giving all districts the opportunity to adopt the approach. There is, of course, an important nuance, because there will also be a lot of attention to the cooperation with the existing and still to be established Care Centres after Sexual Violence. It is not the intention to start two different projects side by side, but rather to bring the projects closer together in such a way that there is efficiency gains and that the public prosecutors have even better weapons in their hands in the fight against sexual violence. As regards the second question, Article 44c of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the prosecutor or investigating judge requesting a DNA analysis must take a reasoned decision. According to Belgian law, therefore, police forces cannot decide which traces are subject to DNA analysis, because that assessment is confined to the magistrate. The pilot project shows that the potential of DNA research is currently not being fully exploited. Not the need for a reasoned decision is problematic, but the fact that it is not always asked by the magistrate. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to the training and forensic awareness of all those involved in judicial investigations. The Antwerp project shows that in about 30% of the rape files, the defendant broadly confirms the victim's story, but claims that sexual contact with the victim's consent occurred. On the basis of that figure, one might wrongly think that DNA research in these cases does not provide any added value. However, DNA research is also relevant in those cases, namely in order to feed the DNA database. For example, the use of the database will enable the investigation of the possible involvement of a suspect in similar files in the past. This will also contribute to a better risk assessment of the suspect. The third question concerned the DNA databases. As I have already mentioned, there will be plenty of work on forensic awareness. Better knowledge of DNA research and use of DNA databases will lead to better results. The current DNA databases are very important in exposing links between judicial files; they are also effective. In general, 1 trace profile on the 5 recorded results in the DNA databases, in an agreement with a profile prepared in the context of another judicial file. However, the use of DNA databases can and still needs to be improved, especially in the context of moral facts. A number of proposals were recently formulated by the DNA evaluation committee. The creation of a database of Sexual Crimes in which DNA profiles of persons suspected by a investigating judge were proposed. Currently, a suspect of a sexual offense is not automatically collected and analysed a DNA sample. It goes without saying that routine sampling in cases where such a crime is suspected will only facilitate identification in other cases. These possibilities will be further explored in consultation with all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u7	Minister, I feel that the will is great for you to take important steps in this respect; you really have a partner in me for that. I do think there are still opportunities as far as the database is concerned. At the moment, for example, a victim has to decide for herself whether to press charges. The figures for the declarations speak for themselves: they are very low. Often this has to do with the fact that the victims are convinced by the facts that they have little chance of making a real trial, let alone winning them. A trace of thought could be that a standard analysis is carried out every time and that data remains anonymous as long as the victim so wishes. In this way, it would be possible to put together certain files, which would mean that a victim would no longer feel that she would have to report it alone. When it comes to an unsub with several victims, the step to file a report can be reduced. It also improves the burden of proof. The speaking time is too short to go into all kinds of reflections, but I certainly want to discuss this with you in the future. I would like to thank you for the will you have shown in the file, because there is still a great deal of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u8	Minister, I too would like to thank you for your commitment, because the results of the innovative project are phenomenal. We really must do everything possible to roll it out as quickly as possible elsewhere, of course with the expertise of prosecutors and investigators and sufficient support from the National Institute, which presupposes sufficient capacity there. I am counting on you to watch over this and I am sure you will, because the approach is, of course, entirely in line with your plans and ambition. I would like to repeat the point made by the King's Attorney, who wants to send a strong signal from the court to the victims, namely that it is always useful to press charges so that an investigation can follow. The parquet will do everything in its power to find and prosecute the culprit, and thanks to the roll-out of the project that is all the more true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u9	Mrs Dierick is not present for her question No. 55012565C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in the day-to-day scandals over the expanded criminal transaction, I have had the opportunity to ask you several times about this important issue for citizens. To date, you have not taken a clear position on this law; you are content to state that it will be evaluated and reformed if necessary, without further clarification. As I have indicated, we hope that the criminal transaction will be abolished. However, since you are planning a screening assessment, I would like to ask you when it is planned. What will be the methodology? On what criteria will the law be assessed and who will be responsible for this evaluation? What reform options do you envisage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u11	My colleague, as you know, I made it clear in my policy note that we were going to show together that crime was not paying. In this context, the strengthening of the detection and prosecution of financial and fiscal offences is a priority. First and foremost, we will add specialized officials and magistrates to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is an absolute necessity for effective prosecution. Secondly, we will ensure good cooperation within the recently created College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud, in order to achieve a coordinated approach. Thirdly, we will transpose the European directive into our national law, which will improve the detection and prosecution of fraud cases. The Follow the Money principle must be applied to all crimes in order to tackle crime through the profits it generates. My colleague, you will accept that effective detection and prosecution must be a top priority. Indeed, we cannot tolerate that the perpetrators of financial and fiscal crimes can act with impunity. Without detection, there can be no suspects, and without suspects, there can be no prosecution. It goes without saying that not all cases must be decided by a court. As you have heard in my policy statement, there are other solutions such as mediation and transaction. The law extending the transaction will be evaluated in this context, but I do not set a concrete timetable in this regard, since strengthening effective detection and prosecution is a top priority and I would like to incorporate the effects of this strengthening into my assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I just recall that the issue of criminal transaction has no deterrent effect – think of repeat offenders like Stéphane Moreau, as I recalled last week. You're talking about an evaluation, but you don't have a plan, according to your comments. You don't set a timetable or goals. This is, in fact, a vague speech. I wonder if you really want to address this issue of criminal transaction because without a clear timetable or objectives, it remains a vague statement without any concrete elements. You accuse me of coming often with this issue of criminal transaction but it is because we have no concrete elements. I will therefore continue to ask the question until I get something concrete and solid and not just vague speeches that we will evaluate without any timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (COM). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u14	Mr De Maegd has indicated that he cannot be present to put his question because he has to attend another committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Bury, I have prepared a number of answers in French, as I thought I would also have a question in French. I can try to translate them into Dutch immediately. I can give you an answer based on the information given to me by the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels. On Wednesday 13 January, there have been incidents and riots organised for the Brussels North Zone Commission following the unfortunate death of Ibrahima Barrie on 9 January 2021. After the manifestation, a group of people stayed on the scene and several incidents and riots arose. Among other things, the police commissioner in the Brichautstraat was set on fire. The police have made 112 administrative arrests, including 30 minors, and 4 judicial arrests. Two year olds and a minor have been arrested for deliberately setting the Commissioner on fire. The lab and a fire expert have gone to the scene and the clothes and phones of those suspects have been confiscated. The deprivation of liberty of the three suspects was then confirmed by the court. Several research actions have been carried out. Dat was om aan het parket toe te laten "to take attitude to these suspects according to the results of his difficulties within the constitutional period of deprivation of liberty of 48 hours". The two adult arson suspects were released because there was insufficient evidence against them at the time of the investigation. The minor was made available to the court of Verviers. You hear me well, the young man came from Verviers. That's not a coincidence. Young people, often minors, from the outskirts of Brussels, but also from beyond, such as from Verviers, like to come to Brussels to make amok: Brussels as the battlefield of criminal minors. A minor has been placed at the disposal of the Public Prosecutor's Office for acts of rebellion. As far as the latter is concerned, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office brought a case before a juvenile judge and requested a measure to place him in a closed environment. At the conclusion of his hearing by the judge, he was released under several conditions, including the continuation of regular schooling and the completion of a 30-hour public service. So we set up a task force with the parquet and the six police zones to identify as many people as possible. That is what is currently being done. The parole board assures me that every effort will be made to prevent the perpetrators from going free and identifying them. I think we have done well, because 112 administrative arrests have been made. They've taken the identity, a photo and a fingerprint of each person, allowing us to compare that crucial information from the parquet with the camera footage from the facts. That should lead to identification. I assure you there will be news. Colleagues, zero tolerance does not mean that we can just arrest and condemn anyone who was near the facts. This is perhaps the way in which certain states do not take it too closely with the principles of the rule of law. I refer to Russia, where Mr Navalny is just being arrested and sentenced with an opportunity court. I know that some of you would prefer to use such procedures here, and instead of 112 administrative arrests, we would prefer to simply put 112 people in jail. They'd rather hear that they were convicted because they were on the scene. We live in the rule of law. This means that criminal law is being applied and that individual evidence is needed in order to be able to condemn someone. Under the rule of law, the police under the leadership of the prosecutor or an investigating judge search the suspect and prosecute the defendant on the basis of sufficient evidence. That is what is being done in this case. This matter is taken very seriously. We are currently verifying the identity of the perpetrators, including the arson at the police stations, but also the acts of violence against, among other things, a federal agent, of which you have also been able to learn. I am sure that the court will soon come forward with information on this matter. So the dossier will certainly not remain or will not remain in effect. Finally, I had an answer to Mr De Maegd's question, but he is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm not impressed by the barely four arrests. The loot is skinny. We've all seen the footage: a police commissioner is being set on fire, police officers are being beaten up. We heard a policewoman in the journal testify that she hadn't been around much or that she hadn't been around. Another cop thought she'd hit her last hour. No, that's by no means comparable to the arrest of Navalny who's just being arrested. Please don't pull it into the ludicrous. You're saying it's hard to put 911 people in jail because they happened to be there, but that's not what anyone's asking, is it? No one's asking! In the meantime, policemen are being beaten up and so on. Whoever does that should effectively be in prison and should not be released 48 hours later for lack of evidence. People won't stand for that anymore! I am sorry that I have to come here almost every week and complain about incidents and uprisings in Brussels. I already know that I will have to repeat the same thing over the next few weeks and months, and that is sad. I am also very concerned about your information about Verviers. A few years ago, a terrorist cell was rolled up there, but if I go through the article quickly, I read that the gang may have been rolled up, but there are still a lot of those involved. An international BOLO has therefore been sent out. How's that going? Is there a connection to those people from Verviers? That absolutely needs to be followed. Last week it was said in plenary that these things could be avoided. The mayor allowed this manifestation in corona times, knowing very well that such riots could occur. Hopefully you'll find it rioting this time too. The cell phones seized by the people who set the Commissioner on fire will show whether it was an order to come to Brussels. You don't just come from Verviers to Brussels in five minutes. In addition, I never get an answer when I ask about the nationality of the perpetrators, which I ask for every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u17	Minister, the riots were indeed avoidable. Certainly in full corona time it is a very strange decision of a mayor to allow a manifestation to take place. There were also strange reactions from the lawyer at a rather tense time. I asked you to respond to this, but I didn't get it. Thank you for the numbers. 112 administrative arrests were made, many of which were minors. 30 minors isn't nothing. There were indeed people from Verviers, a hotbed of such people who then went down to Brussels to kick ass. These thirty minors are the beginning of a problem. That is precisely why it is very important for the Justice Department to do its job now. That really is the missing link. Justice needs to start working fast. That is what you are in favour of, and it is really necessary. In fact, no one can be punished eight months after the facts, after which the execution of the sentence will have to wait again. It is really the intention and the need for the Justice Department to play briefly on the ball, so that everyone understands that such behaviour is not tolerated and that this violence is unacceptable. Justice therefore has an important role to play. Hopefully those files won't stay down, otherwise we'll be back here a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u18	Mr Minister, my question concerns the policy paper 2.0, on which we have already had the debate at the end of the discussions on the policy paper and the recommendations. You have already announced at that time that you would proceed to make a policy note 2.0, which you have also recently announced in De Standaard. As you know, during the debate, we said that it was somewhat strange that during the debate you could mention which of the recommendations made by Members of Parliament, which are merely opposition recommendations, you would follow. Apparently, you did not allow Parliament to amend the policy paper, but you held the strings yourself. All the opposition's recommendations have therefore been voted down. Now you want to include a number of recommendations and come to a policy paper 2.0. I also told you at the time that, in my view, this was not innovative at all, but that it was the normal course of action. Nevertheless, I still have the following questions. I also asked you why the opposition's recommendations were only now taken into account and the debate was not taken into account during the debate in Parliament. Why did the majority at all approve your policy paper 1.0? After all, we already knew that you would come out with an amended policy paper. That seems to me to be funny with Parliament. However, your majority has followed you. When will you propose the new text to Parliament and submit it again for approval? A policy paper must either get a majority of Parliament behind it or be approved by a majority. Given that you will come to Parliament with an amended policy paper, will you also adjust your budget figures to your changed policy? Finally, you also mentioned in the debates that you are inviting the area to make all kinds of proposals. What proposals have been put forward to you so far, and there will undoubtedly be a lot of them, have been taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u19	Madam President, you know that I have a great deal of respect for you, but as far as your first question is concerned, I think it's all looking for nails on low water. For the first time, a Minister of Justice is prepared to revise a policy statement on the basis of opposition suggestions, and then they get this kind of reaction! As I said, I think nails are looking for low water, especially since you already know the answers, I've already given them to you. It's the first time we've used this method. This time we really want to listen to the opposition and take its recommendations seriously. When you were part of the majority, nothing came of it. In no way have you given the opposition a chance to make themselves heard. The proposals had to meet three criteria: they had to be feasible, affordable and in line with the government agreement. You knew only too well that we had to present these additions within the government. That's what I told you. During the presentation of my policy paper, I was not able to declare my agreement, because the proposal had to be rejected first within the government. The Rules of Procedure do not allow you to press the pause button, to agree with the government and then to return immediately. I can't. If that's what you want, you need to change the Rules of Procedure, and we can do it differently. However, I gave my personal opinion immediately during the discussion. On three points, I agreed with the recommendations of the N-VA, and I defended them, as I promised. It was assumed that nothing would come of it in the house, but the opposite turned out to be true. And yet there's not a shred of gratitude. In addition, I explained that we would also listen to our employees. You asked why the majority approved my policy paper 1.0 at all if I wanted to make any changes to it. The answer is that the Rules of Procedure do not allow any other procedure. We had to approve this policy statement, otherwise we would not have had anything in our hands at the beginning of the reigning period. That explains why we acted that way. We had a strict time frame to discuss and vote on all policy papers. It was impossible to take all these steps in that time frame. Imagine that we would first question all employees and then draw up and present a policy paper. Then you would throw me at the fact that we have been months ahead and there is still no policy statement. I'm a man of good will, you know that. I really want to address the content of the questions. However, this is nails on low water search. Next time, we're just not going to make a policy statement that takes the opposition into account. Do you want to go back to that time? Is that what you want? So, ladies and gentlemen, when will we present the new text to Parliament? In the meantime, the amended text has been adopted in the government. During the week I will have the text delivered to the staff and to Parliament. Then you will see that we take into account the opposition's recommendations. More than that, we're even gonna implement your recommendations. I could be spiteful and speak of ingratitude, but we don't. When they go low, we go high . Shall I adjust the budget figures to my changed policy? The allocation of the 125 million for 2021 will take into account the policy paper version 2.0. Indeed, we have questioned employees and received more than 300 responses. That was the first time that the staff of the Justice Department were questioned. That's a new culture in this coalition. Madam President, with all due respect to you, you must criticise the coalition. You should have been critical, but you could have said it was a good idea, you could have asked about the state of affairs and you could have asked us what lessons we could have learned for the next time. That's constructive opposition. This will force you to show more respect, with all the sympathy for you. So much for my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u20	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. With all due respect to you, I think it's more of a sales pitch. You would have been really innovative if you had left Parliament to act. This could have been done in these recommendations. As you are in favour of certain recommendations, Parliament was also in favour of certain recommendations, I am sure. After all, they are also found in your and other party programmes. So if we had really been innovative and practical, you would have submitted your policy paper in good time and you would have allowed Parliament to vote on the recommendations that could have led to a majority. But no, you said you'd take it to the Council of Ministers. Now you would have the House re-vote on the recommendations. That is really putting Parliament out of business and putting all the power in the government. At least that's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u21	Madam President, I would like to ask you a question of a practical nature. I respect the questions you ask, of course, but in other committees, using Zoom in today's complicated organizational situation, I find it quite disturbing that the committee chair is asking the minister questions from her position as chair, especially on such questions. Perhaps there is a procedure such as this that has been set up according to Zoom? In many committees, the Presidency is left to a vice-presidency in such cases, especially since the issue was rather procedural. I understand that the covid situation does not allow this, but it seems to me that this should be subject to reflection so that the debates take place in the most serene way possible. Perhaps clarification is needed in terms of covid organization? I say this in a completely subjective way, regardless of the subject dealt with in committee. Minister, I would like to ask you about the bone tests used to determine the age of MENA. As you said very well in your general policy note 1.0 and 2.0, you will attach great importance to the consideration of the interests of children and minors. I believe that it is essential that minors receive adequate care, given their situation and their vulnerability. However, in Belgium, the so-called triple bone test is often used to determine the age of people. It's a practice of testing teeth, clavicle and another part of the body, which I forgot. This practice is strongly criticized by the Order of Physicians. It is normally intended to corroborate, depending on the tests, an age for the minor. The problem highlighted by human rights organizations is that these tests are far from 100 per cent reliable. Why? Because these tests date from an atlas designed in 1959, which was carried out on the basis of a Caucasian American population and young people living in the middle or even upper middle class. So, we match that to the physical reality of a migrant person who has had shocks of growth, who has specificities of different origins. The body of an Afghan is not the body of a Caucasian. These realities can be objectified. But these physical realities are matched to realities valid for an American of the middle class to be affluent in 1959. The European Parliament criticized this method in 2003. The High Council for Public Health in France criticized this method in 2014 and concluded that it was ethically and scientifically invalid. The Swiss Paediatric Society also criticized her. There's a lot of criticism. My questions are as follows. How many bone tests have been performed in recent years? I can ask you this question in writing if you prefer. How many young people who have declared themselves minors have been requalified as adults on the basis of their bone tests? Would you be in favour of revisiting this pseudo-scientific practice to adopt a holistic method of age estimation, as practised in Italy and Great Britain, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u22	Dear colleague, the guardianship regime for MENA was introduced by Article 479 of the Programme Law of 24 December 2002. This Act provides in its articles that guardianship services shall verify whether the person is over the age of 18. This verification takes the form of a medical test where the immigration department or authorities have a doubt as to age. The following figures relate to the number of tests and decisions issued over the past three years. As explained below, these decisions are not based solely on the results of the medical examinations. Such statistics are not, according to the Rules of the House, the subject of oral replies, but I would ask my staff to provide you with the requested figures. I'm not going to quote them here. Madam President, you know that justice is a very busy service. I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Oral questions can be put until 11 a.m. the day before the committee. I note that certain colleagues, not in this particular case, are asking for figures. It is then believed that my services can deliver all this in 24 hours. That's a lot of work. I would like questions on figures to be put in writing. After all, the number of questions cannot be considered. I'm really doing the best I can. You know me. I'm a voluntarist Minister of Justice. I am kindly chasing the people, including the public, in all possible circumstances, with respect for the third power, as you know, but I would like to see them abide by the Rules of Procedure. Mr Moutquin, the method adopted by the Tutelle Service consists, on the one hand, of a medical examination accompanied by an X-ray of the wrist, clavicle and teeth on the basis of which a doctor estimates the age and, on the other hand, of all the elements in the young person's file. The use of a medical examination to estimate an age is scientifically detailed and follows the recommendations of the Study Group on Forensic Age Diagnostics of the German Association of Forensic Medicine and of Professor Willems of the Faculty of Medicine (Department of Dentistry) of UCLouvain, who has carried out numerous research on age estimation on the basis of teeth and is considered an international expert in this field. The guidelines thus drawn up are followed by all the hospitals to which the Tutelle Service refers. Recognizing the limitations of this review, all experts recognize that age assessments from the teeth and skeleton are always enlightened assumptions that do not allow for the determination of a specific age. This is why a margin of error of one to two years is always taken into account. It is also important to note that in case of doubt, the lowest age is taken into account. Indeed, the benefit of the doubt is a principle commonly accepted and is recalled in the opinion of the Order of Physicians of 20 February 2010 according to which "the estimate always contains a factor of imprecision and can therefore only result in providing an interval of reliability. Doubt must always benefit the person who declares himself to be a minor". The Tutelle Service also relies on the other elements at its disposal: the documents provided by the young person, the narrative and the statements made by the young person during an interview with the Tutelle Service, the observation reports transmitted by the partners. All types of documents such as passports, identity documents, birth certificates, judgments are checked by the specialized services in the falsification of documents. Documents which have received a favourable opinion shall be taken into account. If, after all these considerations, there is still doubt, the decision will always give the young person the benefit of the doubt. International law on the rights of children is thus respected. The European Commission considers the age determination model used by the Tutelle Service to be "good practice". The European Asylum Support Office has developed a guide incorporating the practices of the different Member States. According to this guide, Britain uses only non-medical methods based on age assessment, in particular, on observation of physical appearance. The refusal to submit to an age assessment implies that the young person accepts the age assigned to him or her and the benefit of the doubt is not applicable. In view of these elements, the hybrid system adopted by the Belgian services, which adds up medical and non-medical methods, offers undoubtedly the best guarantee of better protection. My services have chosen not to rely on the observation of physical appearance, as in Great Britain, because it is subject to arbitrariness and is unclear. This was also confirmed by the European Bureau. My services also chose not to resort to very intrusive methods. Therefore, they do not use the method of observing sexual maturity. However, we are always open to constructive criticism and possible improvements. To this end, the Tutelle Service is kept informed of the various developments in this area. For example, in order to improve the test, my department has set up a study group to draft a new protocol for the completion of age tests. The universities of Ghent and Leuven had the task of establishing an advisory committee whose members are now known. However, due to the current health crisis, members have not yet been able to meet. In conclusion, the methods used by the Tutelle Service are part of good practice, and the Service is changing its practice according to developments in this field, with the aim of protecting those who really need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u23	Minister, thank you for your full reply. I had missing answer elements and every time you advanced in your reply, you answered them. You explain that the services take into consideration a margin of error of one or two years. According to the study which allowed the European Parliament – you have quoted the Commission, I am the Parliament – to question these bone tests, we cannot estimate the age of a minor from his 15 to his 23 years of age. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that the margin of error is actually greater than a year or two years. You also say that an initiative has been taken to work on this issue. That was my suggestion. This may be due to the fact that scientific advice is different. Some denounce this date of 1959 and others denounce other scientific medical aspects. Indeed, being able to question and reassess them is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 55012760C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u25	Madam President, Minister, last week I had the opportunity to visit the Verviers courthouse. This is the first time I've done it from bottom to bottom. As I had done with your predecessor, I have been able, on many occasions, to raise this issue with you, and I know that you are paying attention to it just like I am. Before I went there, of course, I knew that the situation in the building was serious. But honestly, I didn't necessarily imagine it at this dramatic point: floors that threaten to collapse, cracks that raise questions about the stability of buildings, security supports attached to the facade of Janson Square in order to prevent it from collapsing, transplant staff – lawyers, litigants, magistrates – having to evolve in the middle of a forest of studs, etc. The problems do not even spare the extension, which is called the new wing, completed only 25 years ago. The visit ended, the only thought that occupied my mind was this: it is not in this way that the judiciary is treated in a rule of law. Minister, Phase 3 of the construction site, which will tackle the oldest wings, is expected to begin soon. However, it seems that the general programme of the needs of Verviers' justice, which is partly a condition for the start-up of the work, is still not in the hands of local operators, particularly the Régie. So, Minister, last October, you told me that the FPS Justice had completed this work. Is that indeed the case? Do you confirm that? Within what time frame will it be transmitted and to whom, by law, at the local level? Is it also possible to obtain it, to have knowledge of it? Similarly, I would also like to know what progress has been made in implementing the masterplan of all the judicial buildings which, as you explained to me, condition a whole series of investments in the infrastructure of justice in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a distinction must be made between two dossiers. On the one hand, there is the file for the current situation of the courthouse. The Justice infrastructure services and the services of the Régie des Bâtiments are working hard on this file to find an intermediate solution for staff accommodation. Several meetings have already been held and solutions are being sought. On the other hand, there is the case for the future. We are in the process of finalizing the general programme of needs. In order to be able to refine it, my services still need to consult with the competent judicial services and other partners. I assure you that my services take this issue very seriously and do their best to find a solution in the short term as well as for the future. You have also had several exchanges with my staff on this subject. With regard to your second question, as soon as possible and after consultation with the judicial services, the program will be submitted for advice to the Inspectorate of Finance and then forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments. In answer to your third question, I can say that as soon as the program is validated by all bodies, I will be able to communicate it to you. Finally, the masterplan is being drafted in collaboration with the College of Courts and Courts, the College of Public Prosecutions and the relevant courts and the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Be sure that I do not doubt the consideration and interest of your services in this matter, especially your firm, with which I have had very positive contacts, and I thank them for their professionalism and responsiveness. If I, for my part, demonstrate such a strenuousness – hoping never to be harassing anyone – to move this issue forward, it is because there is a major issue in terms of public service for the Verviers district. I'd like to say it again. I will not be made to believe, after what I saw last week, that under such conditions there is no impact on the way justice is done, both for the staff of the courthouse and for judges, lawyers and litigants. Next, another element that must be taken into account – I know that your collaborators are also sensitive – is the architectural and historic value of the building. It is a building that dates largely from the 19th century. It is a jewel of Vervieto's heritage, with which several generations of Vervietois have grown. It is even a landmark in the verviet skyline, especially the tower of the building. That is why, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my invitation to visit him. I think that in this case, visual awareness will certainly be the best adviser to move forward, I hope, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u28	Madam President, Minister, Rule 409 (1) Sw punishes any person who has carried out, facilitated or promoted a form of female genital mutilation as a perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Van Peel, thank you for your interesting questions, which I will combine in my answer. First of all, I will deal with Mrs Rohonyi's first question and with questions 1 and 2 by Mrs Van Peel together. In this area of crime, the number of cases opened in the public prosecutor's offices and the number of prosecutions initiated by the public prosecutor's offices do not allow an image to be drawn of the criminological phenomenon of female genital mutilation. It is conceivable that sexual mutilation can be practised in Belgium, that no complaints are ever filed and that no information goes back to the police services, thus to the public prosecutor's offices. As a result, the number of cases opened could be explained by the fact that female genital mutilation would be carried out in the most clandestine manner. The FGM could be a reality in Belgium and yet remain almost invisible for the police and therefore for the prosecution because of the absence of a victim's complaint and a large lack of feedback. This small number of cases registered in Belgium under the prevention code 43K "sexual assaults" can also be explained by the following circumstance. Prosecutors' offices have been seized since 2008 of information or a complaint about an act of sexual mutilation committed in Belgium, but this prosecutor's office has not registered an FGM file under the Prevention Code 43K. This can have happened in several parquet floors. Indeed, it cannot be ruled out that encoders of one or more prosecutors' offices have registered cases of sexual mutilation under other codes of prevention, such as those attributed to intentional assault or indecent assault. If this has been the case, these records are statistically invisible when a computer extraction is carried out on the basis of the 43K prevention code. Moreover, it can also be said that the main objective of criminal policy in this area is to prevent FGM by working with front-line actors, by being aware of the possible signs of imminent FGM and by regulating quickly. It is for this reason that the judiciary, together with the Order of Physicians, has contributed to the implementation of the code for reporting FGM, drawn up by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and available on its website. The threat or implementation of civil and protective measures associated with criminal nature and extraterritorial scope ensure that the practice of FGM can be avoided and that girls at risk can be protected. The low number of prosecutions and the absence of convictions are therefore not representative of the success of the policy in this area, which focuses more on prevention and protection than on repression. The amendments to article 458 bis of the Criminal Code are also part of this and are certainly decisive in the case of early detection of FGM cases. As I said earlier, a number of cases are probably not registered under the appropriate prevention code, which means that conviction figures do not reflect the exact reality of the phenomenon. Persons who should be convicted for this information may be registered under other codes. I would therefore like to refer to the reply that has just been given. Unfortunately, until now, the police have hardly been informed of the facts of female genital mutilation. In my view, it is particularly important to focus more heavily on sensitisation. Women and girls who have had to undergo such genital mutilation must also dare to report the facts committed to the competent investigation services. On question No. 3 by Ms.Rohonyi, four cases were brought into the public prosecutor's office in 2018 and two cases were brought in 2019. Mrs Rohonyi, I do wonder, partly on the basis of the answer given by the court, on which basis the figures in your question, namely 18,000 women and 9,000 girls, are supported. With regard to question 4 by Mrs Rohonyi, for those introduced in 2018, three were closed, two for inadmissibility and one for insufficient charges. With regard to those introduced in 2019, both were classified without further action, one for lack of infringement and one for expediency. I don't have the borough breakdown. As regards Mrs Van Peel's third question, in 2017, guidelines were issued by the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General, the COL 06/2017. The aim of this circular is to develop a specific criminal justice policy based on a better knowledge of the phenomenon by the various actors in the field. Another important aspect of this letter is that Justice should cooperate with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The prosecutors must always inform the Institute of a case concerning a mutilation brought before the competent court. They must also automatically deliver all copies of judgments and judgments in this field. In addition, the Justice Department also cooperates with the GAMS vzw, an important non-profit association in this area. It is important to further sensitise the parquet magistrates in the field of mutilation and to point out to them its great hidden nature. A 2018 study by the Institute of Tropical Medicine commissioned by the FPS Public Health about the prevalence of female genital mutilation and its risk in Belgium shows that women and girls are intact but at risk of circumcision. The so-called dark number is very high and it is very important that the Justice and Police are aware of this and are aware of the possible signals. The COL 06/2017 offers the necessary handles and also the possibility to deal with the cases of mutilation, and mainly of risk of mutilation. The COL offers a range of civil and criminal law as well as protective handling modalities. In order to bring the COL 06/2017 to the attention, in collaboration with the non-profit association GAMS and the non-profit association INTACT, another non-profit association with specific attention to mutilation, was provided with a training on the application of the circular. Cooperation with the Institute is also very important. For this reason, it is also present at the meetings of the Crimes Expert Network against persons of the College of Attorneys General, in which this letter was further followed and evaluated. For me too, it is of paramount importance to prevent these serious and harmful crimes against girls and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u30	Thank you for your long answer, Minister, that shows your interest in this issue. I think that this can be welcomed and I invite you to support your efforts in this area. In Belgium, there is a fairly clear arsenal and it has constantly evolved to combat female genital mutilation as best it can. As you said, in 2001, this practice was criminalized in our Criminal Code. A law was also passed in 2018 to expand cases where a doctor may derogate from his professional secrecy to report cases of female genital mutilation to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, what we are observing, and you have rightly said, is that there are not only people who send their young girls abroad to be excised, but that there are also excisions that are practiced underground in our own country. It's just unbearable. The purpose of my question is therefore to know how, despite this legislative provision, such important figures are still being obtained. You were surprised by the numbers I presented to you. These are figures put forward by associations, including GAMS, an association with which I look forward to seeing you work. Despite all this, the number of cases opened by prosecutors is very low. You explained it by the fact that these incriminations are not registered under the correct prevention code. This is a serious problem because for violence against women – what this is about – we are systematically told that we lack figures. This problem was highlighted in particular by the Istanbul Convention. In the absence of a true census of violence against women, including cases of female circumcision, the tools for adopting appropriate and optimal measures to prevent such practices are not available. I would like to add another small question. Today, it is known that judges are being trained in the fight against violence against women. Is it clear and planned today that this training also covers cases of female genital mutilation? Have judges ever benefited from it today? I think it's important because behind the figures put forward earlier, there are lives, women, and girls who are amputated for life. It's just unbearable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u31	Thank you for the answers, Minister. You say sensible things. With the legislation, we have taken important steps forward in this country. Part of your explanation that something may go wrong in the registration and that it is intended to have a preventive effect will also be correct. I wish I could believe that that effect already explains the low figures today. But I fear, like the previous speaker, that the problem is also largely due to the fact that there is a taboo of genital mutilation and that this is happening in closed communities. There is a need for greater openness in these communities and, in addition, there is a need for preventively active awareness-raising campaigns so that genital mutilation does not happen again or when it does. It's still a focus. I understand from your explanation that this remains a point of interest to you as well. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u32	Madam President, Minister, last November I asked Minister Verlinden about State Security. She sent me back to you on personnel matters. You know the risk of terrorist attacks, still today. The OCAPI is evaluated on a scale of 4. However, while this risk is still present, it is all the more so in the light of the concerns expressed by many State Security officials, who share with us the difficulties associated with the lack of resources available to them. In particular, there is a glaring lack of staff that forces the service to abandon certain tasks, such as organized crime or certain sectarian organizations. We need an effective intelligence and security service that has the human and material resources to carry out its missions. Minister, can you clarify the following questions? It is reported that the recruitment of current staff planned by the previous government is insufficient and will not be able to fill departures in 2021. Is there a strategy to strengthen the human and technical capacities of these services as soon as possible? If so, when can we expect an effective increase in staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u33	Madam Chair, Mr.De Smet, already in 2017-2018, the State Security was performing internal work to define and describe the functions to be recruited as a matter of priority. Since then, the State Security Service has managed to organize numerous selections. These, targeting in particular operational staff, analysts, specific profiles for the Department of International Relations, project managers, have regularly attracted many candidates. This has helped to renew part of the staff and to reduce the average level of the age pyramid. In order to continue to carry out its legal tasks while reducing the pressure on current employees, the State Security must have an ambitious recruitment policy aimed at approximately doubling the number of active personnel. As Minister, I am committed to strengthening the State Security and I am working with her to see what is reasonably possible for the next few years. As you know, an organization must have capacity not only for recruitment but also for onboarding as well as in-depth training. Let's not forget the physical place! For example, about 100 new employees, inspectors, analysts, ICT profiles and many others are planned for the year 2021. Given the limited managerial capacity and the planned natural departures and career reorientations, the bonus of additional full-time equivalents will be around 20 compared to 2020. The goal is to have more significant growth by 2022. In order to have a significant strengthening of State Security in 2021 without a major increase in staff, we will already invest in equipment and CTI and consider a significant increase in staff by 2022. In addition, the project set out in the Government Agreement to create a single statute between the civilian staff of the CGRS, the OCAM staff and the State Security staff should also allow for the sharing of selection processes while encouraging rotations between the members of these services according to the needs of the moment. Here are my answers, Mr. De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and detailed answer. We will of course follow your efforts. I can only encourage you to support this service, which is vital to monitor potential terrorist threats in the years to come. These threats seem to be taking second place because of the covid but remain very real. We encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Segers's 55012816C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u36	Madam President, Mr Segers, with regard to the multidisciplinary centre for West Flanders and its added value, it seems in itself a good idea to bring together the services specialised in this area in one place, where administrative handling can take place. As a result, local police are relieved and all tasks are concentrated in one place. More cooperation and better flow of information between the various services involved across the borders of our country's administrative levels remain a critical success factor in this complex, layered problem, I am sure. The police speak more of an administrative handling centre. Such a centre was established under the previous government, namely Centre 127bis in Steenokkerzeel. That's where everyone who was illegally passing through our country to the United Kingdom was taken. This center soon died a silent death. Before taking a new initiative, it is therefore important to find out where it went wrong, so that the same mistakes are not made again. After all, logistics requires some work. Your second question was whether, in addition to members of the federal judicial police, I am prepared to include representatives of, among other things, the Voogdij and specialised centres in trafficking in human beings. It is important, as you point out, that the link with trafficking and trafficking in human beings is established when such an orientation centre is set up. Belgium has long had a multidisciplinary approach to trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. This approach has been adapted several times and can now be found in the joint circular of 23 December 2016. This circular determines how a victim can be detected, referred and supervised. Various actors are involved, such as the Foreign Affairs Office, the specialized reception centres and the police services. These actors are already well aligned through this mechanism. The central role in this approach is taken up by the Magistrate Human Trafficking, who, after consulting other actors, is the only one who can decide whether someone is a victim of human trafficking. This approach should therefore be the basic philosophy for the conceptual development of such a centre. In this sense, a representation of the Voogdij Service and of the recognized and specialized centres is certainly important. However, such an approach also requires the necessary resources, staff and an adapted infrastructure. Finally, it remains important that further training be given to the police on the indicators of trafficking in human beings, so that there are specialised people on the ground. Your third question was whether I would advocate an appropriate infrastructure for this overall approach. I could answer this question in the affirmative, but I fear that we will not get much further with a plea for an adapted infrastructure. On the other hand, I cannot and will not make any promises that I cannot deliver as they exceed my strict competence as Minister of Justice. However, I do have confidence in the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell to combat human trafficking and trafficking in human beings and the commitment of the services represented in it. I will specifically ask this cell to look at your proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and your commitment. I think we're all on the same page. I've also interviewed Minister Verlinden and Secretary of State Mahdi before. They also showed the will to make something of this. I think you're gonna get a long way. Everything you're gonna sit down together. I agree with your analysis that we should not make the mistake made by the previous government in Steenokkerzeel. We warned about this at the time, and that was unfortunately the case. That became a story of revolving door politics at the time. We really want it to be a policy of action, by dealing usefully with the smugglers who have come through the interception on the radar. Minister Verlinden agreed with me in that sense that the term 'handelcentrum' was not a good term. It's not the intention to just handle it administratively and ready. It's also a disrespectful term. That is why I have advocated the term center for transit migration. That term is not sacred, but it is best that we use another word. We really need to go for the global approach, for a multidisciplinary approach. There are many stories from the past that have been found, for example in Steenokkerzeel, that they didn't even have time to read cell phones anymore. However, this is essential information to roll up networks. This is really going to be a symbolic policy in which one can show off all sorts of figures of interception, but that is not going to help. It may not sound very respectful, but the smugglers are evidence of the criminal networks. We must be able to eradicate these networks with root and branch by tackling the smugglers. That's why we need information. For this we also need meaningful police work, embedded in the multidisciplinary structure. Not only do I advocate this, but my party is not only in favour of it, because that is what the P Committee wants. Thank you very much for looking at this further. I think this is controlled, human and efficient. This way we will be able to roll up the networks better. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u38	Madam President, Minister, the day before yesterday, Monday 18 January 2021, there was very good news about the exchange of DNA databases between Belgium and the United Kingdom. I am absolutely not an expert on this subject, but I saw a number of magistrates on social media indicating that there was still a very cumbersome procedure that should be simplified. That was enough for me to ask a question about that. Have you been able to inform yourself? Is the procedure really that lousy? What can you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u39	The automatic exchange of DNA data in accordance with the Prüm Convention takes place in two steps. In the first step, the DNA profiles are exchanged between two DNA databases, for example the Belgian and the UK, and similarities between profiles are revealed. That's a purely scientific-technical step. The criteria to be met by the agreements are laid down in a decision of the European Council and are the same for each Member State. This step remains unchanged for the United Kingdom, as the United Kingdom has left the EU at the beginning of this year. In the second step, the identity and/or file data associated with the DNA profiles with which a match was found should be exchanged. This step is not laid down in a decision of the European Council but is subject to national legislation. This may vary considerably from one Member State to another. For example, Belgium differs from most other EU Member States because forensic DNA research is entirely the responsibility of the Justice Department. All communication goes through a magistrate. In all other Member States, with the exception of the Netherlands and Luxembourg, forensic DNA investigations are the responsibility of the police. For the exchange of identity and file data, those Member States will then use the interpolative channels, e.g. Interpol. The Belgian authorities do not have access to these channels and must work on the basis of European research orders. Some Member States do not accept such an investigation order along an unsecured network and/or refuse to provide the answers to such an order on paper or by e-mail. You asked what I will do to simplify the procedure. All interested parties in Belgium, being the federal prosecutor, the federal police and the NICC, are aware of the problem. Currently, the federal prosecutor and the federal police are looking at how the problem can be addressed by optimising the flow of information. A possible legislative amendment will also be considered, aligning the exchange and sharing of information with the way in which it is organised in the other countries and giving federal police access to databases in order to link the identity to a validated match.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u40	Minister, your answer has helped me to learn a little bit. It's good to hear that we'll be watching that together. With us it is Justice and not the police, and that is why there are problems with exchanging data with Interpol. It's a technical matter and it's not that simple to get admission. It is up to you to draw up a draft so that the simplification can be approved here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u41	Minister, this question concerns the publication of judgments and judgments through a single publicly accessible database as provided for in the law of 5 May 2019. What is the state of play with regard to implementing decisions? You know that the law will enter into force on 1 September of this year. This law also provides for anonymisation. To what extent do you intend to complete this anonymisation with the implementing decisions? To what extent is it not contrary to the disclosure of judgments and judgments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not right that the anonymisation of judicial decisions should not be the rule in other countries. This issue was addressed in comparative legal studies of 2014 and 2017. The general conclusion of these studies was that the anonymisation of judgments published on the Internet is common in almost all European countries, with the exception of the common law countries Ireland and the United Kingdom. In fact, the 2019 law chose to anonymize decisions. This means that prior to publication, the identification of the parties to the procedure as well as of other natural persons involved in this procedure is prevented by the deletion or replacement of the personal data by false data in the version of the decision to be published. Anonymisation of publicly accessible decisions is, of course, crucial in order to be able to respect the privacy rules. It does not jeopardise the constitutional principle of public access. Important is the way of anonymizing. The ideal solution would be an ICT tool that automatically anonymizes the chosen data in the 1 million sentences and judgments. Unfortunately, today's technology has not evolved so far that this is 100 % possible. In the Netherlands, anonymizing is happening in a manual way today, but the website case law.nl publishes only a small selection of judicial decisions. In France and Austria, Justice is experimenting with such tools, but they have not yet found an ideal solution. The Law of 5 May 2019 provides only a legal basis for the creation of a database of judgments and judgments, but does not provide a legal framework. In the creation of a database, a number of issues must be enshrined in the law and then further regulated and implemented by royal and ministerial decisions. This also applies to the Data Protection Authority, which was not consulted before this law. The precise legal framework is also lacking for the anonymisation of judicial decisions. For example, it does not define which data should be anonymised. It is about personal data that allow for the direct identification of parties, such as the name and national registry number of parties, magistrates or police experts, witnesses and others, but also about personal data that allow parties to identify an injustice series, such as the address, profession, banking data, financial data, company data or location names. Should criminal and civil decisions be treated in the same way? What checks are being made? Who anonymizes and how? All these questions were not answered in the aforementioned law. For this reason, there is a project within Justice aimed at supplementing, on the one hand, the legal framework for a database of judgments and judgments and, on the other hand, the creation of the database, taking into account the needs of both internal and external users of Justice and, in the field of anonymisation, taking into account the rules on the protection of personal data. After all, you know that when judgments and judgments are digitised, the GDPR applies. We must take this into account. Within the project there is also a lot of attention to developing a system for automatic anonymisation of judgments and judgments, together with the experts from the different universities of our country. A working group, consisting of the representatives of the judicial order, the FPS Justice and the data protection officers of the FPS and the judicial order, is tasked within this project with the elaboration of the provisions relating to the anonymisation that will be included in the new legal framework. So far, my answer about what we're all doing to make that database effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am aware that we have adopted legislation, but that we have, as it were, given it completely out of the hands of the executive. Should I derive from your reply that the entry into force, already postponed by one year to 1 September 2021, is difficult to achieve?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u44	Mr Verherstraeten, we will try to do so by 1 September of this year. The big question will, of course, be whether we are talking about new or historic judgments and judgments and how far we are going to get by anonymizing. We are looking at all these issues now. It remains the ambition to meet that deadline. In the working group, we need to study this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u46	Mr Minister, as you know, Western democracies have experienced a tragic event: dangerous right-wing groups have stormed the Capitol. They were conspiracy and reactionary groups. The analysis of the images shows a fairly broad and varied panel, bringing together neo-Nazis, plotters, satanists and I pass – all belonging to far-right mobilities. The FBI has clearly shown that it is through social networks that physical or verbal hate speech is scattered. These images prove how fragile our democracies are. You know better than anyone. At home, we also see dangerous tendencies to glorify violence, which seem to be intensifying. For example, far-right Members present in this Parliament are showing up with weapons on social networks and encouraging their activists to learn to carry weapons, while holding defamatory statements against "Muslim extremists". This gives a disturbing idea of what these people could do. We can also remember those camps that were discovered in Eastern Europe, where Belgian citizens would train to promote far-right ideas. It should also be remembered that this far-right party is pushing to roll on Brussels by using rhetoric that calls into question a government described as "illegitimate", in the same way as what is happening in the United States. In addition, some members of this formation arrive in a car flanked by neo-Nazi signs. I shall end my presentation here, the aim of which is to show that Belgium also has reason to worry about extreme right-wing radicalism, which is sometimes stimulated by certain political parties. Minister, the far right is dangerous, the far right kills in Europe and elsewhere. What lessons do you learn for our country's internal security from the Capitol storm? How do you assess the risks of attacks on Belgian elected officials and democratic institutions? Have any additional measures been taken to monitor extreme right-wing groups? Is there a deradicalisation plan for these people, like what is often mentioned – rightly – for Islamist extremism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the United States is of course very specific. It is characterized by a great polarisation of society, a polarization that has increased since Donald Trump's election to the presidency and which culminated in the unacceptable violence of 6 January. This polarization is the result of a particular history in which the memory of the Civil War, slavery and racial segregation and the current existence of many discriminations play a crucial role. Other factors, such as the free circulation of firearms, are also involved. In such a context, the US authorities are facing violent right-wing extremism that fortunately cannot be compared with what is happening in our country. However, thanks to social networks, ideas circulate easily. The influence of the theses of white supremacists and conspiracy groups such as the QAnon movement is seen in Belgium, where it feeds our right-wing extremist scene. The American news with Donald Trump's populist and anti-electist speech, and then his unprecedented historical denunciation of the results of the presidential elections are extensively commented on by the Belgian right-wing extremists, many of whom take up the cause for the outgoing US President. In 2 hours and 12 minutes, the Americans will finally have a new president. These ideological influences and North American news feed our right-wing extremists. However, the situation is in no way comparable to that prevailing in the United States. In Belgium, as in all Western liberal democracies, some groups perceive a gap between elected citizens on the one hand and institutions on the other. Right-wing extremists have slipped into this flaw that they exploit as best they can. A number of threats against politicians in recent years have been made by individuals from the right-wing extremist sphere. The motivations for these threats are often linked to a migration policy deemed too lax. The health crisis caused by the covid-19 and the measures adopted to control it have created threats that have been made against the virologists who advise the government. Once again, I would like to point out that the situation is only very partially comparable to that prevailing in the United States. The Belgian services are, of course, following the situation with particular attention. Fortunately, the Belgian intelligence and security services did not wait for the events of January 6 in Washington DC to monitor and fight against right-wing extremist individuals and groups in our country. The activism of these individuals and groups has indeed increased in recent years. The Radicalism Plan forms the basis of the approach which allows coordinated action between services with a judicial, administrative, socio-preventive or curative purpose, regardless of the level of power (federal, regional or local). The services collaborate, exchange information, set priorities, make early detection and agree on the right approach within the well-known local task forces and the right-wing Extremism working group chaired by the OCAM. The tool that makes this collaboration possible is the so-called common database, the list of extremist terrorists. In January, this common database contains 28 right-wing extremist individuals considered to be hate propagandists and 21 right-wing extremist individuals considered to be potentially violent extremists. These figures are steadily increasing. With regard to your question about a plan for the deradicalisation of these people, I should like to mention Plan R already mentioned, which is based on the principle of close cooperation and coordination between the security services and those responsible for the affairs of the Communities and Regions. I must remind you that the competence to prevent radicalisation lies largely with the federated entities but also with the local level. The Integral Security Cells (CSILs) are socio-prevention platforms, i.e. they aim to detect signs of radicalisation (whatever the nature of it) as well as to monitor the reintegration of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u48	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I agree with you that our history differs from that of the United States, even though it has also had dark moments. There is a structural racism that has polarized American society for a very long time. You don't minimize the increased danger. You yourself say that the numbers are on the rise. I must tell you, however, that last week, two elected ecologists were quoted defamatoryly in Parliament and since this quote from the far right, they are afraid for their lives, because death threats have been made on social networks. This demonstrates once again that even if we do not have to compare our situation with that of the United States, solutions must be found to deal with press offences and hate crimes on social networks that can stimulate things. We must realize today that when we are elected from a democracy, we can be afraid for his life because some menace it. It must mobilize all of us, whether you are ministers or parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u49	Mr Vice Prime Minister, I have a question on an article I read this week. She's also related to the series of questions I submitted earlier. More specifically, it concerns the evaluation report of the Muslim executive. After all, you told me two weeks ago that you really want to get on with this, which I would like to hear, and that you were expecting an evaluation report by the end of January. Yesterday, if I am not mistaken, I read in a French newspaper, La Dernière Heure, that this report would have been delivered to you on Thursday. What's in that report? Can the report be delivered to the Chamber? What will you do with these recommendations? I understand that you have a strong commitment to try to update the Muslim executive and make Islam in Europe and in the West compatible with the values of enlightenment. This is a very important challenge and there is a lot to be done in France too. I am sure you will follow that very closely. There is a charter and a law in force. However, a very negative opinion from the Council of State was received last week. What exactly do you intend to do? After all, this is very important for our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u50	Madam President, Mr Francken, the evaluation report I have received contains an overview of the activities of the last six years. It also includes an evaluation of the functioning of the Muslim executive and a series of recommendations for improvement and renewal. I will forward this report to Parliament. The recommendations made by the Muslim executive are almost entirely in line with what I have already stated about the Muslim executive, in particular recommendations on, first of all, the representativeness: male/female, little or no female presence in the womb of the Muslim executive, French-speaking versus Dutch-speaking, as I said earlier, and the need to be representative when it comes to the different orientations within Islam. Secondly, there is the recommendation on transparency. There too, I refer to my earlier position: foreign interference, let alone espionage, cannot, of course, exist. Thirdly, there are recommendations on professionalism. These concepts need little explanation. As stated in my reply to your question of 4 January last, I will discuss this evaluation and the proposals for renewal carefully in the coming weeks and then, of course, act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u51	Mr Vice Prime Minister, I am very pleased that I have the impression that you really want to get to work on this. As you saw on Twitter, I read the article in Knack, following you. You're radiating a lot of dynamics. I'm trying to be a dynamic person myself. I think we have that labor force in common, and that's your honor. I wish you every success in that. It's kind of cool to see a real shock at the Justice Department. I understand that the report is ready and that it will be delivered to the Chamber. The report refers to a number of issues that have already been addressed here, including representativeness. Indeed, the division between Dutch and French and that between husband and wife can be improved, as can the functioning of the Muslim executive itself. I regret, however, that subsidies to the Muslim executive have increased by 50% a year over the last 5 years. It is true that you did not start; that goes back to the Swedish coalition. A number of projects have now been included in the budget. If I understood correctly, you said in your previous reply that everything, including the projects, was included in the regular budget. It is therefore not entirely correct to suggest that the funds have increased by 50%, but it is indeed a significant increase, including in the basic amount. I would therefore like to call on you, Mr Vice-President, to make it clear to the Muslim Executive that all resources will be frozen until far-reaching reforms have been carried out. I also read in La Dernière Heure that you are under attack from your statements about Western Islam. They seem to have fallen very badly. Good consultation is gonna be important, but I have to admit, I personally don't mind it. In a democracy, for example, after an attack or after the decapitation of Samuel Paty, you should be able to take the chair and speak clearly. I have no problem with that, and many citizens of this country with me, I suspect. After all, we are not getting anywhere with a long-term policy. However, I would urge you to continue to consult with the Muslim middle-field organizations, if I may call them that. I wish you every success and look forward to the report. Madam President, I assume that the report will be sent to us today so that we can study it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u52	Once the report is forwarded, it will also be on the extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u53	The financial management of the syndician shall be subject to certain checks by law prior to the general meeting. In particular, the law provides that the general meeting shall annually designate a commissioner on the account or a college on Commissioners of the account. The Commissioner may be a co-owner and must check the account of the association of co-owners. The Commissioner's intervention does not prevent the other co-owners from consulting the accounting documents prior to the meeting, but also during the year. The law also provides for the establishment in each building of at least twenty plots of the co-ownership board, whose co-owners may be members and whose mission is to ensure that the syndicus performs his duties properly. The syndician is, of course, obliged to cooperate so that the checks thus prescribed by law can be properly carried out. Article 577 provides that members of the association of co-owners may, subject to unanimity, take in writing all decisions which fall within the powers of the general meeting, with the exception of those to be taken by authentic instrument. The syndician shall draw up the minutes thereof. The wording of this text does not seem to preclude written decisions on the statement of accounts and the budget being taken by the association of co-owners without the syndicus being able to oppose them. Article 54 of the Law of 20 December 2020 allows the postponement of general meetings under certain conditions. However, the article specifies that the syndician nevertheless holds a general meeting at the request of one or more co-owners who hold at least one fifth of the shares of the common shares or where a decision is appropriate. Article 577.6 already provides for the possibility for co-owners who hold one fifth of the shares in the common shares to request the holding of a general meeting. This article also specifies that the syndician holds a general meeting if an urgent decision has to be taken in the interest of co-ownership or has been designated as a decision, as there would be a risk that this would lead to an exhaustive interpretation. For example, structural work on the stability, strength, waterproofness and safety of the building can be considered here. Whether a decision is appropriate is, of course, different for each co-property. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the law of 20 December 2020 provides for different possibilities for organising a general meeting in the current circumstances. The law makes it possible to keep the general meeting at a distance and also provides for a temporary relaxation of the unanimity requirement in the case of written decisions taken by an association of co-owners. Moreover, as indicated in the previous paragraph, the law allows a general meeting to be held at the request of co-owners who hold at least one fifth of the shares of the common shares or when a decision has been designated. These different legal possibilities should therefore allow for a general meeting to be held and for the necessary documents to be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u55	Minister, on 8 January the newspaper De Standaard announced that the government is proposing three candidates to replace the Belgian judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The case law of that court is very important for various national policies, from migration to justice. The European Convention on Human Rights contains many open provisions which are open to interpretation. In this respect, the casting of judges is very important. It is advisable to choose prudent judges who, in their career as a lawyer, have not been guided by political activism, in any direction. Unfortunately, we find that the federal government has done exactly that. At least two of the three selected candidates are openly known for political activism. That applies to Mrs Maïté De Rue. She is currently a lawyer in New York at Open Society, the NGO of left-wing Hungarian-American billionaire George Soros. This NGO sponsors numerous organisations that pursue open borders in word and deed, including by financing ships that pick up illegal boat migrants off the coast of Libya, after which they are dropped off in Europe. The same concerns apply to the second candidate proposed by the government, Mrs Sylvie Sarolea. In a fiercely discussed interview in Le Soir in 2019, she lanced for smooth migration legislation and reached out to former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken, who accused her of "a diabolical discourse," which would cause cracks in the population. This is a worrying and undemocratic process and is not in proportion to the importance of these appointments for our country in particular and for Europe in general. I like the independence, impartiality and neutrality of the judge. Mr Minister, how did the selection of these candidates take place? Are you prepared to allow a debate with the Justice Committee on that nomination? Are you prepared to let the three candidates be heard by the members of the Committee on Justice, in order to ensure the necessary political neutrality that judges in the European Court of Human Rights have to demonstrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u56	Madam President, Mr D'Haese, the selection of those people has been subject to a procedure which we have, of course, followed. The final selection will be made by the Council of Europe, which, as you know, is at the root of the European Court of Human Rights. We can only make a presentation on the basis of a defined procedure. The national selection procedure for candidates submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been organised and implemented in full transparency and in strict compliance with relevant international resolutions and recommendations. The jury shall be well-balanced, firstly as regards professional experience. Among the seven members of the jury are the chiefs of our three highest judicial bodies, in particular the Court of Cassation, the Council of State and the Constitutional Court. You say that you love the independence of the magistrate, who you think should be able to judge in complete independence. Well, I think the three chiefs of police will vouch for that. The President of the Supreme Court of Justice is also part of this. A member of my administration, specialising in proceedings before the Court, is also involved in the selection of this post at the Council of Europe. You also mentioned Parliament's participation. Well, also the Presidents of Chamber and Senate, venerable institutions, were involved in this. So that was the composition of the jury, balanced by 4 women and 3 men. On 5 and 6 November this jury heard the 18 candidates, including six women. These candidates were magistrates, lawyers and university professors, and I can confirm that the applications were of high quality. The Selection Board has followed the guidelines of the Committee of Ministers and the set up advisory college of experts on the qualifications of the candidates to be selected. The guidelines of the memorandum drawn up by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe were also followed. The Selection Board has made a selection, firstly, taking into account the candidates' ability to perform a judicial function. Secondly, the scientific qualities demonstrated by the practice of human rights, university education, research and publications were taken into account. Thirdly, it concerned the personal motivation of the candidates with regard to the values contained in the ECHR. Fourthly, the general transversal vision of the candidates with regard to all rights covered by the Convention and the additional protocols was examined. Fifthly, it concerned the presentation by the candidates of their views on the place of the Court in the international legal system, its functioning and the challenges. Sixthly, the candidate's ability to express himself in the two working languages of the Court was assessed. Finally, the quality of oral performance at the auditions was taken into account. You can see that a lot of hurdles had to be taken by the different candidates. Following this rigorous selection procedure, the jury, by a very broad majority, submitted to the Council of Ministers in alphabetical order the three candidates whom it considered most likely to meet the above criteria. On 27 November 2020, the Council of Ministers confirmed that they saw this candidate of the highest quality in order to exercise the office of judge at the European Court of Human Rights in a peer-reviewed manner, while respecting the necessary balance between the interests of the individual and the community. Finally, Mr D'Haese, I will not prejudic the proposed candidates in advance, as you do. More than that, I will not accuse the judges of activism or world alienation, as some have done within your party. As Minister of Justice, I will accept a court ruling and respect it, even if it does not suit me. This can be expected from Members of Parliament, from members of the government and, in particular, from the Minister of Justice. You know, populism begins where the second and third powers don't respect each other. That is a reference to the trias politician of Montesquieu, the beginning of our democracy. Since its creation, more than half a century ago, the European Court of Justice has been a beacon for the democratic rule of law, by weighing up systematically each time whether an infringement of fundamental rights and freedoms is still justified and necessary to safeguard our rule of law. So far, Mr D'Haese, my answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u57	Minister, you gave a clear answer on the first aspect, on how the selection was carried out in practice. It is good that you provide some transparency on this. That's appreciated, too. You have not actually answered the second and third questions, whether you are prepared to hold a debate in the Committee on Justice and to make these candidates heard. Why are there three lectures to follow in the footsteps of Mrs Tulkens or of my former professor Paul Lemmens, whom I have always appreciated? Why have three candidates been nominated here? Are you prepared to allow a dialogue on the Justice Committee? I didn't hear that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic343x.u58	We have followed the procedure, as has always been the case in the past. I do not think that the candidate judges should be questioned by Parliament. That's not in accordance with the procedure. The discussion is about the procedure itself, which I would like to take up. After all, Parliament is the heart of democracy. Here we can really debate any possible subject. The international resolutions and recommendations in this area must of course be taken into account. We cannot avoid what the Council of Europe requires us to do.
