ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u1	Mr President, Minister, quite a few Belgians still have months after corona contamination to suffer from many symptoms. We have heard this from Ann Li, the founder of the Flemish association of post-covid patients, who we have also heard in the context of the resolution adopted on this subject. Parliament has recognised the problem. On 6 May, we adopted the resolution which recognises and properly monitors and supports patients who are confronted with the long-term effects of COOVID-19. I'd like to get an update. What is the position with regard to the implementation of this resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u2	More than ten percent of former corona patients still bear the consequences six months after their infection. Professor Geert Molenberghs, biostatistician at Hasselt University and KU Leuven, estimated the number of people who live in post-covid at around 300,000 to 350,000. Their symptoms range from mild symptoms and pain over extreme exhaustion, memory problems to nervous system disorders and even organ damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u3	Minister, I could also have referred to my question, but additional data have come in the meantime. On the one hand, as you know, for a long time, I was the first to sue you about people with long covids. We have data at the international level, numerous scientific publications and guidelines are put in place in a number of countries. As has just been pointed out, I myself have tabled a resolution, which was followed by a joint resolution on the need for comprehensive support and a series of approaches to reimbursement. Several actors had mentioned shortcomings in the management of treatment for patients with long covid even if some things exist. The KCE has just published a study and a series of data on long covid, more specific to Belgium. I repeat, we have a lot of international scientific data. I agree with this report that there is a clear need for comprehensive support. I also note the fact of having a prior evaluation carried out by specialised centres, but also the need for special reimbursements, particularly with regard to revalidation. I had pleaded for this on many occasions. Could we take stock of the implementation of the resolution we voted in the House? What about the different types of reimbursement, especially in relation to the accumulation of user tickets for patients with long covid? What about the implementation of the recommendations of the KCE study? What, in terms of revalidation, better care for the care of kine? You know that reimbursements for patients remain a weak point in their care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u4	Colleagues, I will take a little longer, because it is important to point out my question. Minister, I am shocked by the figures in the report by the Federal Knowledge Centre yesterday, which everyone was waiting for. Not one in ten, but one in seven Belgians involved with COVID-19, has long COVID-19 and still suffers from symptoms six months later. The impact on these patients' lives is very large, both emotionally, mentally and physically as well as financially. The report underlines the importance of taking control of the problem. In its recommendations, the KCE advocates a multidisciplinary approach with a consultation starting with primary care. The GP can consult with specialists such as physicists or neurologists to address a wide range of symptoms, evaluate the care provided and develop a care pathway. At the beginning of October 2021, the World Health Council first provided an official definition of long COOVID-19 with a list of symptoms. This is, of course, important for the recognition of both the disease and the patients. IDEWE, an external service for prevention and protection at work, has already called on employers to recognise long-term COVID-19 as a sick image, because many employers still show too much incomprehension towards patients, who sometimes cannot cope with the workload or rhythm due to long-term complaints. In its study published yesterday, the KCE confirms that many patients indicate that reintegration at work is not always successful and that there is still a lot of misunderstanding. Reference has already been made to the resolution adopted by the Health Committee in Parliament on 16 March 2021, inter alia, by examining how costs can be included in the maximum bill as well as to make rehabilitation programmes and physical therapy more accessible. As an interim solution, the KCE recommends paying back certain rehabilitation care pending more knowledge of the treatments that work. Minister, what measures have you taken in the meantime? What measures, questions or requests in the resolution do you wish to comply with and which are not? What concrete additional steps will you take after the publication of the report? Will you work on the reimbursement of multidisciplinary rehabilitation and the recognition of corona as an occupational disease? This is an important issue for everyone, including the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the problem of long covid, which is very serious for many individuals, is very important. We are trying to make progress on the basis of scientific data from ongoing scientific research. I'm afraid that takes time. The study announced by the Centre of Knowledge is very important and still gives a lot of clues, in addition to the resolution adopted by Parliament. I apologize for my somewhat detailed explanation, but I would like to give a rather complete answer, in which I deal with all the questions, overflow the resolution and also take into account what is to be found in the study of the KCE on new insights and recommendations. There's a lot of scientific research going on. That is good news, but that is also frustrating, because we are still waiting for some results. I'll give you some elements. The Evidence-based Practice (EBP) network launched a call for the development of a directive on the follow-up and rehabilitation of COVID-19 patients in the first-line health sector. Following the launch of the call, that contract was awarded to KU Leuven, which is working with the partners of the EBP network to arrive at very concrete guidelines on long covid for first-line care providers. The KU Leuven and those partners have already held a first delphironde to determine the clinical questions. It started last summer. The report will be delivered in the summer of 2022. Unfortunately, that is still seven months' delay, but it is important that we have good guidelines for the follow-up and rehabilitation of COVID-19 patients for first-line care providers. The KCE has very recently published the report on the needs and follow-up of patients with long-term covid, which we were waiting for. In addition, the center gives us a good overview of what can already be found in international literature. It realizes that it is not a finite process, but that we will be gathering a great deal of additional information in the coming years. The Centre's research also looked at the needs of the patients themselves through a questionnaire and in-depth interviews. The study concludes that lung covid is really an important challenge for health and public health, adding that we need even more insight into the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of various possible treatment interventions in relation to lung covid. In addition, last week the board of directors of the KCE approved three trials on the treatment of long covid, including rehabilitation programs. The necessary administrative steps are now being taken and will be launched later this year. I'll give you the names of the three trials, because that was important to Mrs. Fonck. First, the immediate and long-term improvement of cognitive functions and quality of life following application of cognitive versus emotion management psycho-educational programs, second, nutrition and locomotor rehabilitation in lung covid, third, change in functional exercise tolerance after lung covid rehabilitation in the first line. Sciensano also contributes to the follow-up of lung covid with the COV impact study, the mapping of the characteristics of lung covid and the physical, mental and social consequences. That is an answer to Mr Creyelman's question about the collection of statistical data. Another project by Sciensano, which is broader than just long covid, but which will also provide indicators on long covid, is the HELICON project 'Unraveling the long-term and indirect health impact of the COOVID-19 crisis in Belgium'. Many of the issues in the Chamber's resolution are therefore included in these investigations; we are not yet setting a deadline. The knowledge is in full development and, frankly, the development of knowledge may take a few years before we map everything well and have investigated it. What is important in the search for efficient treatments is that patients and patient organisations themselves are involved. From the beginning they play an important role in our policy as a real actor in the theme. They also participate from the outset in the questioning of research, the evaluation of project proposals and the guidance of the various projects. What I also thought was important in the resolution was the sensitisation of healthcare professionals. In agreement with the KCE, the study results will soon be notified to the Belgian doctors, for example by publication in scientific journals such as Magazine for Medicine and Revue de la Médecine Générale. The doctors will be informed by Domus Medica, the Collège de médecine générale and the SSMG. We will ask them to present the necessary material through their websites in an accessible way, possibly also through interviews and the like. It is important that what we collect from scientific research flows quickly and in an accessible way to the care providers, including the doctors themselves. So we are going to use different instruments and also consult with Domus Medica, the Collège de médecine générale and the SSMG. As far as the definition of long covid is concerned, I have to say that definition development is still going on internationally. The report of our Belgian knowledge centre assumes the following definition: long-term covid includes, according to the most common definitions, the complaints of persons who continue to suffer from symptoms or develop new symptoms after the acute phase of COVID-19, determined on the basis of suspicion, clinical symptoms or a test, which cannot be explained by another pathology, such as post-intensive care syndrome. We know, of course, that people who come out of intensive care often carry certain problems as a result. On 6 October this year, the World Health Organisation published a new definition for people confronted with long-term effects of a COOVID-19 infection. You will find that definition on their website. Long-term symptoms occur in individuals with a history of probable or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, usually three months after the start of COVID-19, with symptoms lasting for at least two months and which cannot be explained by an alternative diagnosis, the WHO said. Common symptoms include tiredness, shortness of breath and cognitive but also other disturbances that generally affect daily functioning. The symptoms may be new, after the initial recovery of an acute covidepisode or persistent after the initial disease. Symptoms may also fluctuate or relapse over time. So far, the definition of long covid. There are many questions about the possible support or treatment, also a very concrete question regarding kinesitherapy. It is of paramount importance to ensure the necessary follow-up and support for patients who are confronted with the long-term effects of covid-19 infection and to identify, on the basis of scientific evidence, the needs that are not currently covered by compulsory health insurance to adapt the regulations where necessary. It is also important to preserve patients from all kinds of treatments for which there is no scientific evidence, but also from treatments that exist today but are not sufficiently adapted. In its report, the KCE describes which treatments are already being reimbursed today and in which cases adjustments should be made. I refer, among other things, to Mrs Fonck's very specific question about the maximum amount to be billed, which allows a household not to pay medical expenses beyond a certain threshold defined on the basis of income. By default, this threshold is based on income two years earlier, but where there is a significant decrease in these incomes, as may occur in patients with long covid, the recipient may request that another base year be used to benefit from a lower threshold. But the process is too long and, in order to be able to intervene more quickly, a formal working group has been set up. It brings together mutualities, patient organizations, universities, the Evidence-Based Practice Network (EBP), KCE, Fedris and scientific associations of general practitioners. This working group allows close cooperation on the latest scientific knowledge and treatments, as well as on patient supervision, such as access to adequate care and reimbursement through health insurance. This way of working allows to quickly discuss all information, ideas and needs with patients as full partners around the table and translate them into actions. Another important element is that we actively share this information with caregivers because, for them too, long covid is a new condition that they do not always recognize easily or for which they do not immediately know what the appropriate treatment is. This is why we are working with INAMI to develop a long covid care path with a screening tool to help care providers recognize long covid – a long covid patient is not the other – and to provide the appropriate care more quickly in the first and second lines. This journey must be an obstacle-free journey. We create this journey of care to save time. The EBP will provide a comprehensive scientific recommendation at a later stage. Its surplus value will be enormous, I think. But this process takes time and we do not want to wait to provide care. The path of care, and therefore the care that a patient with long covid needs, is also directly linked to appropriate funding and reimbursements. If there are gaps in the reimbursement for patients, we deal with it immediately with INAMI and make the necessary changes to ensure that all needs are met. This holistic approach is very important. The KCE recommendations were therefore discussed with INAMI. In view of the high prevalence and very large differences in severity of persistent symptoms, the working group chose to start from the first line, unlike the KCE from hospitals and specialist centres. The INAMI working group is developing a screening tool to identify all symptoms, so take stock, after which the different treatment options are discussed jointly with the patient. The working group has already met several times. The aim is for INAMI to continue the development of this care route, including the screening tool, by the end of November. If necessary, specialists can be used to develop this first-line care path in order to be able to draw up an interdisciplinary holistic assessment. The need for reimbursement for physiotherapy, for example, will also be examined as part of this journey of care. Patient organizations have requested reimbursement for 60 physiotherapy sessions for those who have been infected but have not been hospitalized. This request will be included in the balance sheet and the path of care, as not all post-covid patients need a long-term physiotherapy program. INAMI will also create a specific web page for both the patient and the care provider so that information on the status and route of care is available. Finally, there is the problem of occupational disease. When the professional character of the disease is recognized, Fedris takes care of the various damage. As far as periods of temporary incapacity for work and health care are concerned, they can be cared for without limitation, as long as the victim provides evidence of medical evidence to objectify the symptoms mentioned and to attach them to the covid-19 recognized as an occupational disease. It is therefore important for the victim to send Fedris all medical reports relating to the follow-up examinations she is undergoing, as well as the certificates of prolongation of incapacity for work. These elements will be appreciated by Fedris physicians and, if the link is established with covid-19, periods of incapacity for work and health care will be taken care of. So far, my answers to the questions asked on this important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed and clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I have noted that your services collect a lot of statistical data. Measuring is knowing. This is important if we want to do good work in order to carry out the requests in the resolution. I am pleased that you are using a rather broad definition, because that too will be necessary. Last Saturday, I met a representative of a group of lung covid patients. By the way, the man in question was also a lung covid patient. I learned from that conversation that people feel left to their fate. One of the things I've been remembering is that they don't really know where they're going. They experience a total lack of communication and feel that they have to figure everything out for themselves. In this context, I would like to ask you to pay the necessary attention to communication. People must have a central point of contact so that they know what their rights are. I would ask you, in addition to all the study work and the work you are doing, not to forget communication. That can only help to clarify things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u8	Minister, it has been a very long time since I highlighted the importance for the patients concerned and for public health of having a very fast, special approach. I hear that the KUL study is scheduled for the summer of 2022, the long covid care journey is scheduled for the end of November, you say - I expect to know when exactly for patients - a working group on the MAF is planned again... This is a major issue to be addressed as a matter of urgency. I urge you to put in place an immediate plan for patients, which will have to evolve over time and with the new data, on financial accessibility. When you talk about the request to take into account another reference year, it is theoretically valid. But the majority of patients don't know. When you start the procedure, you never know how it will end. It takes a lot of time. Thus, today, patients cannot benefit from it. Accessibility of care is also multidisciplinary. With regard to treatment with kinesitherapy, I have explained to you on several occasions how the caregivers have argued for long-term treatment of revalidation with kinesitherapy for patients, with a greater number of sessions reimbursed for patients without the patients having to justify them and sometimes find themselves blocked. This is not only a request for patients who have been hospitalized in intensive care, but also for patients who have been hospitalized but not in intensive care and non-hospitalized patients who have suffered a long covid-19 without necessarily showing a serious symptomatology at the outset. There are many cases. It's substantiated and obvious. These patients should also be able to benefit from long-term revalidation therapy. Besides, you're not talking about children. There is an urgent need for immediate care, including revalidation, for children. This is vital for the patients concerned at the personal level, but it is also vital in the field of public health to avoid complications that would last longer and to allow many patients to resume their activities more quickly. I sometimes see large detailed plans for the re-employment of long-term patients. The immediate treatment of revalidation and work after pathologies such as this will allow us, tomorrow, to deploy much more effort. These patients are also seeking care to be able to resume their professional activities. These ongoing studies are positive, but they must lead to an immediate plan. We've already lost too much time for these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u9	Minister, I have a reply in the same way as Mrs Fonck. I urge that the recommendations of the KCE be put to work in the short term. There must of course be studies so that knowledge can be acquired. However, patients have been waiting a long time for concrete measures. I understand that you are now working on this and that it is being set in motion. I would like to stress once again that it really must be done in the short term. I did not find the part of your answer on the reimbursement of 60 turns at the physicist very clear. You have said that this is not necessary for everyone, which will indeed be the case, but it is not clear to me whether these kinesi treatments will only be granted to patients who have been hospitalised or whether they will apply to other patients. How this will be done and who will decide on it are all very important questions for patients, which need to be taken to heart. I have remained a little hungry with my question about recognition as an occupational disease. You have repeated that this recognition is possible and works, but not for the self-employed. For the self-employed there is a problem with the reimbursement of care and medication, unless you can specify more precisely, because I may not be well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u10	Mr Warmoes, you are talking about the self-employed, but if you ask a question about occupational disease, of course I am thinking about workers. The regime of occupational disease exists for workers, not for self-employed persons. Unfortunately, perhaps, but that's not historically built up like that. It can be considered, but I do not see an immediate solution to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u11	Minister, this does not prevent measures on reimbursement for self-employed workers. Perhaps you should be a little creative in that. Self-employed people were also affected or affected by this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u12	Is anyone asking for the floor in this topical debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u13	Mr. Chair, Minister, a few days ago, the KCE released a report on the rate of vaccination in hospitals as well as in MR and MRS. You were able to get to know it, just like we did. The overall report indicated a higher vaccination rate in hospitals than in NR and MRS with a rate of almost 90% in the hospital sector, but also a different vaccination rate in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. More alarming is the lower vaccination rate in the 18-34 and 35-44 age groups. You said that the directorates of the various institutions had to carry out an awareness-raising role. Can good practices be highlighted in this context? Are you considering hospital support to keep health care staff aware of the importance of being vaccinated? Moreover, as we know and you keep saying, vaccination is a real challenge to get out of this covid crisis. I share your sentiment and am also in favour of mandatory vaccination for caregivers. To this end, you indicated waiting for five opinions? Who are you waiting for them from? Since then, have you received these notices? You also indicated that you had started working with the social partners. Who are the social partners around the table? What views have they already expressed regarding your willingness to use compulsory vaccination with health care workers? If vaccination is made compulsory for health care workers tomorrow, what will be the consequences of a refusal of vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u14	Mrs Depoorter is excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u15	Mr. President, Minister, the KCE published an analysis of the immunization coverage of hospital staff and nursing and nursing homes against covid-19 last September. I will ask my specific questions directly. You had already announced, some time ago, an obligation to publish, centre by centre, hospital by hospital, data on the vaccination coverage of personnel for each care facility? Unless I'm mistaken, I haven't seen this kind of publication anywhere. Didn't you give directions? Did you give it? If so, why are they not being implemented? Who should enforce this decision? What about polyclinics? What about the first line of care? Are you going to take any further concrete steps to convince unvaccinated caregivers? That seems necessary to me. I note that many of these are not antivax but the victims of gurus who communicate a lot, especially via social networks, with a lot of manipulation of information. I also see that in the face of these gurus who misinformed - and the misinformation about covid-19 and the vaccine, it kills! - there's no counter-attack, no counter-fire from the authorities. I and others, we try to counter each other. But a much more comprehensive strategy and much more individual work is needed, not necessarily by management, in the care structures. Take 15 or 20 minutes to talk to someone who has doubts, it convinces. But all this takes time. In addition, as part of the discussions on compulsory vaccination, you have announced a deadline for the end of the year. It's almost November. I hear that employers have taken a position in favour of this, but there is a refusal by the unions. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the ongoing discussions, on each other's positions, and confirm that the government will succeed in what it has long announced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u16	Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u17	Minister, last Thursday I asked you a number of questions in Question Time in plenary. One of the questions was whether you would provide for a legal framework to enable people who work in care, but who are not vaccinated, to sanction and discharge. You did not answer that, but I have no doubt that this was due to the pressure of time. That is why I am asking you that question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u18	This is a topical debate. Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government has commissioned a study from the Federal Centre of Health Care Expertise (KCE) to determine the rate of vaccination of employees in each health care facility. The KCE measure provides an overview of immunization coverage in all Belgian healthcare facilities employing more than 20 people. The KCE approach makes it possible to estimate by pseudonymized care facility, all occupational categories, but it does not allow the distinction between caregivers and non-carers. Furthermore, the analysis is limited to salaried staff, which excludes, in particular, caregivers working with independent status, such as doctors working in non-university hospitals, who are generally self-employed. The KCE is not in a position to identify the institutions in a nominal way. The publication of this study took place on Wednesday, September 29, 2021 and the analyses stem directly from the first crossover of the ONSS DmfA databases on the one hand and Vaccinnet+ on the other. This analysis is complementary to that of the federated entities for a selection of institutions that have participated on a voluntary basis at that level. Following the publication of the KCE, the Vlaams Instituut voor Kwaliteit van Zorg (VIKZ) published its first results on more than 500 voluntary Flemish care facilities to participate in this evaluation on www.zorgkwaliteit.be. On the Walloon and Brussels side, the Platform for Continuous Improvement of Quality of Care and Patient Safety (PAQS) was designated to provide the same analysis as VIKZ. However, in early September, the SAQP Board of Directors did not support the involvement of SAQP in this evaluation. While all summer had been used to develop the methodology for measuring this quality indicator to inform and raise awareness of health care facilities in Flanders and to collect their intentions to participate in this measure, no similar approach could be taken in parallel for Walloon and Brussels institutions. I'm sorry. The AViQ and COCOM therefore took over the torch and sent the request to their data protection officer. While each federated entity has obtained access to data from care facilities, there is still no consensus on the publication of vaccine coverage results from care facilities on a voluntary basis. Nevertheless, data on immunization coverage per health facility based on ONSS DmfA data – without distinction between caregivers and non-custodial workers only – have been made available for publication. It should be noted that the Government has developed a system for any occupational physician to become aware of the vaccination coverage of companies with at least 50 workers, including health facilities. The aim is to further encourage workers to be vaccinated in companies where the vaccination coverage of workers is low. Knowledge of the vaccination rate also allows occupational physicians to apply prevention measures in the company in case of an outbreak of Covid-19 infection. The conditions for the dissemination of this information have been laid down by the social partners of the Higher Council for Labour Prevention and Protection. These conditions are as follows. First, approved and anonymized data on immunization coverage are provided via an existing specific module ("community tool") and made available to the occupational physician of the assigned internal or external prevention department of the company. Secondly, for companies with a proportion of workers vaccinated between 20 and 95 %, the exact percentages are reported. Third, the percentages are reported only for enterprises with 50 or more workers. Fourthly, the objective of the communication of vaccine coverage is to raise awareness among companies with low immunization coverage as a matter of priority in order to try to convince non-vaccinated workers to be vaccinated. Fifthly, on the simple request of the employer, the occupational doctor informs him of the rate of vaccination in the company. If, after the awareness within a company, some workers wish to be vaccinated, the practical organisation of this vaccination must be carried out in consultation with the federated entity where the company is located. Beyond these communication and awareness-raising measures, a bill requiring vaccination against Covid-19 for all health care professionals working for an employer or self-employed person is in preparation. I'll go back. For the questions put in particular by Mr Rigot on surplus value and what the KCE has published, this shows quite a lot of disparities within the three regions. Even in Flanders, where the average is higher, there are a few establishments with a rather limited vaccination rate. In Wallonia and Brussels, the KCE study shows that dispersion is important. In my view, this shows that there is still a role played and to be played by the directorates of health care facilities. I have always found it a little easy in the head of the directorates to tell the minister that it is simply necessary to impose vaccination by legal means! It doesn't hold up the road. Directorates and occupational physicians can and must play a role in each institution. It is therefore a little short of saying that the branches of care facilities can't do anything and are unable to change things and that the minister has to do the job. Nevertheless, I do my duty and I will propose legislation. There are now opinions. These include the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions, which includes representatives of hospitals, as well as doctors, nurses, insurers and patients. This opinion was delivered on 29 September and the members of the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions unanimously support compulsory vaccination in the care sector. Health care professionals, independent practitioners or under contract of employment and, by extension, all employees in healthcare organisations regardless of their specific functions – whether in direct contact or not – should be subject to the obligation of vaccination. The Council also wants sanctions to be introduced and I quote: 'The possibility of dismissal or suspension of cooperation without pay should be considered, after which cooperation may be terminated without compensation'. I analyse this opinion as I do for the other opinions given, such as that of the National Labour Council (NTC) which has dealt with the issue. The NTC was divided on the problem of sanctions, with trade unions and employers on two different benches. Opinions were also issued by the Higher Council for Health (SSC), the Higher Council for Well-Being and Prevention at Work and the National Council of the Order of Physicians. I will develop them in detail. These opinions are important. Personally, I think we need to legislate, which means making vaccination compulsory by legal means for all healthcare providers. If it becomes mandatory, a transition phase may be planned, but ultimately, a non-vaccinated care provider will no longer be able to practise his or her profession. That's the conclusion. Mr. Creyelman, you insist! I cannot, however, now comment on how to translate this into legislation: there is the question of sanctions, of possible dismissals. It seems clear to me that after a period of transition, non-vaccinated care providers can no longer be tolerated in care institutions, nursing homes (RHAs) and nursing homes (RHAs). The transition phase cannot last indefinitely. At the federal level, I need to introduce new legislation, a new basis for legislation. It will have to focus on both outpatient and institutional care providers, both employees and self-employed. I have called on the authorities of the Communities to use the legislative frameworks at their disposal in order to provide for a regulation or legislation which would also concern non-care workers in healthcare establishments (technical, administrative, etc.). There is no basis or anchor at the federal level to legislate on a vaccination obligation for these non-carers. In fact, until very recently, the Community authorities have told me that they will not take any initiative in this direction, which I believe would be possible. A few days ago, I was delighted to learn that the Flemish government had changed its mind. That's good! He said he wanted to add something and want to look at the possibility of legislation that would make vaccination compulsory for non-care workers in institutions, which I cannot do. I therefore hope that there will be a complementary approach to the Flemish government at least. I may also hope that the other Communities will do so. Anyway, I'm not gonna wait. I want to make progress for the nursing staff. I therefore hope, Mrs Fonck, Mr Rigot, Mrs Rohonyi, that I will be able to propose a bill as soon as possible, but I obviously need the advice of the Council of State, for example. If possible, I hope to be able to legislate before Christmas, if not as soon as possible after Christmas, with a period of transition doubtless. I can't imagine that in the summer there are still unvaccinated acute care providers. Actually, I can't imagine it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer as always clear and detailed, with an analysis of the KCE report and an overview of your bill on immunization of health care workers. To return to the KCE report, I obviously agree with you on the awareness-raising role to be played by the Directorates of Institutions. They must do so because there is no vaccination obligation today, and there is a need for everyone to show solidarity. As for the vaccination obligation of health-care workers, I note that this measure will apply to all health-care workers, whether they are self-employed or wage-earners. No distinction will be made since this measure will apply to all caregivers who work in the hospital network or in nursing homes. This is essential because it is up to them to ensure the protection of all those, patients or residents, who are staying in these institutions. There's a state of necessity. The opposite would undoubtedly be a matter of non-assistance to persons in danger. We have to replace the lack of will. That is not shocking. Security officers are asked to have an aggregation of the Ministry of the Interior. Heavy-duty drivers are asked to go through a medical selection. In both cases, as in so many others, the aim is to demonstrate its competence, but also to guarantee the safety of third parties. For drivers of heavy goods vehicles, the medical selection provides a guarantee that they are able to drive their vehicles and therefore not to put themselves in danger or to endanger others. The measure you are going to implement is therefore proportionate to the objective of saving lives and avoiding a new wave. I hope that there will also be some progress in terms of non-caregiving personnel, since the aim is to protect lives and finally to get out of this crisis of the covid. But, as you said, it's not up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u21	Mrs Depoorter, you have not been able to ask your question, but you can replicate if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u22	Mr President, I shall first read the Minister's answer, because I have not heard it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u23	Mrs. Depoorter, you asked about the booster vaccine for the care staff. I hope to receive the opinion of the High Health Council on this Friday and there will be a meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health at 9 a.m. on Saturday morning. We will continue the debate on the testing strategy, including in education, but we will also discuss the opinion of the High Health Council, which I hope will then have received. I hope that on Saturday morning we will be able to make decisions on the third injection for the care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u24	Thank you, Minister. I said last time that there was great concern, so it is essential that this be worked out so that the care providers in the fourth wave are protected. I look forward to the concrete impact on Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u25	Minister, I hear the status of discussions and proceedings and the coming of the bill. It is frightening to see that even on such a subject, after the major declarations by the nine health ministers – including those of the federated entities – some Communities would block the vaccination obligation of non-care workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u26	Mrs. Fonck, excuse me for interrupting. It is not that they block; they requested that the federal government take legislative initiatives. I regret this because I cannot legislate on non-care workers in care facilities. I didn't say they were blocking. I said that they had announced that they would not want to take initiatives at their level, which I regret a little but I do not delay. The Flemish Government has changed its mind on this matter. I don't want to denounce a blockage. That's not what I said. This may be a lack of complementary legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u27	Minister, thank you for that clarification. However, I must conclude that, after each other's statements, another diplomatic way of saying that we block a file or that we don't want to move forward or that we don't want to take responsibility is to send the hot potato back to another level of power. This ping-pong game has mined us – I weigh my words – since the beginning of the crisis management of the covid; it is the famous Killing factor that Professor Erika Vlieghe rightly reminds us. In this case, we are experiencing exactly the same thing. I hope that the Communities concerned will come to a halt. I hear the Flemish government has changed its mind. I hope the others will do the same. That being said, minister, the bill is scheduled for Christmas or just after. Then there will be the transition period, etc. I think in the meantime, we can't just stand by. It seems to me important, first of all, to continue the work of conviction. We want to send the potato back to the branches of the institutions. However, they are not the most likely to convince staff in the hierarchy relationship. There was talk of doctors at work. They are under pressure; it is known that there may be thousands of people in an institution and that many consultations have had to be left out. Is this not a synergistic effort to allow for a different work of conviction? I repeat how the general practitioner can, in this respect, convince and dispel doubts. Then, what are we going to do with the caregivers who contracted covid-19, who therefore have immunity, antibodies? Do you intend to impose the vaccine on them? These caregivers are, I think, open to the idea of a vaccine injection, but not necessarily two injections. The scientific literature shows that an injection for patients who have developed covid disease makes it extremely important to boost their protection. I believe that it is necessary to take into account the situation of these caregivers, who have been heavily affected by covid-19, with a much higher percentage than in the general population. This should be taken into account and the proposal for a single dose should be made for these caregivers. They will then be more receptive to the idea of being vaccinated. In doing so, we will be able, Mr.Minister, to gain additional support for immunization in health care institutions for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u28	Minister, thank you for your response and determination. I listened to you again yesterday after the conciliation committee. You are constantly calling, in a very legitimate way, the population that has not yet been vaccinated to do so. But I am concerned about the perception of this message if the people who are supposed to treat them are not themselves vaccinated. I hear your bill is in preparation. However, I remain concerned because it is imperative that this bill be ready before the winter, before the expected peak of contamination and hospitalizations. We are still talking about a decision that was taken at the conclusion of the Consultation Committee on 20 August, now more than two months ago. I am also concerned about the blockages that come from some federated entities. This immunisation obligation of health-care workers must be the same throughout the country. We have seen how counterproductive it is to have different decisions from one Region to another. That is why yesterday's Concertation Committee had to go back. I recognize that your task is not easy, in particular because trade unions and employers do not agree with each other, among other things, on the scope of this obligation. But common sense must prevail. From the moment when the nursing staff but also the cleaning, catering, administrative, etc. staff. breathing the same air, it goes without saying that all personnel must be able to be vaccinated. It is also the solution chosen in France and that which appears from the KCE study, which makes it impossible to distinguish the vaccination rate according to the specific function of the workers concerned. Similarly, as you have said, the opinions you have received so far are unanimous on the need to make this vaccination compulsory, regardless of the specific function. You tell us that the project is still not ready today because you are waiting for the advice of the Council of State. For this to happen, your text must first be ready! In any case, I mean that you retain the solution of a transitional period. In my view, it is essential, even if you do not specify the duration of this period. A period of two months would allow us not to have to choose between obligation and awareness. Both can be done very well, the aim being, during this transitional period, to ensure that the sanctions provided for are not applied. The extent to which this sector is facing a major labour shortage is known today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u29	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I can actually repeat most of my reply from last Thursday. There are already too few hands in care. We will now take further initiatives, which will reduce the number of hands in the care sector. We therefore find ourselves in a situation in which the pressure on care will only increase. That's the famous vicious circle I've been talking about before. I cannot applaud the people one day and call them the corona heroes of the pandemic, and then de facto ban them the other day. We must remember that in the first phase of the pandemic they kept the country virtually unprotected. For me, although I am not an anti-vaxer but even a great supporter of vaccination, and for my party, firing people in care who have not been vaccinated is unacceptable. I understand that discharge from care for non-vaccination is due to arrive in due course, whether after a transition period or not. However, as we all know, vaccination is not compulsory. Would we not therefore be better placed to test staff, especially now that, for example, very fast tests are coming? I am thinking, for example, of the breath test for COVID-19, which is in the pipeline. I'm also thinking about the super-fast PCR test coming up and so much more. Mr Minister, testing together with even more and better information and communication, if necessary on an individual basis, is the solution, especially now, as I indicated, that there are high-speed tests coming. Finally, the only waterproof guarantee is that, so to speak, a person is being tested at the entrance of a care facility or any building to determine whether or not someone is infected. That is a better solution in the long term than firing people because they have not been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u30	Minister, cardiac arrhythmias can be a primary cause of syncope according to the guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology. Rhythm problems often occur acutely. It is certainly necessary to deal with this quickly and in a timely manner. Patients should respond alertly. Patients who have already experienced this are therefore inclined to go quickly to the emergency department. That is where one is able to immediately map the nature of the disorder with an EKG and, if necessary, with an ultrasound. There is also a rich therapeutic arsenal, from medication to cardioreversion and invasive electrophysiological treatment. For this, the type must first be determined: bradycardia or tachycardia such as atrial fibrillation, flutter, IART or bosom flutters or dangerous forms of ventricular tachycardia. The fee for the first reception in the emergency room shall be EUR 44.05. Of this, the patient pays 21.65 euros himself. Under a preferential scheme he pays 12.03 euros. If the patient has a letter of referral from the general practitioner, the brake fee is 4,82 euros and 1.78 euros respectively, of course after the health insurance has already been provided for the general practitioner consultation. In view of the fact that these people usually go to the emergency and cannot immediately contact a general practitioner because the general practitioners are overburdened, is it my question whether you agree that patients who register with cardiac arrhythmias in the emergency without a referral from the general practitioner should also receive the increased reimbursement? Will it be possible in the future to help patients quickly identify cardiac arrhythmias via smartphone applications? There is a great deal of progress in this area. In this way the referral by the general practitioner is no longer necessary. How many patients report to the emergency service without a referral from the GP? I think there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u31	Minister, my question is in line with Mrs De Block's question, especially with regard to the last part of it. I would like to know what is the relationship between patients with cardiac arrhythmias who report directly to the emergency room and those who first consult with the general practitioner. Is there a difference by region there? You know from research that people in Wallonia go faster to the emergency and to the general practitioner in Flanders. Is this trend continuing in this area too? If the diagnosis is made at the emergency, what is the vision of your cabinet? Are you in favour of possibly aligning the fees with those of patients who first went to the general practitioner?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u32	Dear Members, in 2019 there were 36,956 recordings in which cardioreversion or invasive surgery was attested. Of these, 4.908 followed immediately after a visit to the emergency department. Of these 4,908 there were 3,259 with a referral from the general practitioner, or 66 %. During the 36,956 recordings, 46,403 cardioreversions or invasive procedures were attested. It makes no sense for me to read the table, but she is interesting because she goes into more detail about cardioreversions or electrophysiological treatments. This includes, among other things, the relevant nomenclature numbers. I propose that I hand the table to the secretariat that it can be delivered to you both and to the whole committee. These are figures from the last three years available. I come to the second question. There is indeed a difference in the intervention of compulsory sickness insurance when a patient applies to the emergency service with or without a referral from the general practitioner. This regulation is intended as a financial incentive to consult the general practitioner first and thus relieve the emergency services of pathologies that can be addressed by the general practitioner. There are indeed a number of cases, such as some cardiac arrhythmias, where one should go straight to the emergency and therefore not be able to enjoy this financial benefit. You could say that, in that sense, the regulation is not perfect, but the classification of medical provision is public policy and we must maintain it strictly. The rules for the provision and application of the nomenclature have been established in consultation with the representative medical representatives. I believe that this is an important basis of scientific background and support. Exceptions can only be introduced by changing the nomenclature, but an application can always be submitted to the Technical Medical Board of the RIZIV. As regards the third question, there is currently a KCE study on telemonitoring in cardiology. This study will be completed by the end of October. Within the RIZIV, further work will then be undertaken on the integration of the use of telemonitoring, including applications in cardiac care, on the basis of these recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the table that will provide even more insight. I do know some of the nomenclature and the way in which the RIZIV and the Technical Medical Council should deal with it, but it is indeed good to look at the KCE study first and see whether we cannot help in any other way faster and adequately, without the patient paying much more for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I do not think that the regional division was in your answer. Is it intertwined in the tables?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u35	No, the regional breakdown is not in the tables. You will therefore have to ask me a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u36	I will. However, I share your view that it is important that the general practitioner remains the gatekeeper of the entire patient's health care. Perhaps we should find a solution to meet the patient. In practice, it often happens that a letter follows after a telephone reference. If one has to go to the emergency department more quickly on the advice of his GP, it is obviously not the intention that the patient should pay for this. Perhaps we should look at this together with the representatives of the doctors. As far as the KCE study is concerned, we'll get it. As far as regional differences are concerned, I will indeed ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I have put my questions to the Council of State on the complaint made by a number of associations of psychologists. We have already discussed this at a previous committee meeting. What impact will that complaint have? By when will patients be able to effectively go to a psychologist for 11 euros? The complaint also means that there has been some commotion and polarisation among the representatives of the psychologists. To what extent can you implement the agreement today? Can you also guarantee that the agreement is sufficiently supported by the professional associations and thus by the psychologists themselves? One of the bottlenecks in implementing your mental health plan was attracting sufficient psychologists in the first line who want to join the convention. To what extent can you guarantee that psychologists will effectively enter the convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, as far as the role of professional associations is concerned, I can say the following. We have set up a transversal agreement committee in which all involved partners are represented, including the mutualities, umbrella organisations, representatives of experience experts, network coordinators, general practitioners, psychiatrists, clinical orthopedagogues and clinical psychologists. Clinical psychologists were represented by the Flemish Association of Clinical Psychologists (VVKP) and the Union Professional des Psychologists Cliniciens Francophones (UPPCF). Based on data on visas and recognitions for clinical psychology, there are 11,781 clinical psychologists and 1,413 clinical orthopedagogues in Belgium. In addition, 2.237 have already received a visa for clinical psychology, but are still awaiting their recognition. That figure is 63 for the clinical orthopedagogic eyes. So not all of these individuals are necessarily active in the clinical sector. Based on this data and the member information of the different occupational groups from 2017, we can conclude that the VVKP, together with the UPPCF, represents about 29 percent of all clinical psychologists. In addition, the Union Professional des Psychologues (UPPsy) and the Professional Union of Psychologists (BUPsy) have members in the clinical sector as well as in the research, school, education, business or organization sector. I have some figures from the UPPSy: that is 2.5 % compared to the total number of clinical psychologists, which is a smaller group. Furthermore, there is the Professional Association of Clinical Psychologists for practices that focus on speaking (APPELpsy of KLIpsy). This is 1.70 % of all clinical psychologists, respectively. Finally, there is the Association des Psychologues Praticiens d'Orientation Psychonalytique (APPPsy): 1.28 % of all clinical psychologists. Both the APPLpsy, the KLIpsy, the UPPSy, the BUPsy and the APPPsy have gone to the Council of State. These associations together therefore represent a maximum percentage of 5.48 % of the clinical psychologists in Belgium, which, of course, does not in itself take away anything from their right to go to the Council of State. Moreover, we are listening to the opinion of all the people, we are aware of the debate on functional bilan, respect for shared professional secrecy. I am not going to go into that now, but I think that we have given a very thorough answer in the consultations. You also asked a bit about the state of affairs. Currently, 29 out of 32 mental health networks have signed the convention. By the way, all Flemish networks have signed them. These networks are now trying to get started as quickly as possible, which takes a lot of time. I spent a long time together on Monday afternoon in a working visit with the network of the Kempen for the adults. Yesterday I spent the entire morning together with Diletti, the network for the Leuven-Tervuren arrondissement for children and young people, as a result of their ten-year existence. Those are very interesting meetings. I conclude from that that there is still a lot of work to be done. The instruments are there now. Unfortunately, with delay, an agreement has been reached in the Insurance Committee on the individual model for the individual covenanting of clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogics in their network. That model's been there since October 15th. The clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogic eyes on the site can now come together with that new model. It is also clear what the profile of the network coordinator is, who should help implement everything. Networks can now recruit network coordinators. The billing system will be fully on the table on 10 November. The billing system will be able to be used retroactively from the first day of the month following the month in which the network signed the convention with the RIZIV. A network signed in August will therefore be able to use the new billing mechanism retroactively from 1 September. These things are ready, but of course there is still a lot of work for the networks to investigate and identify the needs of the population they serve, and to determine the priority choices within the budget they receive. Also on the types of interventions to be financed, the models of cooperation that need to be looked at and all based on the needs of the people who want to serve the network. There is still a great deal of work to be done. Let's get that straight. It is important, however, that clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues who are already in the existing convention can continue their work. This means, of course, that there is an important transition period, especially until the end of December. So it's being worked hard. There's a lot of work to be done. I assume that a legal dispute must be resolved legally. That will be done at the level of the Council of State. I do believe that we consulted with the vast majority of clinical psychologists when we had discussions with the VVKP and its French-speaking sister organisation, the UPPCF.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Like you, I do a lot of place calls. I was in a centre in Ghent, where some concern was expressed about preparing the whole plan or drawing up the convention before 1 January 2022. You quote the date of 10 November 2021. That's a few weeks before the start on December 1, 2021. There are also questions about the retroactive effect of the billing. To what extent will the patient be met at that time? So there's still a lot of work to be done. For the legal dispute, concern remains as to how far it will go. You say that everything can be worked out and rolled out. That is also what I was told in the center, namely that they will roll out everything. However, can it or can it not be put on hold by the legal dispute? There is no clear answer to that question, and you do not really give a clear answer to it either. You assume that everything will be able to be rolled out. However, our discussions with lawyers show that they are not so sure yet. I hope you're right. The patients, as has already been said, would have access to the first-line psychologist on 1 December 2021 at a rate of EUR 11, are waiting. They should not have to wait longer than 1 January 2021. There is a great deal of concern about this. You answer that it's about the vast majority of psychologists. I will look at your answer later, but what I hear in percentage terms is not about the vast majority of psychologists. There are still not enough plugged in. A lot of work remains to be done to convince psychologists to join the convention, so that there is enough staff to help patients once everything is rolled out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u40	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u41	Thank you for your answer."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u42	Colleagues, if the possibility of mobile vaccination has existed since May 2021, it has so far been reserved for graffiti, reduced mobility or socially vulnerable and difficult to reach groups that require vaccination in the field. I am thinking, for example, of the homeless, the undocumented, the sex workers, etc. The use of vaccination by a general practitioner in his medical practice was considered at the end of phase 2 of the vaccination in order to reach people who, for whatever reason, do not go to a vaccination centre. Immunization by general practitioners has been effective since July in Brussels and September in Wallonia. Phases 1 and 2, for obvious reasons of efficiency, have favoured large-scale vaccination centres. As early as June 2021, the Task Force began preparing the following phases, namely, Phase 3, the booster-type vaccination that has just been mentioned, and a possible Phase 4, namely, a long-term conventional vaccination campaign integrated into the vaccination scheme of the federated entities. A blueprint has been written for this purpose. In this document, the Task Force recommends that traditional health services be used to the maximum extent possible by ensuring the quality of the pharmaceutical process. Seven vaccine delivery channels have been identified. 1. General medical practice and home nursing facilities. Given the logistical constraints and the packaging of vaccines in multidose vials, the Task Force recommends the use of general medicine and nursing services when they are able to ensure a sufficient volume of administration, corresponding to the conservation requirements of the different types of vaccines. This includes general medicine group practices and home nursing services. 2. The pharmacies. City clinics are also considered and tested as additional vaccination sites. They combine the advantages of proximity, storage and optimal handling of vaccines. However, some of the requirements for storage space and immunization infrastructure will have to be met by the officiators, and in relation to the resulting monitoring time. A mapping of the agencies that could perform this role, by federated entity, will be necessary in this regard. 3. Occupational medicine is a key player in annual influenza vaccination campaigns. Occupational health services are actors indicated to contribute to vaccination against covid-19. 4. School medicine could also contribute to the vaccination of young people, as is already the case for other types of vaccines. As you may have heard during the previous session, I really encourage them to play this role. 5. Mobile vaccination. Home immunization of socially vulnerable and difficult to reach groups that require vaccination in the field (homeless, undocumented, sex workers, etc.). There, mobile vaccination is organized. 6. Communities: places of accommodation and collective care. 7. Hospitals. As was the case in Phase 1B of the vaccination campaign, hospitals could continue to vaccinate their staff as well as long-term hospitalized patients, such as dialysis, oncological, psychiatric, geriatric, etc. Remember that at this stage, vaccines are always distributed in multidose vials and require several pre-injection manipulations: delivery splitting, and dilution for the Comirnaty vaccine. The constraints associated with the distribution and storage of vaccines and the rapid use of a vaccine available make their use complex on a small scale. While some general practitioners are happy to contribute to the vaccination campaign with their patient, feedback from the field shows the difficulties faced by general practitioners in dealing with the heaviness of the process. I am thinking in particular of the short period of validity before and after thawing and after perforation of the vial. These are logistical aspects that make work easier in a hospital, for example, or in a large vaccination centre, than in a general practitioner's office. But of course, they can play their part. Mrs Fonck, I think this is a rather complete overview of the situation. You know that the blueprint to which I referred is a public document.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u43	Minister, I wasn't asking you all this. I know all this. I had a specific question in a specific setting and you drowned the fish without ever answering anything. I asked you what we could do in a direct, precise and concrete way to facilitate the possibility for general practitioners to vaccinate in their practice. They have a checklist with a procedure of ten, eleven super heavy steps either administratively or logistically. They themselves have to go to the vaccination centres, which makes the situation more complex. Proposals have been made by general practitioners to allow pharmacists to deliver vaccine vials directly through their usual distribution network and to deliver these doses to general practitioners. The idea is to act in the current known circle and organizational networks. It's a very specific question that I asked you. You don't answer that. I must therefore conclude that this is all left out. I had another call yesterday from a general practitioner. Minister, you're not listening, but I'm going to tell you! This general practitioner administered the third doses to those over 65 years of age in residence. He ended up at the end of the day with too many doses. He asked COCOM if he could give this third dose, for example to caregivers. It's obvious. We're gonna have to do it. COCOM's refusal! We find ourselves there with authorities who prefer to throw doses rather than administer them while it has been a long time since this green light was expected for the third dose of vaccination in caregivers. This is evident in literature as well as in many countries. In Belgium, we dragged to decide. The message that is given is: "Even though there are doses, you cannot give them even as a third dose for caregivers!" I find that nothing is done to facilitate the administration of the vaccine by general practitioners. From the beginning, they have been largely set aside. Here again, simple things could be done. You do not even respond to it, and in practice, on the ground, the proposals that are made and which go back to the various ministers are set aside. I sincerely regret that. Bet on those who can still remove the doubts of the patients and especially the general practitioners who occupy a key and major position there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Creyelman's 55021316C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u45	Mr President, Minister, Xeljanz (Tofacitinib) is prescribed for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and rheumatoid arthritis, for example, is refunded on prescription and with a certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u46	Xeljanz 5mg x 56 co. Xeljanz Abacus 5mg x 56 co Xeljanz 5mg x 180 co. Xeljanz 5mg x 182 co. Xeljanz 11mg x 28 co. Xeljanz 11mg x 91 co. should be prescribed by a rheumatologist
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u47	Xeljanz 5mg x 112 co. Xeljanz 10mg x 56 co. Xeljanz 10mg x 112 co have NO specific prescriber requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u48	Mrs Depoorter, in recent years, Pfizer has put on the market five different packs of Xeljanz 5 milligrams and two different packs of Xeljanz 10 milligrams and 11 milligrams. Xeljanz is indicated in different indications and the appropriate dosage varies according to the indication. These are also phased treatments, initial treatments and maintenance treatments, all with different doses. In addition, the physician may increase the dose for a limited duration for certain patients who decrease their response to treatment during maintenance treatment. Taking into account the different indications, the dosage dependent on the indication and evolution of the patient during treatment, it was necessary to limit the fee for Xeljanz for certain indications to specific packs, in terms of dosage and pack size. It can thus be guaranteed that this combination of packaging will be used which is most advantageous for health insurance and the patient. By falling back on a combination other than those laid down in the reimbursement arrangements, the cost of health insurance for the patient may be much higher, without any added value for the treatment and for the patient. After checking with the RIZIV, I can confirm that for the Xeljanz speciality, the company itself had already in its application file submitted to the Commission for reimbursement of medicines (CTG) in order to limit the fee to certain packaging according to the indication and treatment phase. In addition, it is important to mention that at the level of the FAGG it is a medicinal product subject to increased vigilance to allow rapid identification of new safety information. Although it requires particular attention from the doctor and pharmacist, which implies a certain workload, it remains essential that treatment with Xeljanz is managed optimally. It's a rather complex treatment. Partly because of the phased treatment, which requires increased vigilance for safety reasons, it is also important to ensure the lowest possible cost for health insurance and the patient. The review and modification procedures of the conditions of reimbursement of certain packages of Xeljanz are ongoing within the CTG. I will draw the attention of the CTG to my desire to simplify, wherever possible, the remuneration condition for the Xeljanz speciality, taking into account the complex context and the appropriate vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, especially for the last part. I think that attention is really necessary. You were talking about reducing the cost of health insurance. In the case of these expensive specialties, we certainly cannot justify half packaging or discarded packaging. This really increases the workload for the pharmacist and the doctor. You also mentioned attention, the medication schedule should be followed very closely. The pharmacist can do that perfectly, without having to be punished if he orders at some point a wrong box that will not be refunded. That's the reality, the doctor could be wrong and prescribe a wrong box. This means that the pharmacist will have to bear the costs himself, especially in the case of a non-standard product. However, I would like to ask you once again, when looking at the reimbursement schedules for such medicines, to remember that the workload for the first line, namely for the doctor, the pharmacist and the specialist, is already very high and that a simple way of prescribing and paying back can only benefit the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u50	Mr Minister, my question concerns the outsourcing of majestic preparations. A letter was sent to the pharmacists that outsourcing could be included in the cooperation agreement. The client remains responsible for verifying the validity of the preparation, labelling and delivery. The subcontractor shall be responsible for the preparation, the choice of packaging, the determination of storage conditions and the shelf life, the quality checks and the quality of the preparation. This was communicated to pharmacists at the beginning of October. It is an amendment by royal decree. Can you give me the reasons for that change? To what extent have you consulted the sector on this? What conditions are attached to this outsourcing? Besides, who's gonna check them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u51	Ms Depoorter, this new arrangement originates from the agreement concluded by the previous Minister of Health with APB and Ophaco on 15 March 2017. That was the so-called multi-annual framework for the patient with the official pharmacists. Mrs De Block's multiannual framework contains the following passages: "The patient is entitled to high-quality majestic preparations." It also says: "The possibility of outsourcing to official pharmacists is hardly applied in practice. Outsourcing and specialisation among official chemists can, however, improve the quality of the majestic preparation. A legal framework for the outsourcing of majestic preparations is therefore being developed to facilitate such specialisation and cooperation. This framework may cover agreements on responsibility, quality requirements, delivery deadlines, etc. It will be monitored whether the official pharmacists make use of these specialization possibilities and whether the quality of majestic preparations significantly improves." Following the signature of this Pact, the FAGG has developed the regulation for the implementation of all of its elements, to the extent that the FAGG is competent, including the outsourcing of majestic preparations to fellow pharmacists, in close cooperation with national professional associations. The aim of the new regulation is to encourage cooperation between local pharmacists, to reduce losses caused by obsolete pharmaceutical raw materials in pharmacies, but initially to improve the quality of the majestic preparations and also to ensure legal certainty under both the contractor and the subcontractor. The FAGG inspectors are authorised to carry out inspections in pharmacies in general. Due to the statutory notification of the entrepreneurial pharmacies, the FAGG is aware of the candidate entrepreneurs. The latter will be subject to checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u52	Minister, what worries me is how we deal with this. I have asked you whether certain conditions have been imposed. Actually, there aren't any. I believe that the outsourcing of majestic preparations is a good thing for preparations that do not occur so often and have to meet certain quality requirements in terms of preparation space and skills. The FAGG has carried out research into the quality of the majestic preparations. These preparations proved to be made very professional and qualitative, but there remains a concern. Will it be a very commercial way of working and will the patient's accessibility still be the same? I mean that a majestic preparation is very often prescribed according to the patient's needs and with a certain urgency. Then it is unfortunate that no conditions were included as to the period within which the magic recipe should be available to the patient. It cannot be that we have to wait two or three days before a majestic preparation is transferred from one location to another. Collaboration between fellow pharmacists is certainly a good thing. But, to what extent will we limit the exploitation of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u53	This question, which dates back to the end of September, was drawn up in response to a remarkable and unusual open letter. More than two hundred leading medical journals, such as The Lancet, New England Journal of Medicine and East African Medical Journal, called on governments in their editorial comments to take action against climate change in order not to "do any more unnecessary damage to public health" at the end of September. I continue to read: "We medical magazine publishers around the world are calling for urgent action to keep global temperatures below 1.5 °C and to stop the destruction of nature and to protect health." This call came in response to the UN General Assembly at the end of September, the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow next week and the biodiversity summit in Kunming later this year. The magazines state that the increase in global temperature is responsible for an increase in dehydration symptoms, skin disorders, tropical infections, mental health problems, pregnancy complications, allergies, cardiovascular problems, lung diseases and mortality. I quote again: "The greatest threat to public health is the continuing failure of world leaders to keep global temperature rises below 1.5°C and to restore nature. Broad societal changes are urgently needed if we are to be a fair and healthy world." Mr Minister, you write in your policy paper in the chapter 'Health in all policies': "Safeguarding the right to a healthy living environment will play an important role in healthcare policy'. The third operational programme of the NEEAP, the National Environmental Health Action Plan, will be finalised. The interaction between health and the environment, in particular at the level of the GICLG (Joint Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment and Health), will address the challenges posed by climate change to our healthcare system in the medium and long term in 2021." Mr Minister, are you aware of the call made by the more than 200 medical journals? What do you think of their joint letter? What measures have you already taken on 'Health in all policies'? What measures do you plan to take to address the challenges of the climate crisis on our healthcare system? Will you speak out as a federal member of the government in favour of a decisive approach by our country to the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u54	I am aware of the initiative, which I think is very good. I also agree with the call. Climate change will have a serious impact on public health and the health system, including in Belgium With the implementation of the National Adaptation Plan 2016-2020, VITO, Möbius and Sciensano conducted a study on the impact of climate change on the health sector in Belgium. In addition, they also identified current climate risks and medium- and long-term risks to the healthcare system. That research report's online. It sets out recommendations for decision-makers as well as for the health sector on heat-related health effects, diseases transmitted by vectors of water or food, allergies and respiratory diseases, mental health, personnel and healthcare infrastructure, crisis and risk management, data and communication, with a particular focus on vulnerable population groups. Those recommendations also provide an input into the preparation of a coherent set of federal adaptation measures, as decided by the Council of Ministers in April 2021 and for the development of a new National Adaptation Plan in the context of the National Climate Commission. Health policy cannot be reduced to a curative or preventive biomedical approach. We really need to look at all the health determinants, including the health of the environment and plants and animals in our country, including food safety. My administration has several initiatives under 'Health in all policies', including in the area of AMR or antimicrobial resistance, health inequalities, prevention and follow-up of infectious diseases, including zoonoses, the national action plan on pesticides, the federal food and health plan, the implementation of the farm-to-fork strategy, as well as initiatives to reduce movements to health authorities, for example via teleconsultations. We will also continue to maintain enhanced cooperation with the Minister for the Environment, with a view to implementing the new Belgian Environmental Health Action Plan, which provides a framework for a coherent and coordinated global approach to environmental health actions at all institutional levels in Belgium. The interaction between health and age care, in particular at GICLG level, will cover, inter alia, the following five elements in 2022. Firstly, the development of non-invasive biomonitoring markers and methods in the areas of air pollution, radioactivity and the use of pesticides and GMOs. Secondly, it concerns the health and environmental consequences of invasive species, in particular the persistence of exotic mosquito controls. Thirdly, there is the implementation of a national action plan on hormone-distorting substances and, fourthly, the review of crisis management in relation to heat waves and ozone peaks in the context of the analysis of all emergency plans, as defined by the government. The fifth element is participation in the European research programmes on the evaluation of the health effects of chemicals, the HBM4EU and the PARC. As a member of the government, of course, I am very much in favour of a decisive approach to the climate crisis and, of course, with my administration, I also follow how we can best implement the European Commission's Green Deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic619x.u55	You think it is a good initiative and share the analysis. You are also working on all the consequences of climate change for the health system, which is your competence. As regards mitigation, that is rather the competence of ministers Khattabi and Van der Straeten, we are lagging behind in Belgium. So I also hope to be able to count on your commitment in the government to make the emission reduction targets more ambitious. Another important element in the call from the magazines, to which I would like to draw attention, is the international climate funding and the support of the countries on the other continents, which are historically much less responsible for emissions, but are now faced with the serious consequences. The main commentators clearly state that the plans for international climate financing are totally inadequate. I hope that the Belgian delegation in Glasgow will be ambitious. We still don't have a national plan, but you're a member of the government. So I'm counting on you to do a motivated job of that.
