ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u1	Mrs de Laveleye is not yet here. Mr Ravyts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u2	Mr President, Minister, according to the RED II directive, the proportion of biofuels in transport in Belgium is also being increased gradually. In 2030, an incorporation rate of 10,45 % real or 13,9 % including double counting would be achieved. In the period 2021 to 2030, a maximum of 7% of first generation biofuels shall be added. The provisions in the National Energy and Climate Plan - NEKP - around the Belgian route even go beyond the route set out in the RED II and are, in my opinion, even a form of gold-plating. In the context of the NEKP, it was agreed that an interfederal study would evaluate the technical feasibility of the incorporation rate every two years in order to possibly modify the incorporation rate. This study was finalised in December 2020 and concluded that the objective for advanced biofuels is technically difficult to achieve. The 1.7 % excluding double counting of used vegetable oils and animal fats is feasible, but biofuels from GM waste, manure or algae would be only 1% by 2030. The study confirms that palm oil and soya oil have a very large environmental impact. The main reason for this is the increasing deforestation. You announced on 13 April 2021 that Belgium will increase the sustainability criteria for biofuels, which means that palm oil and soya can no longer be used as raw materials from mid 2022 and 2023 respectively. This also means that these raw materials will no longer be used by Belgium to meet the 7% target for first generation biofuels. Can you explain more about this policy choice? Will there not now inevitably be a shift to crops which some say are also problematic in terms of environmental impact? In what sense do you aim in your policy to reduce the total volume of biofuels of the first generation of agricultural crops? Are you trying to phase out biofuels based on agricultural crops and, therefore, to change the NEKP? The possible modification of the incorporation rate, a reduction, obviously has an impact on the Regions and can only be carried out as an alternative federal measure. What's your reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u3	Madame de Laveleye, I give you the floor. We started two minutes too early.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 13 April you announced the abolition of soy oil and palm oil in the Belgian agrofuel quota in 2022. This is obviously excellent news, since these two crops are among the most problematic in terms of imported deforestation, biodiversity, climate and food sovereignty. Belgium's objective in the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) is to use agrofuels to cover 7% of our fuel consumption. I note that our choice corresponds to the maximum rate authorised by the European Union. The removal of palm and soy oil from these 7% is already a significant step. Nevertheless, we must expect a shift towards other cultures. As is well known, the use of agricultural soils for energy use competes with food sovereignty and exerts great pressure on exploited soils. As a reminder, in 2018, it took more than 5,000 square kilometres of productive agricultural area to grow the cereals, sugars and vegetable oils used to produce agrofuels sold in Belgium. I would point out that this is a larger area than the provinces of Namur and Walloon Brabant combined. In addition, more than 95% of agrofuels used in Belgium come from abroad. In other words, we are totally dependent on the outside for this resource. You are also announcing that the government will reduce its demand for agrofuels. This is very good news, but it raises the following questions. Minister, to which cultures will Belgian consumption have to turn? Where will they be produced: in Europe or elsewhere? After this very important step, what are the government's prospects for reducing the share of agrofuels in fuels used in Belgium? Is a revision of the 7% quota possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, other colleagues who have already outlined the situation, I will simply add this. The decision you have taken places Belgium at the forefront of a European directive. It is part of the Amsterdam Declaration Partnership, a coalition of European countries fighting deforestation and promoting the sustainable use of palm oil. I understand this decision – especially since I have practiced this matter – but many things don't seem very clear to me yet. Let us take, for example, the statement of Jean-Benoît Schrans, spokesman for the Belgian Petroleum Federation. Mr Schrans said in the press that certain dangers are associated with the acceleration of this decision. There is no doubt, of course, that he sees things through the glasses of his federation. Furthermore, as Mrs de Laveleye mentioned, the environmental movement warns that crops will be used for biodiesel production and that the problem will be moved rather than solved. Minister, why did you decide to speed up this decision? What are the potential dangers of this decision? Have you consulted the sector on this? You know that there is a Belgian biofuel industry which has already had to adapt to this percentage, which will apply until 2030 and which actually conditions its production chain. Finally, what do you think about the warning of the environmental movement on these other crops and the displacement of the problem that your decision puts on these crops?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u6	Madam Minister, last month we heard that you will take an initiative to ban biofuels based on soya and palm oil from the Belgian market from mid 2022 and to ban them completely from 2023. You rightly stressed the counter-productive nature of biofuels for climate and environmental damage as a result of the many land use changes that the cultivation of soya and oil palm entails. However, you do not seem to have taken into account one fact, namely the negative effects of the substitutability of raw materials for first generation biofuel for different sectors and purposes. This first-generation biofuel is produced from food and forage, which creates an important conflict of use with the food sector. If, as you suggested in De Standaard of 14 April, rape is encouraged as a raw material for biofuel to replace soya and palm oil, then the food sector will switch massively to soya and palm oil because of a shortage of available rape oil. As a result, soy and oil palm cultivation and the associated damage to the climate and the environment are only slightly reduced. The argument that the use of raw materials from European soil for biofuel would be better for climate and the environment is therefore not entirely valid. Civil society has indicated this on several occasions and studies by the International Council on Clean Transportation support that. Madam Minister, first of all, why did you choose to ban only soya and palm oil and not all first generation biofuels? Secondly, how do you intend to combat the harmful side effects of your initiative to eliminate soya and palm oil as a raw material for biofuel? Thirdly, where do you intend to go in general with the Belgian biofuels policy in the light of the revision of the NEKP 2021-2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u7	Madam Minister, on 13 April last you issued a royal decree prohibiting, from mid-May 2022, biofuels based on soy and palm oil in transport. By 2023, the ban will target soybeans as a raw material for biofuels for transport. You are following other countries like Denmark, France and the Netherlands. The biofuel from palm oil is indeed the most harmful to the environment and is at the source of deforestation, loss of biodiversity and even violations of human rights, as you have not failed to recall, not to mention the heavy food losses in favour of mobility, which ultimately emits more greenhouse gases than fossil fuels, if one considers its entire life cycle and production. However, as Inter-Environnement Wallonia pointed out, in order to solve the more global problem of the use of biofuels in transport, the total volume of these raw materials in agrofuels should therefore also be reduced. However, the law requires us to incorporate 7% of biodiesel into our fuel, and by 2020 we would have gone up to almost 20%! How do you intend to mitigate the incorporation of soy-based biofuel and palm oil into our fuel? How can we avoid a shift in the problem? Finally, do you intend to review the percentage of biodiesel in our fuel? If so, how high would you set the new percentage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, the royal decision on product standardisation of biofuels, which is expected to be published at the beginning of July of this year, after obtaining the opinion of the various advisory bodies and the Council of State, aims to improve the sustainability of biofuels for transport marketed in Belgium. To this end, in addition to the ban on the consumption of palm and soya oil biofuels in transports from July 2022 and January 2023 respectively, there are many provisions aimed at ensuring the sustainability of transport fuels. For example, compared to the current sustainability framework for biofuels, the present KB adds the category of recycled carbon fuels to the sustainability framework, as well as new sustainability criteria and greenhouse gas emission reduction criteria for biofuels and biogases, and methods for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from biofuels. These criteria are a direct transposition of European legislation into the RED II. With this enhanced sustainability framework and the ban on biofuels for the transport of palm oil and soybeans, I want to ensure that the most harmful biofuels will be banned quickly and thus give a clear signal to the market for the future. In 2020, the use of palm oil in transport increased tenfold in one year to more than 230 million litres. At this rate, we couldn't wait ten years. The oil sector has, of course, been consulted, Mrs Marghem! Past experience has shown that land-use change for these crops has had a dramatic impact on prices and food security in poor countries, as well as on global biodiversity and air pollution. This is a political choice of the past which I cannot defend and which I wish to put an end to as soon as possible. Our policy must fully reflect global responsibility and sustainability. This objective is shared by my colleague, Minister Kitir, who is committed to ensuring coherence between development cooperation policies. As you pointed out, Mrs Hanus, the Netherlands, France and Denmark have already shown the way by limiting the use of the most problematic agrofuels. In accordance with all studies and opinions, all first-generation biofuels will eventually have to disappear. Priority to food! This will be achieved primarily by reducing the number of thermal engines, a goal for which the government has made a firm commitment. My colleague, Minister Van Peteghem, is taking a first important step in this respect with emissions-free commercial vehicles only from 2026. By doing so, half of the car market in Belgium makes the switch to emission-free transport. In addition, at federal level, we are also fully committed to rail transport. However, mobility policy is a matter for the regions and local authorities. For the questions on the incorporation rates in the amount of biofuels consumed on the Belgian market, I would refer to Mrs Van der Straeten, who is responsible for this, in the context of the further transposition of the Renewable Energy Directive, the federal contribution to the NEFP and the necessary adaptation to the revised 2030 targets. A possible shift towards the use of rape oil for biodiesel is indeed expected in the short term if soya oil or palm oil is no longer to be used as a raw material. Although the climate impact of rape oil is certainly not something to write home about, the risk of deforestation is certainly less. It is also not the case that the food producers will now replace all rape oil with soya oil or palm oil or that it is the same quantities as was suggested in the question, but I agree with the underlying idea. In order to exclude this kind of second-order effects, it is necessary to move as quickly as possible towards a fuel-free and emission-free transport and, in the meantime, to further reduce the use of first-generation biofuels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u9	Madam Minister, it is indeed a somewhat mixed responsibility with Mrs van der Straeten. Thank you for the explanation of the Royal Decree which still needs to be worked out. You await the advice. You have somewhat nuanced the question of the shift around rape. You have a point. There is, of course, that great dream for the phase-out of the first generation in general, so biofuels. Then, of course, you refer to Vivaldi's plans for emission-free driving with a company car. However, I understand that there is still no agreement within the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would point out that the decision you have made is a very good decision, although, indeed, there are many sub-elements to be taken into account. You have also clarified several of them. You were also right to recall that in 2020, our use of soy and palm-type agrofuels exploded and that we could no longer wait, even a year or two, to move forward. In addition, you show that we are well placed in a broader medium-term perspective, although a revision of the National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP) is necessary at this level. It's important to move forward and we don't have a magic wand to do it faster. However, I believe that a line must remain very clear. That is what we expect from you and Mrs Van der Straeten: we do not want food in our cars. It's obvious. Of course, the Vivaldi government is committed to reducing the number of petrol and biodiesel cars. That's a good thing. We'll have to do better; go beyond company cars. We really need to move to a decarbonised road structure and continue to invest in public transport, which the Vivaldi government is also doing. Thank you for starting this important debate with a necessary decision. We really expect solutions for first-generation agrofuels and a 7% reduction in these in the coming months. We will return to Mrs Van der Straeten and yourself to continue the debate in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very clear answer. Under the guise of climate policy, some wrong measures have been taken in the past with the so-called greenwashing: driving would become more ecological because biofuels are added, but food crops - we have to be honest about this - do not belong under a hood. So I am very pleased with your decision to ban palm oil and soya oil as biofuels. You started your answer by saying that this is a first step in improving the sustainability of biofuels, but it should not be an end point. You're right about that. We can reduce the total volume of biofuels and also impose strict quotas for second generation biofuels. Some Members are rightly concerned about the possible shift to rape. I think, however, that we need to make another shift: we need to make a switch to cars without internal combustion engines. That is a choice that the government wants to make clear. By the way, more and more car manufacturers make that click. I am convinced that we can include the market in that story, so let us certainly have that debate. I am convinced that you are now taking a first step towards improving the sustainability of biofuels, but we are certainly not yet at the end of the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which is being searched and searched! Indeed, it is a very difficult matter and we are just starting the debate. Actually, we're pursuing him. We are starting the debate with you, but we are continuing it for Belgium. I understand that there is still no agreement in the federal government on the one hand and that, on the other hand, it is a bit of a lot of your function that unfortunately includes only the Environment and Sustainable Development, which are vast subjects. It is not pejorative, but unfortunately they are not directly associated with Energy. Fortunately for you, it is easier because you are in the same political group as the Minister of Energy, but at the same time it always blocks you in terms of concrete progress. You are telling me, with a small point, that the oil sector has, of course, been consulted. I was not referring to this sector at all. I was simply taking the word of each other and the word of the other to show you the pitfalls and limits within which you have to work and which are very difficult. I am talking to you, for example, about the production of bioethanol. This sector which exists in Belgium produces biofuel and adapts, in its production process, to European requirements and soon to the new requirements that you want to introduce. It is not directly concerned but still! I imagine you met her, too. I think it is necessary to think about this industry and to ensure that what is feasible and what is required by Europe, which is already very high as a level of demand, also allows us to have a production line on our soil. It is within these limits, I think, that we must continue to make progress. I will ask you again in a few weeks to see how you continue to walk on this very difficult terrain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u13	Madam Minister, you acknowledge the negative effects of first-generation biofuels, but by phasing out only soya and palm oil biofuels, the harmful effects of all first-generation biofuels will not completely disappear, as all first-generation biofuels will have to be phased out. We have recently tabled a legislative proposal in this respect. We do not believe that biofuels are the solution to a transition to sustainable and climate-neutral transport, on the contrary, they are even a brake on their development. The more you make use of these biofuels, the less the various transport ministers in this country should focus on well-developed public transport and a modal shift towards soft mobility. Biofuels as a so-called solution may be worse than the ailment. It is time for a firm policy to stop first-generation biofuels now, to keep the use of advanced biofuels to the minimum imposed by the EU and to focus on real sustainability of our transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note your strong concern about the fundamental challenge of limiting the use of biofuels that are harmful to biodiversity and the environment. We stress your action in this regard. As far as incorporation is concerned, I will therefore follow your advice and continue my investigations with your colleague, Mrs Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u15	Colleagues, I wish to be replaced from noon onwards in order to be able to participate in the Bureau of the House. Mrs. Hanus, is that all right with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u16	Mr President, of course, in video conferencing as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u17	Mr President, Minister, after what I hear here, it is clear that there are still some kittens to be flogged in the government. At the same time, it is also necessary to look at the whole of this chain in a decent way. Moving forward on sustainability is a good thing, but we also need to look at how we deal with advanced biofuels. There are investors here today who want to work on this, but who do not have a clear picture of what the government really wants to do with it, especially after the statements made by your fellow Minister Van der Straeten. It wants to do everything in its power to limit the commitment to renewable fuels in the National Energy and Climate Plan. She even argues for steps that seem to guide double counting throughout the green stream story. Well, I guess I'm a little worried. So you would do well to talk about the whole chain and not just those two basic raw materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u18	Madam Minister, on 31 March 2021, the OECD presented the Environmental Performance Review on Belgium, i.e. our country's environmental performance assessment, containing a number of recommendations. In this new analysis of Belgian environmental policy since 2005, the OECD concludes that Belgium is not on the way to achieving sustainable development targets and European climate objectives by 2030. The findings are consistent with the evaluations carried out by the European Commission and the European Environment Agency. Progress in areas such as air quality, waste and CO2 emissions is insufficient to achieve biodiversity loss and climate targets for 2030. The striking common thread is always the lack of a long-term vision shared and supported by all governments. Reference is made to an interfederal climate law. Madam Minister, on March 31, 2021, you were in the interview entitled "We start with a heavy climate heritage' and pleine form and were very hard hit by the Flemish policy level in particular. I quote: 'I have gradually realised that the nationalist agenda of the N-VA is clouding the debate. Its main objective is to show that it is not possible to work together in Belgium." You also indicate that there is no political will for a national climate law and that Bart De Wever is more ambitious in terms of climate than the entire Flemish government. I can go on like this. It's a very interesting interview. Firstly, Madam Minister, what is your substantive response to the recommendations in the report? It includes almost all of your policy paper, by the way. Secondly, can you also explain your very sharp remarks about the lack of cooperation with the Flemish Government on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, my colleague Kim Buyst has already asked you in plenary about this a few weeks ago. But I think it is appropriate for us to come back to the committee, having more time at our disposal. On Thursday 31 March 2021, the OECD published the report on the environmental performance of its member countries, including Belgium. The report estimates that Belgium will not meet its sustainability targets by 2030. In its first report since 2007, the OECD states that Belgium has made progress on greenhouse gas emissions and air and water pollution. However, they are not sufficient. The OECD adds that "Belgium's performance remains insufficient to halt biodiversity loss and to alleviate the growing pressures of demographic development, urbanization and intensive agricultural practices". Air pollution remains a health concern and the use of pesticides in agriculture is the main source of water pollution. On the basis of these findings, the OECD concludes that Belgium will not meet its 2030 sustainable development goals and makes recommendations, several of which depend on the federal level, in particular in terms of taxation, biodiversity and circular economy. I have, of course, addressed specific questions on agriculture to your colleague Mr Clarinval. This report is in addition to other criticisms of Belgian environmental policies. In view of these findings, you have announced a serious resumption by submitting to the Council of Ministers a note aimed at imposing on each minister a road map, a timetable and a regular monitoring of the reduction of CO2 emissions. No later than September 30, each minister and the administrations under his/her control, the federal public institutions and the competent public enterprises will have to submit a detailed roadmap with planning of the actions to be undertaken, the intermediate steps and the deadlines. The document will also include indicators and a methodology for monitoring the policies and measures envisaged. Minister, how will the working group that will monitor the implementation of the roadmaps and report on progress in each area be established? Regardless of the CO2 targets, how do you intend to address the other challenges highlighted in the OECD report? Among the OECD recommendations, on which are you putting a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u20	Minister, on March 31, 2021, the OECD published its environmental report 2021 on Belgian policy. This review reveals some positive results in terms of respect for the climate and the environment: the reduction of greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions, municipal waste generated, energy and materials consumed, and water abstraction over the past decade. However, a number of shortcomings are also mentioned, which support the following observation: "Belgium is not on the right track to achieve the sustainable development goals". Minister, can we get your feedback on the findings of the OECD review? The abridged version of the review presents five categories of recommendations. These include climate change and water management, environmental governance and management, green growth, biodiversity and waste, and material management and the circular economy. The adoption of an "inter-federal climate law defining long-term national targets (2030 and 2050) to achieve climate neutrality" is included in the first of these categories. Can we get your point of view on this? Can such a measure be considered? Is contact with your competent regional colleagues envisaged in this regard? In addition, the second category contains a recommendation on "increased coordination between the federal government and the Regions, as well as between the Regions, particularly in the areas of climate change, water resources management, waste management and the circular economy". Is the implementation of related initiatives being considered? Finally, on 2 April 2021, we learned via press release "the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a tool for monitoring federal policies and measures to achieve climate objectives". This press release refers to the preparation of roadmaps by ministers and their administrations. Will these be communicated to Parliament? Can we be informed of the organisational arrangements for the follow-up of the measures mentioned in the roadmaps? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u21	The OECD verdict fell the day after our previous questioning: Belgium's environmental and climate policy has been guided across the board. That verdict doesn't come as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. We have known for years that environmental and climate policy in Belgium is behind the facts. We continue to emit too many greenhouse gases. These emissions have hardly been reduced since 2014. Our country has not achieved its renewable energy targets, which forced taxpayers to pay a heavy fine. 93% of Belgians receive more fine dust than is healthy. Our water quality is severely affected by fertilizers and pesticides. The loss of biodiversity in our country is accelerating. Then we have not even discussed environmental legislation, which is regularly violated. For many of these aspects you are not directly competent and just the policy fragmentation indicates the OECD as the main cause of Belgium's environmental and climate failure. For climate and environment alone, there are four ministers in Belgium and for related areas such as energy, mobility and agriculture there are additional ministers. All these ministers must be able to work well together in order to pursue a sound environmental and climate policy. That's where the shoe just snapped. Our federal state in its present form, without a hierarchy of standards, makes sure that if one level of policy does not cooperate, the policy becomes blocked. There is no unit of command around the environment and climate in Belgium. This requires a special climate law or at least a cooperation agreement. Although you are in favour of this, you indicated in the newspaper that this may not work because of a lack of political will from Flanders. How do you intend to get out of this impasse so that Belgium can implement the environmental and climate policy that meets today's and tomorrow's needs? How do you think environmental and climate policy should take shape in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there were few surprises in the report, both the OECD's analyses and recommendations converge with previous reports: the one on the state of the environment in the European Union or the Commission's analysis of the PNEC. Specific follow-up to OECD recommendations will be carried out within the bodies concerned by the various themes. As regards my competence, for example climate governance, my proposal on the follow-up to the implementation of the federal climate policies and measures for 2021-2030 was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 April 2021. The follow-up mechanism provides for a six-monthly review of the state of play within inter-kabinette working groups. This will be done on the basis of follow-up tables and annual progress reports which will in turn give rise to a public synthesis report presented by the Council of Ministers. This structural framework for planning and monitoring federal climate policy is real progress. We make it a priority to implement this framework. It will also examine whether it is necessary, appropriate and feasible to maintain structural follow-up through the adoption of a legislative framework. A federal action plan on circular economy is also being prepared, in cooperation with my colleague, Mr Dermagne, in charge of Economics. We intend to present this to the Council of Ministers in September 2021. The plan will be built around five objectives: to encourage the marketing of circular products and services, to encourage more circularity in the mode of production, to support the role of public consumers and purchasers, to provide the necessary incentives and tools and to evaluate progress. With regard to my powers, my intention is to lay down criteria on the use of certain wort claims, for example on the content of recycled materials, the content of bio-based materials, repairability or recyclability, etc. I also want to work on providing information through the value chains. This should contribute to European work on product passporting. I also intend to work on replacing certain dangerous chemicals which are currently preventing healthy recycling. With respect to the recommendations on sustainable development, the draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan was tabled in the Council of Ministers on March 19. I have submitted the preliminary draft plan simultaneously to the legislative chambers, the councils and the governments of the Communities and the Regions. The public consultation on the development of the draft plan began on 9 April and will last until 8 June. I will then submit the draft federal sustainable development plan and advice to the Council of Ministers before October 1, 2021. In order to achieve the post-2020 biodiversity targets, a national strategy for maintaining and protecting biodiversity will be developed in consultation with the Regions, integrating other existing plans into the global framework, European biodiversity and forest conservation strategies, as well as biodiversity recommendations resulting from the OECD's environmental performance review. I will ensure the signing of a CITES cooperation agreement with the Regions, which will lead in particular to strengthening the means and collaborations for its implementation. With regard to the recommendation for increased coordination, I intend to promote the proven technique of national plans where the Regions consider them equally relevant. My priorities are to put biodiversity on the public political agenda at the same level as the climate issue. The restoration of a healthy environment without chemicals, the transition to a circular economy and the democratization of the debate to reach the most vulnerable audiences. For years there has been good cooperation with the Regions, through the existing coordination structures of the CCIM. This cooperation is based on a consensus and can escalate to higher political levels, where ministers ultimately take the final decisions. Since the beginning, I have been open to dialogue and cooperation, to federalism for cooperation. However, Mr Ravyts, I have to say that the desire for cooperation must come from both sides. At present, this is sometimes not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in your reply you have made a number of preliminaries to my next oral questions, but we will be able to go into some more detail later. With regard to biodiversity and circular economy, agreements should be possible with your colleague, Mr Demir, in the coming months and years. With regard to the Federal Sustainable Development Plan, our work was somewhat amputated by the cyber attack last week. That was a shame, of course. Madam Minister, with regard to this positive escalation, because in French something can also escalate positively to higher political levels, it is good that the institutional future is being reconsidered in this country. The beautiful Switzerland may not be a bad example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u24	Thank you for your detailed answer, Minister. I note two priority points, which you also included in your policy note. We find the strong axes of the circular economy, a true consideration of biodiversity issues at the political level – which is quite recent in both Europe and Belgium – and the right to a healthy environment. It is important to address both environmental and social issues. We can only encourage you in this regard. I find it very interesting to move forward in terms of effective work capacity and monitoring. In politics, there are many ambitions: to implement them is sometimes more complicated. Bringing the whole government together with clear roadmaps and targets for Parliament and civil society and monitoring and being able at some point to support where it hurts, when necessary, seems to me to be a significant step forward in good governance and efficiency. We look forward to these roadmaps in September and will see if they will live up to what the OECD expects of us, but also to what the environment in general and our health expect of us. We will see how Parliament can support this work. Thank you for putting on an accelerator. We expect a lot of coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u25	I welcome the Minister's consideration of the results of this OECD environmental review for Belgium. I take note of the suggested ways to significantly improve the results. I share the Minister's willingness to put biodiversity on an equal footing with climate issues, as well as her analysis of social issues, which must not be forgotten. Let us look at and consider the roadmaps that will be proposed to ensure that the work is done in depth. We will ensure careful and vigilant follow-up to this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and for explaining your vision. For us it is quite clear, we want a unity of command in place of that scattered battle order. It is also time to consider the re-federalisation of certain environmental and climate-related powers. Pollution does not stop at the regional borders. We do not say that everything has to come back to the federal level, because for some things regional expertise is really an added value. However, there must be a clear hierarchy so that the federal level can monitor policy coherence. We need ambitious environmental planning at national level so that all regions can contribute properly and so that climate change and environmental issues can really be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u27	Madam Secretary, I'm going into federal climate governance. On 2 April 2021, the Council of Ministers undertook to establish a monitoring instrument for federal policies and measures (PAMs) to reduce greenhouse gases. These PAMs were identified in the federal contribution to the NEKP and the announced actions in the government agreement, the general policy papers and the policy statements. Each minister will therefore have to be a climate minister:au fédéral tout le monde devra se mouiller, to say it beautifully in the language of Molière. You have already answered a number of questions, but I do not think there are any calculated plans yet as to what each cabinet should do, how and against when to do so and with the assistance of which institutions. Can you confirm that these concrete roadmaps are not yet ready? They should be ready for an Inter-Kabinette working group by June and not be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers until after the summer. A number of French-speaking colleagues have already asked if you are prepared to share the progress reports, in addition to the public summary report, with the members of the committee, Madam Minister. I am therefore looking at you, Mr President. After all, you are announcing a very important policy measure, Madam Minister: a transversal approach in which each department will have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u28	Mr Ravyts, given the transversal nature of climate policy and the multitude of the federal areas of competence involved in the PAMs, I think it is essential that the Council of Ministers makes a collective commitment to this effort and that each minister concerned, within his powers, makes every effort to achieve the desired objectives. The note also decided that the relevant ministers should mobilise the relevant Federal Public Services, institutions and companies under their supervision and, in consultation with those departments, draw up a detailed roadmap containing the necessary initiatives for the operationalisation of the PAMs and their follow-up. This roadmap will consist essentially of an action plan for the operationalisation of the measures, the description of intermediate steps and their deadlines and the identification of indicators and/or methodology for monitoring the PAMs, in accordance with European provisions. For the development of the methodology for monitoring, the departments concerned may rely on technical support from a consortium of consultants, with ICEDD, Gauss, VITO and TML, appointed under a public contract of the FPS Public Health, DG Environment, for the update of the impact assessment of existing federal climate policies and the development of a monitoring methodology for federal PAMs from the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030. These roadmaps should be developed as a priority for the 22 identified themes in seven specific areas, namely taxation and finance, energy, mobility, economy, public buildings, civil service and public enterprises and international cooperation and two transversal domains, namely governance and adaptation. The list is not exhaustive and, if necessary, additional action may be taken on a proposal from the ministers concerned. Ministers are asked to submit their implementation plan, drawn up with their administrations, to the Council of Ministers and to report periodically on progress to decide on possible additional or improved actions. The roadmaps, which will be developed in the coming months, will be expected at the Council of Ministers by 30 September at the latest. The state of implementation will then be discussed by the policy cells every six months. Annual progress reports will be consolidated in a synthesis report, which will be made public. It seems to me that this is an excellent time to discuss the subject here in committee. I will, of course, make the progress reports available to the committee. The intention is that the government should discuss, within three months of publication, any additional decisions that might be required to fully achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u29	I am quite satisfied with the comprehensive answer. It is indeed an important matter. Among other things, my colleague often discusses the federal responsibilities and the federal part of climate policy, and you could not help but launch such a measure. Thank you for explaining the roadmaps and methodologies of the monitoring. I hope that we will find a solution here. Finally, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council with a method of giving us some light over the next few months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u30	Mr President, Minister, perhaps you have already mentioned that I am following your policy activities in a fairly detailed manner, which, moreover, falls within my mandate as a federal representative of the people. As a result of a media contribution about the criticism of certain NGOs, Belgium's international commitments to international climate finance are insufficient or not, you tweeted on 31 March: "We start with the decision to release an additional 12 million euros annually. Together with the regions, we need to consider a new ambitious Belgian objective." You will forgive me if I would like to anticipate the COP in Glasgow, where issues such as international climate finance are addressed. We know that a total of EUR 100 million will be provided at federal level in 2021, of which EUR 12 million will not come from the development cooperation pot. You're trying to put that plume on your hat in front of the NGOs. In my view, it does not correspond directly to the budgetary neutrality advocated by some Liberal colleagues during the rest of the government, but that is obviously not my concern. Of course, it's never enough for the NGOs. Every year people want EUR 500 million, and some even talk about EUR 1 billion, as a correct Belgian contribution. Madam Minister, do you have any plans, in the run-up to COP26 in Glasgow, to improve the Belgian objectives? Will you put some pressure on your regional colleagues within the National Climate Commission? Are there any conversations about that? What's the timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u31	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, you may mean the Climate and Development Ministerial, which, like the IEA-COP26 Net Zero Summit, took place on 31 March. The focus was on international solidarity with the most vulnerable countries, to which international climate financing should give concrete expression. The vulnerable countries, in particular the least developed countries and the African countries, are a priority in Belgian climate finance. In recent years, the federal government has systematically taken over the vast majority of Belgian climate finance. Each year, the proposed annual contribution of EUR 50 million was substantially exceeded. The federal government has committed itself in the government agreement to an increasing contribution to international climate financing, regardless of the budget of development cooperation. A first concrete step in this is the approval by the federal government of an interdepartmental commission on climate finance of 12 million euros per year over the period 2021 to 2024. I am preparing this dossier together with the Minister for Development Cooperation. I will continue to work within the government for a further increase in the federal Belgian contribution to climate finance over the coming years. The national negotiations on the contribution of the different authorities are part of the broader framework of the negotiations within the National Climate Commission on the sharing of efforts to achieve the climate targets for the period 2021-2030. The Belgian objectives in the context of increasing the European level of ambition are not yet known. They will result from the revision of the various legislations concerned, including the European Regulation on the distribution of efforts for which the European Commission's proposals are expected by mid 2021. The intention is to reach a political agreement in the National Climate Commission on the Belgian contribution to international climate finance for COP26 in Glasgow in November this year. Pending an agreement on climate finance, each entity should determine its own contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u32	Of course, the Flemish interest is not in favour of more international climate financing when we find that other continents continue to invest massively in coal production, for example. Then what are we doing for our people? You have said that it might become a long hot summer for you at a time when the distribution of efforts will be known, the so-called Burden Sharing. Then you will have to debate again with Flanders, among other things, about its revision. This will, of course, also cover international climate financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u33	Madam Minister, I have been a member of the Flemish group for a long time, including on the environment. The circular economy interests me, of course. Belgium fully supports the European Action Plan for Circular Economy and New Industrial Strategy. You have already announced a new federal action plan on circular economy, with a strong commitment to the federal competence in product policy, focusing on design for disassembly, reuse and recycling of high quality, as well as combating premature ageing. In your speech following the presentation of the OECD report, you have actually recognised that Belgium currently has no common policy objectives for the circular economy. You said you'd wash that pig in the framework of the Intra-Belgian Platform Circular Economy. Can you explain more about your substantive objectives of that new federal action plan? How's the work going? What's the timeline? When will the issue of the lack of common policy objectives be addressed on the Intra-Belgian Platform Circular Economy? Has the problem been dealt with in this legislature, by you or your predecessor? What steps have been taken in this respect? What were the results of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u34	The federal circular economy plan, which is currently being prepared, is based on five objectives. These are, firstly, to encourage the marketing of circular products and services, secondly, to encourage more circularity in production methods, thirdly, to support the role of consumers and public customers, fourthly, to provide the necessary incentives and tools and, fifthly, to assess progress. The objectives will be translated into measures. As part of my powers, I intend to develop a recovery index, which should be mentioned on some electrical and electronic devices, to lay down criteria for the use of certain components, including the presence of recycled materials and materials of biological origin and for their recoverable and recyclable character. I also intend to work on strengthening information throughout the value chain to contribute to the European work on the product passport. Together with Minister Dermagne, I would also like to work on the substitution of some dangerous chemicals that currently prevent healthy recycling. A draft plan will be presented to the Regions and stakeholders in the course of the coming month. The issue of the lack of common objectives at Belgian level will be addressed during the consultation of the Regions and will be raised in particular at the next meeting of the Platform at the end of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for the informative answer on the five objectives, the content of which you have explained in detail. I would also like to thank you for the timetable. The next month will therefore be important, with consultation and consultation of the Regions and at the end of this month the meeting of the national platform for the circular economy. I'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u36	Mr President, I do think it would be useful to have regular contacts with the Minister on the concrete steps taken in the context of the policy paper. Then we come to the green financing strategy and the announced action plan to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. In the policy statement, which goes beyond the policy paper, Mrs Khattabi said last year that she would launch an initiative on sustainable finance, which would include the implementation of the Task Force's recommendations for climate-related financial disclosures and the network for greening the financial system, and to provide FPIM guidelines for the development of a coordinated, sustainable and more ambitious investment and investment strategy. Madam Minister, can you give an update on your range of actions, inevitably together with your colleague Mr Van Peteghem, on setting up a green financing strategy to accompany the financial sector in aligning its activities with the Belgian climate objectives? What is the state of play regarding the announced comprehensive inventory of fossil fuel subsidies and the announced action plan to phase them out? What's your timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u37	By the end of October 2020, Belgium submitted an application to the European Commission for indirect technical support under the Technical Support Instrument, the former Structural Reform Support Programme, for the development of a national, green, sustainable financing strategy. This application, worth EUR 350 000, was approved and can be spent over 18 months. The specifications, drawn up in close cooperation with the Minister for Finance and in dialogue with the European Commission, will soon be completed, after which the Commission will appoint a consultant. The effective start is foreseen for the beginning of the summer. The strategy to be developed will include two pillars: the financial sectors and the federal government as an investor. It looks at the supply side of funding and how financial flows can be reoriented to be compatible with the Paris Agreement. As you know, the government agreement stipulates that the federal state and the institutions under its jurisdiction will have fully withdrawn by 2030 from companies that emit intensive greenhouse gas and do not actively engage in the energy transition. The strategy to be developed will help to operationalise this objective of the coalition agreement. With regard to the federal inventory of fossil fuel subsidies, the descriptive section detailing the different fossil fuel subsidies is currently being finalised. The purpose of this report is to identify and measure the amount of subsidies for fossil fuels. It includes both subsidies provided in the form of budgetary expenditure and subsidies provided through taxes. The National Energy and Climate Plan contains a two-fold commitment. Firstly, there is an inventory of subsidies for fossil fuels. Secondly, recommendations are being made for the phasing out or phasing out of grants in 2021. This report therefore meets the first of these two commitments and lays the basis for the discussions of the second commitment. This will be the subject of a broader study soon launched by the Federal Public Administration Finance with the aim of identifying and evaluating possible options for environmental taxes. In addition, a list of energy subsidies, including fossil fuel subsidies, has recently been provided to the European Commission in line with the EU Regulation on the Governance of the Energy Union and Climate Action. This list contains the federal, Walloon and Brussels contributions. The Flemish Region had already communicated its list of energy subsidies. The Belgian recovery plan presented to the European Commission last week also refers to this fossil fuel tax reform, in particular to assessing how federal taxation can be reformed in order to make it more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly, to draw up concrete proposals for a greener reform of federal taxation and to develop a tax-driven instrument that discourages the consumption of fossil fuels and thus reduces CO2 and NOx pollution in Belgium. Once this proposal for fiscal greening has been worked out, it will be discussed in the federal government and discussed with the federated entities in due course with a view to ensuring a coherent and more efficient climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for this important answer. As I actually suspected, the first part of the subject has yet to reach cruising speed. The Green Investment Fund within the Transformation Fund will not enter into force until next year. Apparently, the consultant has not even been appointed by Europe. You mentioned the beginning of the summer. For the rest, we will follow very closely the further work on fiscal reform. You have said the words "environmental tax options." Of course, we already knew you were thinking about that. It will therefore be a very delicate quest for the most optimal instrument to discourage the consumption of fossil fuels. This could become one of the Achilles tendons of this Vivaldi coalition in the coming years. We'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u39	Madam Minister, with the exception of China, the European Union is apparently the largest importer of products linked to tropical deforestation and associated emissions. Eight EU countries, including Belgium, even account for 80% of imported deforestation in Europe. This is reflected in a new report by the WWF, which establishes a direct link between the consumption of imported products and the conversion of ecosystems. Reference is made to agricultural raw materials consumed and used as feed. In addition, Belgium is an important import access point, which is then further distributed in the European Union. Interestingly in the background is that the European Union will soon come forward with a proposal for new EU legislation to combat deforestation, the European Forest Act, which has been subject to public consultation. How do you respond to the report? What is Belgium's position on EU legislation? Do you think that we need to go beyond voluntary measures and provide companies with clear and useful rules? Do you think there is a need for a complementary national policy alongside the European framework? What steps have you already taken or are you planning to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u40	Madam Secretary, last month the new WWF deforestation report came out. The findings of that report were at least confrontational. The EU is the world's second largest importer of tropical deforestation, as Mr Ravyts has just said, and the eight economically strongest countries within the EU, including Belgium, account for 80% of imported deforestation in the EU. The researchers point out that Belgium's responsibility for this is enormous. The ecological footprint of Belgian consumption worldwide is many times greater than the spatial impact of that consumption in our country itself. Belgium imports a large proportion of deforestation from other countries as a turning point for European trade. The WWF report reveals a clear link between the consumption of imported products and the conversion of ecosystems. Consequently, the loss of biodiversity caused by Belgium is also much greater than the effects we see within our borders. Despite all the voluntary Amsterdam Declaration Partnerships, our country is not doing very well to combat imported deforestation. It is therefore a good thing that the EU is finally coming up with legislation to curb deforestation this spring. Madam Minister, will you argue at EU level that the new EU legislation should address the full footprint of EU consumption on our planet's forests and other ecosystems? What will you do to address the impact of Belgian consumption and the role of Belgium as a port of transit for imported deforestation? Have you taken initiatives to this end, and if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u41	Colleagues, like you, I am concerned about the serious consequences of global deforestation. Like the climate crisis, the issue of biodiversity is a priority challenge for me. The recent WWF report confirms trends and challenges that are known. Policy makers worldwide must take joint initiatives to halt mass deforestation. As you know, Belgium joined the Amsterdam Partnership by signing the new statement of ambition of the ADP. With the new statement of ambition, ADP countries undertake to promote agricultural sustainability by eliminating the deforestation related to agricultural raw materials. This initiative is working on deforestation-free supply chains for a number of agricultural products such as cocoa, palm oil, soya and recently meat and leather. The aim is to engage in dialogue and cooperation with producer and consumer countries and all actors in the supply chains. Cooperation between consumer countries, including European neighbouring countries, and producer countries is a key element in solving the challenge of transforming food chains. The ADP represents its efforts in the Agenda 20-30 for Sustainable Development, the Paris Climate Agreement, the New York Declarations on Forests, the Strategic Forest Plan 2017-2030 and the future Global Biodiversity Framework beyond 2020. One of the actions in the new preliminary draft of the Federal Plan for Sustainable Development concerns sustainable food import chains. I invite you to take note of this. As the first measure since membership of the ADP, I have strengthened the sustainability criteria for biofuels on the basis of the Product Standards Act. Biofuels based on palm oil will no longer be allowed on the Belgian market, as in Denmark, France and the Netherlands, in the transport sector from mid 2022. From 2023, soya will also be banned as a raw material for biofuels for transport. This is a first step to stop the negative environmental impacts of federal biofuels policy. Right now, me and the administration are working on the federal strategy Beyond Food. It aims to make food import chains more sustainable, in particular by fighting against imported deforestation. That strategy would apply until 2030. The administrations involved actively work on various elements of this strategy and also work with academic experts, who have a better knowledge of the role of Belgium in global deforestation. Cooperation with the private sector is also crucial. The government is working on a structure for the follow-up and coordination of Beyond Food's actions. Deforestation-free agricultural supply chains are also one of the objectives of the European Green Deal, the European Biodiversity Strategy and the European Farm to Fork Strategy. The European Commission is currently developing legislation to minimise the risk of deforestation and forest degradation of products placed on the European market. In Europe, the European regulation Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade (FLEGT) established a legal framework to combat illegal logging and trafficking in illegal timber. The 2014 New York Declaration on Forest also pays attention to other drivers of deforestation, such as mining. The UN Forest Forum evaluates the implementation of sustainable forest-related development objectives and also provides input for a number of initiatives such as the UN Decade for Ecosystem Recovery 2021-2030. Under the Paris Agreement, several parties have set targets for reducing emissions from deforestation or reforestation targets in their Nationally Determined Contributions. In the run-up to COP26, the United Kingdom has launched a Forest, Agriculture and Commodity Trade dialogue to halt deforestation as a result of the demand for basic products. These objectives are also supported by the Tropical Rain Forest Alliance, a multistakeholder partnership. Belgium has joined both initiatives. I have also recently participated in the ministerial round table in the context of the FACT dialogue. Initiatives such as a European regulation on the duty of care of companies, due diligence or a global, legally binding instrument on business and human rights can also become instruments to combat deforestation in the future. The Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services can be used, among other things, to scientifically underpin forest policy. Belgian development cooperation also supports the strengthening of this link between science and policy, including through support to the United Nations Environment Program and, closer to home, the CEBioS "Capacity for Biodiversity and Sustainable Development" programme of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences. For the initiatives with our partner countries in the context of development cooperation, I would like to refer to my fellow Minister Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u42	Madam Minister, I think it is a good idea to set up a tree on this issue, because, on the contrary, all the madness on a stick, the figures are not funny. In particular, the report points out that there is no longer any possibility of compromise on this issue. I therefore fully support your approach to biofuels. We do not need compromises, we need clear positions, as we are not the best student in the class. Strict penalties for illegal logging and also for illegal imports, especially in our country, and clear language, is what we need. In your reply, I have heard many elements which I will look into further. Allow me also to formulate a marginal remark. We are now discussing the disappearance of forests as an international problem. I myself come from a very green province, but today I read again that in a nature reserve a third of the trees are being cut down to create new ecosystems. At micro level, that seems fine to me, but I still feel that we should look at the fragmented nature policy, although I know that it is a regional competence. On the one hand, we are fighting against global warming, on the other hand, I can see that hundreds of hectares of forest have disappeared in my own city to make heaths. I think that is fine, but I think that this should be looked at, as I feel that we are not all in the same line.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u43	Madam Minister, Mr Verduyckt's last remark is, of course, quite right, but that is, of course, a matter for the Flemish Parliament and the Agency for Nature and Forest. It is good that you have unfolded the whole panoply of what Belgium is doing about deforestation at international level and in your policy. We know that the EU is working on a forest law and we must not forget the law on the restoration of nature. You also cited the Farm-to-Fork strategy. If some parts of the Green Deal can count on our approval, then it is about what has to do with biodiversity, because we have a lot of reservations about other things. Mr President, I think Mrs de Laveleye's resolution will also deal with the aspects of this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You are referring to your initiative to ban soya and palm oil as biofuels, but that will not be enough to completely counteract imported deforestation. That's what I said earlier. You minimize the shift from soya and palm oil consumption to the food sector, but there is. It is time that the European large business finally took responsibility for the ecological damage it causes in the rest of the world. It's not because we don't see it here that there isn't. There is an urgent need for a strong policy, both at national and European level, to limit the environmental impact of Belgian consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u45	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago I asked you whether you had transposed the European directive of 5 June 2019 on the reduction of the effects of certain plastic products on the environment, the SUP Directive, into Belgian law in good time. Many companies in the packaging sector have expressed their concern, because they must be able to make the necessary preparations to implement these new rules. You assured me that the deadline of July 3rd, not so far away, would be met. A draft of KB was discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment on 1 April. A number of other steps need to be taken now. Can you explain the timing of the different steps? Can you confirm that the KB was notified to the TRIS procedure on 26 March? This procedure would last until 28 June, the question arises whether the outcome of this procedure should be awaited in order to go through the steps outlined above, or could it be done in parallel? Can you tell us exactly what was discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment? What comments could have been made there? Finally, on what points does your draft Royal Decree depart from the European directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u46	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the royal decision is currently being discussed in the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the High Health Council, the Special Consultative Committee on Consumption, the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council. Afterwards, at the end of May 2021, the opinion of the Finance Inspector and the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget is requested, after which the Royal Decree can be submitted to the Council of Ministers in June 2021, in order to obtain an opinion from the Council of State. Finally, the signing and publication will follow. The Royal Decree was indeed already notified in the TRIS procedure, which concerns notification No. 2021/0185/B. In reply to your third question, I can tell you that the different steps and the TRIS procedure can run in parallel. The Royal Decree shall neither be implemented nor published before 28 June 2021. The draft royal decree was discussed. A comment was made by the Demir cabinet on plastic carrier bags, drinking cups and food packaging that may be placed on the market for the first time until 30 September 2022. The provision was therefore amended to "until 30 September 2023'. The draft Royal Decree is wider than just the transposition of the Single Use Plastics Directive. This is reflected in the title "KB on single use products and on the promotion of reusable products'. The draft also aims at transposing Directive 2015/720 amending Directive 94/62/EC on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags which, so far, has not been the subject of a federal measure. The purpose of this Directive is to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags and to enable Member States to prohibit some of those bags. This provision is transposed by Article 5 (2) of Annex 1 to the draft Royal Decree on single use products and to promote reusable products. It prohibits lightweight plastic carrier bags, with the exception of very lightweight plastic carrier bags and reusable plastic carrier bags that meet the requirements of the NBN EN 13429 standard. A deadline for this provision was provided for until 30 September 2023. The Single Use Plastics Directive offers the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of a number of products. These include, in particular, drinking cups, including closures and lids, food containers and containers such as cans with or without locking system used for food intended for immediate use, either on site or elsewhere, which are generally consumed from the container and which are ready to be consumed without further preparation, such as baking, cooking or heating. It is proposed to ban by 30 September 2023 as a deadline. Finally, Chapter 4 contains a provision on deposit bottles to reduce the loss in the re-use circuit. Station money bottles are used by a lot of bottlers, but only a minority wash the bottles for reuse. However, some actors who do not wash the bottles put labels on the bottles that are not loose in normal washing conditions. Those bottles won't be re-used. About 3% to 5% of the bottles would thus be lost, every 20 million bottles a year. Chapter 6 specifies the washing conditions of detergent concentration, temperature, washing time, to be met by the labels on the deposit bottles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u47	Madam Secretary, it is therefore a bit looking forward to what will become the KB. You have already outlined some of the outlines, but it will be a matter of succession, because the story has already been preceded by a lot of discussion in committee. The mere transposition of European legislation into Belgian law was not questioned by anyone, were it not that the PS wanted a legislative proposal to go far beyond where the European Commission lays the line. Despite the opposition of the N-VA and also of the Open Vld and CD&V, the then majority of the Vivaldi government was still formed before that bill was adopted. You say today that your draft of KB goes a little further than the SUP directive, and that does cause some fear, Madam Secretary. I note that it is taking a very long time and I can imagine that there are still some rubbings to be fought out in the government before there is a KB. After all, not everyone is on the same page in your team today. The unfortunate consequence of this is that an entire sector is the victim of an uncertain situation. I look forward to the responsibility that you are taking to come up with a final KB, which will at least create a piece of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u48	Madam Minister, the negotiators of the European Council and the European Parliament reached preliminary political agreement on the European Climate Law on 21 April 2021. This sets the objective of a climate-neutral EU by 2050 and a collective CO2 emission reduction target of at least 55% by 2030 in legislation. There are other elements to the agreement, such as the establishment of a European Scientific Advisory Council on Climate Change, the presentation by the European Commission of an interim climate target for 2040 and the publication of an estimated EU indicative greenhouse gas budget for the period 2030-2050. You have stated that Belgium is expressing its support for the agreement and the Belgian Government will contribute to achieving the objectives. But your competent Flemish colleague continues to argue that Europe has not yet made any calculation of the impact on Flanders and the affordability of the invoices for families and SMEs and wants to "don't sign a blank cheque." That's right. In addition, the Flemish government's minimum 35% target remains unchanged. When will there be an impact assessment by the European Commission, which should accompany the efficiency sharing regulation that is emerging and adapted to the new climate objectives? How does the federal government assess the importance of impact assessment, given the intra-Belgian consultation on Burden Sharing and the specific concerns of the Flemish government in December 2020? Mrs Khattabi, the European summit will be discussing the climate package on 25 May, but can you give some explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u49	Mr President, I am pleased that, after a little over one year of discussions, we have reached agreement on the European climate law, which anchors the objectives adopted by the European Council and contains very interesting elements for the European Parliament, in particular the target of achieving negative emissions by 2050 and of reducing the contribution of land sector compensation to the minimum 55% target. We can now work towards the Fit for 55 package and translate our ambitions into concrete sectoral legislation. Belgium does indeed support the agreement. During a DGE consultation between representatives of the federal government and the federated entities on 19 April, it was already clear that there was a great chance that an agreement would be reached on 21 April in the trialogue between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission, which could count on broad support in the Council, as a large majority of Member States would be on board. It was then concluded that Belgium would formally agree with the result of the trialogue. I regret, however, that Belgium was not able to contribute constructively during the previous process. Indeed, the Flemish Government reiterated in the intra-Belgian consultation on the European Climate Law, as in all other dossiers referring to the European target of minimum 35% by 2030, that Flanders is still abstaining. However, this objective was unanimously approved by all Member States in the European Council at the end of last year and was formally included as such for the Council's position in the trialogue. Since Belgian positions need to be determined by consensus and the federal government and the other regions explicitly support the min-55 % target, this attitude has made it almost impossible for Belgium to play an active role in the negotiations on the European climate law and also to defend the interests of Flemish citizens and businesses. I hope that now that there is a European political agreement on the climate law, we will also be able to count on the Flemish Government to ensure that Belgium can now play an active and constructive role in the negotiations on the extremely important Fit for 55 package. To underpin both the 2050 target and the revised 2030 target, the European Commission has already published comprehensive analyses. Although the Commission has assessed the impact at European level and has not analysed the specific impact at Member State level, the estimates indeed reflect the general trend and demonstrate that the increase in energy system costs is relatively limited and that ambitious climate policies are not only feasible and affordable, but can also have a positive impact on our competitiveness, our economic growth and jobs, if we address the transition properly and pursue coherent and well-thought-out policies. Moreover, the impact at Member State level, and certainly the social impact, is determined not only by the level of ambition, but also by concrete policies and political choices. It is therefore necessary to pursue a smart, coherent, integrated and forward-looking policy and to take full advantage of the opportunities of transition. The Commission is expected to publish its proposal on the Effort Sharing Regulation in June, along with an impact assessment, as required by law. Of course, the distribution of the objective is an important political challenge. With the federal government, therefore, we have taken the initiative and put forward proposals to establish a constructive Belgian position and to get out of isolation, in which we have become involved. Only by taking proactive action now will we be able to defend our interests and influence the creation of the European distribution key in good time. This will only be possible if all Belgian authorities show their willingness to come to a common position. It is incompatible to continue to question an objective which has now been adopted by all Member States and the European Parliament and which will thus also bind the Flemish Region. So I can only hope that the Flemish Government, like the other governments around the table, will see that and wish to hold the debate in a constructive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u50	Madam Minister, the outcome of that trialogue was, of course, as expected and no surprise for me. I can only repeat that I am looking forward to next month when the long-awaited result on the distribution by Member State and therefore the impact assessment by Member State is available. At least I hope so. We shall then see what the Flemish Government's reaction is. It will certainly not be an easy negotiation if I read what your colleague says about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, as we all know, the European Union wants to make a strong commitment to sustainable investment. We know, of course, the European climate law, which must ensure that the European Union as a whole is climate neutral by 2050. Madam Minister, the only question is what is sustainable. There seems to be a lot of discussion about this. In principle, an implementing decision had to be completed by December 2020 with a number of criteria of economic activities that are contrary to climate change and deserve a green label. We are now May 2021. It is therefore clear that Europe does not agree on the real rules of the game for green sustainable investment or taxonomy. I am thinking, for example, of everything that has to do with nuclear energy and gas, which to date is not conclusive. The decision has been postponed. France, for example, does see nuclear energy as a means of meeting the climate objectives imposed and therefore believes it should be part of the decarbonisation strategy. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to know the following from you. What's your opinion? Do you think the nuclear power plants are labelled'sustainable'? Why are they covered? What is the government's position on the other points that still exist today and on which there is no agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u52	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, it is indeed estimated that EUR 350 billion of additional investment in the energy system is needed every year to achieve the -55 % target by 2030. Sustainable funding is the cornerstone of meeting the financial needs of the transition, with the private sector playing an important role. Taxonomy was already adopted in June 2020. However, it is the delegated acts that will be adopted at a later date. As you know, the first delegated act for climate mitigation and adaptation was adopted on 21 April 2021. This does not include gas and nuclear energy, because of the political sensitivity of these issues. The entire federal government has firmly backed the nuclear trip by 2025 and I am not prepared to use the debate on the place of nuclear energy in EU taxonomy as a back door to once again create uncertainty in our country. Our citizens and businesses need security first and foremost. To answer your question, no, I do not consider nuclear power plants to be a sustainable activity. You know all the arguments and I will not repeat them, but allow me to remind you of the coalition agreement, which identifies nuclear energy as a polluting and thus replaceable energy source and which confirms the nuclear exit as an element of our energy vision. It would seem inappropriate for me to take a different attitude in the European context. Fossil fuels do not belong to our energy mix in the long term and can therefore only be used temporarily as a transition technology in our country, especially in the light of the nuclear exit. I am sure Mr Van der Straeten will be happy to explain this to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u53	Mr President, Minister, you say that sustainable investment is the cornerstone and that you rely on private investment. That seems clear to me. You say that nuclear power plants do not deserve a sustainable label, because your government believes that they are polluting. However, this is about achieving the CO2 targets. You say gas can be used in the transition story. This will mean more CO2 emissions and will therefore lead to the reverse reasoning of what we are trying to achieve. So it remains a certain mantra within the government. They're opposites of each other. A CO2 neutral solution will be removed in 2025 and CO2 will then be released into the air. Of course, it's the story of following who can. Neither your colleague Van der Straeten nor you can give a decent answer. Of course, I regret that. I have also noted that you do not want to give a sustainable label to nuclear energy in the debate in the European Union about taxonomy. Our position is clear and you are well aware of it, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, although I am a flaming man and Jacques Brel did not really speak for the flaming people, I am a fan of Jacques Brel. This brings me to French Polynesia in the Pacific, on which my question relates, in particular, to the conservation of marine fauna and flora in Antarctica. Belgium has been involved in protecting the marine ecosystem in the Southern Pacific for many years. Natural resources in these waters are increasingly sought after, not just because of commercial fishing. Climate change also has an impact on biodiversity. Belgium has always supported the objective of creating a network of marine protected areas across all geographical regions of the Southern Ocean. At the Hobart Conference, Belgium reaffirmed that commitment. A few years ago Belgium also supported in particular the proposals to establish two new protected sea areas. On 28 April 2021, you mentioned the reconfirmation of the Belgian commitment at the regular annual meeting of the Commission for the Conservation of the Marine Fauna and Flora of Antarctica, the CCAMLR, to which Belgium has been cooperating for almost 40 years. What exactly were your views during this session? What is the state of play with regard to the positions taken by Belgium at the Hobart Conference in October 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u55	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the annual meeting of the Commission for the Conservation of the Marine Fauna and Flora of Antarctica will not take place until the end of October. The ministerial meeting on 28 April was organised by European Commissioner Sinkevicius in the context of the European Commission's commitment to exert its diplomatic weight on the marine protected areas of the Southern Ocean. This commitment has been supported by Belgium through the European Biodiversity Strategy for 2030. At this ministerial meeting I reaffirmed the Belgian commitment to a sustainable world and a healthy ocean. I referred to the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and the contribution these proposals can make to making progress, as stated in SDG 14: preserving and making sustainable use of oceans, seas and maritime resources. I have emphasised the importance of protecting the Southern Ocean, because of its unique biodiversity and ecosystems and its role in regulating the climate, not only in Antarctica but worldwide. I also reiterated the Belgian commitment to pursue a target of 30% of strictly protected marine areas by 2030 within the new global framework for biodiversity currently under negotiation in the conventions on biological diversity. Finally, I drew attention to the example that the CCAMLR can set by adopting the current proposals for marine protected areas in order to demonstrate that multilateral diplomacy and science go hand in hand with the general well-being and health of our planet and of everyone. Since 2018, there has been little change in the content of the proposals for protected marine areas in Eastern Antarctica and the Weddell Sea. However, despite the opposition of China and Russia to these proposals within the CCAMLR, political support is growing. For example, Australia, Norway, the United Kingdom and Uruguay recently joined as cosponsors for both proposals. At the Ministerial event on 28 April, New Zealand and the United States announced that they too would join the proposals of the European Union and its Member States. All new cosponsors were warmly welcomed during the event. In the coming months, it will be necessary to cash in the momentum and to reach an agreement with all the parties involved within the CCAMLR, including the less obvious ones, to protect an area of more than three million square kilometres in the Southern Ocean.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I saw you look strange when I was talking about Jacques Brel. He was buried in the Marquise Islands, hence the reference. Paul Gauguin, the French painter, is buried there. I am pleased with your answer that those 30 percent strictly protected marine areas worldwide are a commendable target. I believe that, as far as our territorial waters are concerned, we are already above that percentage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u57	Question No F017079C by Mr Dallemagne was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u58	Madam Secretary, the government has the ambition to green the company car tax base. From 2026, only cars that do not emit CO2 would retain a tax favor regime of 100 % deductibility. The aim is that the Belgian company car park will be completely electric by 2030. A phased arrangement was introduced by your colleague Vincent Van Peteghem in a preliminary draft law, but the discussion about it in the government appears to be difficult. We concluded that when no decision was taken at last Friday's nuclear cabinet meeting. Where's the shoe wringing? The new rules could make the company car system even more attractive than before. Do you support Minister Van Peteghem's preliminary draft law, even if it would encourage the company car system and therefore possibly not take any cars off the road? How do you reconcile these plans with the story of a circular economy, which we have already discussed in committee? What should be done with existing vehicles? By greening the company fleet, the government also wants to encourage the greening of the ordinary fleet. Today, however, many commercial vehicles disappear at the end of the lease period to a foreign second-hand market. How will you ensure that this does not happen with tomorrow's electric commercial vehicles? In other words, how do you intend to ensure that they will contribute effectively to the greening of the Belgian fleet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u59	Mr Raskin, the government does indeed have the ambition to make the company fleet emission-free. We have entered the ambitious date of 2026 in the coalition agreement. From then on, only emission-free commercial vehicles should be placed on the market. I welcome Minister Van Peteghem's proposals. He takes the cow by the horns and immediately works on this important climate measure through fiscal reforms, which are now being discussed further in the government. It is known from stakeholder research that this measure can reduce transport non-ETS emissions by more than 10 million tonnes of CO2 by 2030. The reduction would even increase to more than 2 million tonnes per year. I do not need to remind you that the Flemish Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030 also refers to the measure and that in the past the Flemish Government has already urged the federal level to speed it up. As far as your specific questions are concerned, Minister Van Peteghem's proposals cover more than what has been discussed in the public debate so far. By also increasing climate ambition for vans, trucks, loading posts and the mobility budget, he has put on the table an interesting package of measures to bring our country to the frontrunners of emission-free mobility in Europe and even worldwide. This is good not only for the climate, but also for air quality, in connection with which infringement proceedings are under way against Antwerp and Brussels for breach of air quality standards. Moreover, given today's technological revolution, there is no doubt that leading the way ahead will create the job and entrepreneurial opportunities of the future. It is still too early to comment on the size of the company car fleet after the reform, which depends on the specific parameters, which are still being discussed. Just by working simultaneously to improve the mobility budget, Mr Van Peteghem sends the signal that he also wants to use the modal shift for commuting. Of course, he has my support for that. The fossil fleet is far from circular. Every year in Belgium, we convert more than 10 billion litres of motor fuels into waste products that enter the atmosphere and cause damage. A mobility system with soft means of transport and vehicles powered by electricity or renewable energy is an important step towards a circular model. Metals can be much better reused and recycled. To this end, we want to impose an obligation on producers to recycle an increasing proportion of metals from, for example, batteries. This now lies in the new European directive on batteries, which originates in the circular economy component of the Green Deal. Furthermore, electric vehicles have a much smaller climate impact than petrol or diesel cars, even if they are partly powered by power from gas plants. Honestly, I'm a little surprised at your third question. The answer lies in regional policy and there is some error. The reason why an important part of the diesel cars in the company car fleet is now being carried out is the same as why electric cars can flow to the private park in the future, namely vehicle tax. It is the regions that set the rates for the tax on entry and traffic tax. In the Flemish Government, your party colleague, Diependaele, is competent in this matter. The BIV and VB rightly penalise diesel cars. That is one of the reasons why, fortunately, these cars do not all disappear from the company car park to the private car park. If BIV and traffic tax are relatively more advantageous for emissions-free vehicles, they will indeed be able to find their way to the private car fleet and benefit local air quality and low greenhouse gas emissions in the non-ETS sectors throughout their lifetime. I note that regional autotaxism now also benefits cars on fossil gas. This is a first point of work when we are concerned about the flow of emission-free cars to the private fleet. In addition, we can increase the attractiveness of electric driving by improving the price ratio between motor fuels and electricity. Again, it is largely the Regions that are competent about the many costs that are passed on in the electricity bill. I look forward to a decisive intervention, including in Flanders, which also alleviates the electricity bill in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The fact that an electric car in itself emits less CO2 is logical and obvious. The question is how much CO2 may be released when generating the electricity. But that wasn't the discussion. I'll get back to you because you're allergic to it. Of course, it's a difficult story. It was initially a bill from Mr Lachaert, which was on the Committee's table before the Vivaldi government was installed. Mr Van Peteghem then had to take the flight forward and communicate about his preliminary draft due to leaks at IKW level. On Friday 7 May 2021 it was on the agenda of the nuclear cabinet, but no decision was taken. Instead of referring in particular to the regional level, especially Flanders, it is best to concentrate on the federal level. After all, I will tell you where the shoe is pinching, Madam Secretary. The socialists are most affected, of course because they are afraid of the budgetary impact. The Finance Inspectorate's note is very clear on this: EUR 700 million less income from corporate taxes, with a further EUR hundreds of millions less in excise duties. Madam Minister, the problem is of course also with your political family, because you are struggling with a proposal that might make the company car system even more attractive, given the 100% tax deductibility in the future, which may lead to no car being taken off the road. We certainly look forward with great interest to the progress of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u61	Madam President, Madam Secretary, you are a diligent tweeter. On 4 May, following the new rise in the CO2 price, you tweeted: "The revenues from the sale of allowances flow back to the Member States. The federal government wants to conclude a new cooperation agreement for COP26 in Glasgow, so that the funds are available for, among other things, climate investment by the various governments. The current cooperation agreement, dated 12 February 2018, laid down the modalities for the national implementation of the Belgian climate and energy objectives for the period 2013-2020. This cooperation agreement also regulates the intra-Belgian distribution of the proceeds from auctioning of allowances. Two years ago, the EU ETS had already raised more than EUR 1 billion for Belgium since it was launched in 2013. There is a fixed key. The federal share is rather limited, i.e. 9% to 10% of the revenue. Although the cooperation agreement only contains agreements for the 2013-2020 trading period, some sources suggest that it was actually concluded for an indefinite period. In April 2021, the National Climate Commission and the Energy Consultation between the Federal State and the Regions, ENOVER, adopted their first joint report on the implementation of the Burden Sharing Agreement. Madam Minister, how exactly do you see the need for a new cooperation agreement on the issue of the proceeds of auctioning allowances? Which changes do you think should be made? Are there any discussions on this within ENOVER and the National Climate Commission? When is political consultation scheduled? The increase in CO2 prices is not insignificant. You may think it's fantastic, but consumers with variable contracts will feel it and they think it's less fantastic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u62	Mr Ravyts, it is an important and urgent dossier, and we agree with that. The previous cooperation agreement covered the period 2013 to 2020, both for the allocation of objectives and for auction revenues. This is confirmed in several places in the Agreement, in particular in Article 39 which states that the distribution of auction revenues according to the percentages indicated relates only to revenues from 2013 to 2020. It is therefore not intended that this provision should be applied de facto after that period. It cannot be used as a basis for the allocation of revenue from 1 January 2021. Hence the need for a new cooperation agreement for the period 2021-2030, which should not only allow the distribution of auction revenues in this way, but should also establish a broader framework for setting the objectives and rules for monitoring compliance and compliance with the objectives by all signatory parties. Since the beginning of this year, the Walloon Presidency of the National Climate Commission has held several bilateral meetings with each of the parties to examine how to proceed. Each of the parties expressed their willingness to engage in an intensive dialogue to return to the NKC with proposals for a political agreement. All parties agreed on the objective of reaching a political agreement for COP26 in Glasgow in November 2021. A first joint plenary session of the NKC and ENOVER-CONCERE is scheduled for 21 May. At this meeting, the president of the NKC is expected to report on the results of the bilateral consultations, to determine the next steps in the process and the timetable needed to draw up the contours of an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u63	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Yeah, I'm a little early. It is not yet 21 May, but we will have to work quickly if we want to reach a political agreement on this before the COP. This is a very important matter. You know that in Flanders, especially among my progressive colleagues, there is a great deal of fuss about the compensation mechanism for high-intensive companies that was included in the Flemish Climate Fund with regard to energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u64	Madam President, Minister, in recent years many projects involving different CO2 capture and storage techniques have been developed in Europe. For example, the "Porthos" project which mobilises both the port authority of the port of Rotterdam and several companies – the setting up of a similar project in the port of Antwerp is currently being studied – or the "Longship" project decided by the Norwegian government. CO2 capture and storage cover a range of processes that may require improvements in order to be truly effective. In your policy note, you mentioned the need to "pay attention to innovative renewable energies for the capture, reuse and storage of CO2". In this regard, you mentioned your willingness to "consult the Minister of Energy on how we can set up pilot projects for this purpose and put in place a regulatory framework to accelerate these innovations". Can we have your feedback on this, as well as on the initiatives undertaken and envisaged? Have any contacts with your relevant regional colleges been made in this regard? If so, can we obtain information in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u65	Madam President, Mr Senesael, achieving climate neutrality in 2050 will require particularly important efforts in all sectors. In the construction, transport and electricity production sectors, we must aim for zero or virtually zero emissions in the long term. On the other hand, we know that, in order to decarbonize the industry completely, we will have to resort, at the end of the chain, to a potentially significant amount of carbon capture. From this perspective, I look forward to developing projects in the world and at home, while at the same time paying attention to how they take or take into account the risks associated with these technologies. The Belgian Recovery and Resilience Plan has two components related to CO2 capture, reuse and storage. On the one hand, the federal government, in cooperation with the regional authorities, will take steps to allow for a legislative review, in order to create a more elaborate framework for the H2 and CO2 markets. On the other hand, there is an investment project of €95 million for the development of a first CO2 transmission network of some 100-160 km and terminal units in the main industrial hubs of Flanders: Antwerp and Ghent and Wallonia: Hainaut, Liège and the valleys of the Sambre and Meuse. To this end, existing unused natural gas infrastructures will be adapted to the extent possible. As regards these matters, my colleague Tinne Van der Straeten commissioned a study in Deloitte, in close cooperation with the Energy DG of the SPF Economy. The results of this study on the future of gas in the context of a climate neutral Belgium will be presented on 18 May. The conclusions will certainly lead to further reflections and discussions within the CNC (National Climate Commission) and CONCER (Concertation between the Federal State and the Regions) consultation bodies. Let me stress that it should not be forgotten that, in the long term, the CCUS can only offer a very limited response to the challenge of climate neutrality by 2050 and that it should only be deployed in sectors difficult to decarbonise completely! In order to achieve the transition to climate neutrality, we must first strive to eliminate the use of fossil fuels in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are in line with your general policy statement. I am also pleased to hear the results of the study carried out by your colleague on 18 May to examine the conclusions on the one hand and the actions that can be taken on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u67	Madam President, Minister, cryptocurrency requires the permanent operation of a large number of computer processors, which involves considerable electricity consumption. In particular, Cambridge University estimated that electricity consumption in a country such as Belgium was equivalent to 52.82 % of that in bitcoin. Minister, can we get you back on this issue? Are related initiatives envisaged, particularly at European and international level? The European Central Bank recently published a report on the possible creation of a European digital currency inspired by cryptocurrency. One of the contributions of this currency could be to reduce the carbon footprint of the monetary and payment system currently employed in Europe. Note, however, the lack of information mentioned on the nature of the technology that could be used. Can we have your point of view on this project and its possible climate impacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u68	Madam President, Mr Seneseal, cryptocurrency is undergoing a very energy-intensive mining process. It is necessary to imagine thousands of people on Earth, constantly running their computers to mine some cryptocurrency, and hope for a reward. A 2019 study reaches a theoretical maximum of half the current global energy consumption if everyone starts mining bitcoin with current equipment. In practice, the intensity of mining depends on the value of the cryptocurrency in question, the price of electricity and the energy performance of the computers used. The expected gain must be positive. In high-value episodes of the target cryptocurrency, it is likely that more energy is used for its mining. Mining is also expected to decrease over time. That being said, the principle of current cryptocurrency poses a certain environmental problem. Some new cryptocurrency in the market is based on different consensus, for example, on bitcoin, and in principle less energy-intensive. There is therefore a potential for reducing the energy footprint of this type of currency. A priori, I do not see what a cryptocurrency could bring to the environment more than conventional electronic money. The latter also has an energy footprint of another order than the energy footprint of the manufacture of banknotes and coins, which, in turn, decreases with the decrease of this means of payment. I suggest you, Mr Senesael, also ask your question to my colleague Mathieu Michel, who is in charge of digital technology, or even to the Finance Minister Van Peteghem, about the technology that would be used by the European Central Bank. As I had responded in more detail to a written question from Mr. Burton on the same subject, I propose to attach to this answer the one I had given him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and, above all, for your interest in it. This theme is not necessarily the most addressed when it comes to climate impact. You clearly specify the energy-intensive nature of cryptocurrencies, which are problematic from an environmental point of view. You also indicated the potential to reduce their energy footprint. I will not fail to read your answer to my colleague's written question or to turn to Finance Minister Van Peteghem and Secretary of State Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u70	Madam Minister, on 13 April 2021, the NGO ClientEarth initiated a legal action against the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) before the Brussels Court of First Instance. More specifically, ClientEarth asked the court to question the European Court of Justice on the legality of the European Central Bank's buy-back programme in which the BNB participates. This programme is accused of promoting the sometimes very polluting or fossil-fuel-related activities of very large companies. It would violate the obligation to support the Union's economic policies – including those relating to the fight against climate change – supported by the European Treaties. Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue of the financial sector's responsibility for climate issues? Can we obtain information on the related measures currently in force in Belgium? In your policy note, you mentioned your willingness to help the financial sector take fully into account the transition to climate neutrality and the existence of climate risks in their decision-making processes. You also mentioned your wish to discuss with the Minister of Finance the establishment of a green finance strategy and action plan that will help the financial sector play its role by aligning financial flows with your climate goals and ensuring that financial actors take climate risks into account in their decision-making. Can we be informed of the progress made or envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u71	Mr Senesael, the financial sector must, like all sectors, align its activities with the sustainable transition and become a major player in the fight against the climate crisis. Sustainable financing policy is mainly decided at European level, including the Regulation on the disclosure of sustainability-related information in the financial services sector, which has been in force since 10 March 2021. This Regulation concerns, inter alia, banks, insurers, asset managers and investment firms offering financial products and services in the European Union. As a result, they are now subject to sustainability disclosure obligations. Of course, the role of government, alongside the private sector, should not be underestimated either. That is why my administration, in collaboration with Minister Van Peteghem, launched the initiative to develop a Belgian green financing strategy. The policy options on which the strategy will be based are being developed with the support of the European Commission. Due to the importance of such a strategy, Belgium will receive no less than EUR 350 000 of indirect support for this mission. Here we focus on greening financial flows, both private and public. The strategy will be developed through participatory processes, where all parties with an interest in such a strategy will be heard. We are currently in the initial phase. The terms of reference are almost finalized. By the end of June at the latest, a consultant should be appointed for this task. The entire mission will take approximately 18 months and is expected to be completed by the last quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u72	Minister, thank you for your attention to my question. I would like to retain two elements that I believe are essential and of paramount importance. On the one hand, you argue that the financial sector is a major player in the fight against global warming. I welcome this awareness and the identification and implementation of the strategy contained in your policy note. On the other hand, I am pleased to see the follow-up of the Belgian strategic development of green financing that you and your colleague are setting up. Of course, we will not fail to follow closely the development of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u73	Madam President, Madame de Laveleye, masks for the general public have become an essential link on a global scale in the fight against the spread of the covid-19 virus. Various kinds and forms of masks are now available, including reusable fabric masks, surgical masks and personal protective equipment such as FFP2 masks. Some of these masks actually prove to be treated with biocides in order to reduce the risk of viral and/or bacterial contamination via the mask, to prolong the life of these masks or to avoid unpleasant odours. A relatively new theory used for this purpose is that of nanoparticles based on silver, titanium dioxide and copper. The first two substances cited were found in the fabric masks of the Avrox brand. Following an opinion of the Higher Council of Health, these masks are no longer distributed. Their use is not recommended because of their potential health toxicity in the event of inhalation. It is also true that on April 2, 2021, the Canadian Health Service issued a warning for graphene-treated masks, which is also a biocide. Initial analyses of scientific expertise in Canada show that the inhalation of particulate matter could be toxic to the lungs in experimental animals. In addition to the above nanoparticles, another biocidal tissue mask called "polyhexanide" or PHMB is currently being withdrawn from the market due to its health toxicity. Your question about the potential impact on the environment is relevant. Firstly, the very principle of a single-use mask poses a problem for the environment in view of the problem of waste. Apart from the pollution caused by its accidental dispersion directly in nature, there is the fact that the principle of linear economy is not sustainable in the long term. There is also the problem of masks treated with biocides. For many of the biocides I mentioned, any exposure has a negative impact on the environment. It is primarily aquatic organisms that appear to be particularly sensitive to these toxic effects. However, we do not yet have sufficient health or ecotoxicity data for nanoparticle-treated masks. Uncertainties remain with respect to actual exposure when these masks are used, as well as with respect to potential adverse effects to humans or the environment that may result from their cleaning or treatment as waste. It is clear that this issue needs to be followed up very strictly. Several services cooperate constructively on this relatively new issue. Further analyses and inspections are under way. One of the critical factors in this case is that European biocidal legislation has its limits. Although the procedure for assessing certain biocides such as silver nanoparticles in Avrox masks is still under way at European level, the strict European rules allow for their use in the meantime. Our Belgian legislation also has shortcomings. As regards nanoparticles specifically, the current legislative framework is based on the Royal Decree of 27 May 2014 on the placing on the market of nanoparticle manufactured substances. However, it appears that the last part of this order concerning the registration of articles treated with nanoparticles did not come into force during the previous legislature. We are currently looking at an extension of the royal decree. Based on the precautionary principle and in line with our One Health vision, we recommend caution with respect to biocide-treated masks, such as nanoparticles. Health and the environment are inextricably linked. It is therefore necessary to continue and finalize the studies in order to arrive at a definitive judgement on the safety of the nanoparticle masks that have been examined. To repeat the conclusion of the Higher Council of Health in its opinion formulated at the end of February, it is necessary to consider whether biocidal treatment of oral masks is really necessary. This obviously does not remove the fact that wearing the mask remains highly recommended in the fight against covid-19. Of course, I share my concerns in these matters with my colleague Frank Vandenboucke and together we are following the matter very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u74	Minister, thank you very much for your detailed answer. I would point out that Mr Vandenbroucke has been asked about the direct impacts on human health. A few replica elements. First, wearing the mask is obvious to fight covid-19. There's no doubt. It is important to remember that there is no question of the approach to the masks of caregivers. It is also important to know that the government is working on a very demanding approach to the fabric masks that most of us use. As far as the purely environmental aspect is concerned, I very much appreciate the fact that the government is following the precautionary principle. On many other issues, we hope that this will be done, in particular, following the recommendations of our administrations, for example, for certain pesticides. I will be quick to ask Mr. Clarinval the question. It is very reassuring to see that the government has followed the precautionary principle and to hear that research is increasing to better understand the impacts on our health and ecosystems. When we face new types of behaviour or new technologies to protect ourselves, we may suspect that impact analysis takes time. I also hear that at legislative level there are things to be done both at Belgian and European level. Madam Minister, you have all of this in your hands. We will be interested to see the progress in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u75	Mr Bombled, last Tuesday, I met for the first time with Chilean Environment Minister Carolina Schmidt. The exchange was brief, but constructive. We focused on the issue of climate change and the circular economy, as well as the relationship between the two issues. The circular economy is essential for achieving the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. In our efforts to reduce emissions, the emphasis is on direct energy production and consumption. However, greenhouse gas emissions from the production of consumer goods, construction materials and agriculture also deserve our attention. Indeed, as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation demonstrates, while the transition to renewable energy would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55%, the remaining 45% of emissions depend primarily on our consumption and production patterns of our food. The circular economy plays a crucial role in these 45%. For this reason, Chile has included it in its recent nationally determined contribution of a long-term low-emission strategy. The circular economy has enormous social, climate and environmental potential. Together with Minister Schmidt, we have agreed to maintain dialogue and to work together to ensure that this concept emerges from its niche and that its potential is fully grasped. As stated in my political note and in the federal government agreement, I am developing, with my colleague from the Dermagne Economy, and in consultation with the federated entities, a federal action plan for the circular economy, in order to significantly reduce the use of raw materials and the footprint of materials in production and consumption. This plan refers explicitly to the relationship between the circular economy and the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is always fruitful to draw lessons from policies in other countries, although not everything can be transposed. In your policy note, you said that the Green Pact, its Action Plan for a circular economy and the forthcoming European initiative on sustainable products were the main basis for the actions you planned to take in relation to products under this legislative term. The transition from a linear to a circular economy will require public investment. It is with great interest that we will discover your action plan for the circular economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u77	Dear colleague, as the law provides, the draft of the Federal Sustainable Development Plan has been sent to the federated entities. An opinion was requested from the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. In addition to this, the preliminary draft was also sent to other federal councils such as the Central Economic Council, the National Labour Council, the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs and the Special Consumer Advisory Commission. I have also sent the preliminary draft to organisations representing groups of citizens with little or no representation in traditional bodies, especially when it comes to sustainable development. The consultation will be closed on 8 June for all stakeholders. It should also be noted that opinions, suggestions and remarks on the preliminary draft will be forwarded to the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, the ICSD secretariat. It is on the basis of the advice received that the ICESD will rework the preliminary draft, in order to forward a new draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan to the government, which will discuss it with all government ministers and adopt the final plan by October 2021, as provided for in the Act. With regard to the study on the impact of climate policies, the federal government had two studies carried out respectively in 2015 by the consortium of study offices Vito and Conotech, and in 2017 by ICEDD - TMLeuven - TNO - Gauze(?), to assist it in meeting its reporting requirements for estimating non-TSS emission reductions, federal policies and measures. At the end of 2020, a new contract was launched for the updating of this data and was awarded to the consortium ICEDD-Vito-TMLeuven and Gauze(?). There were two components to this contract. The first is to update the impact assessment of existing federal policies and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The second component consists of technical support for the development of a methodology for the Federal GPAs of the National Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030. The final report of the first part is due in June. The call for consultants under the second strand will continue in the second half of 2021. Finally, in order to achieve consistent policies, the Federal Sustainable Development Plan will complement the many thematic plans that exist or will exist in the future, including the federal contribution of the National Energy-Climate Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u78	Minister, thank you for your full answer. If the draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan identifies federal priorities on environmental or socio-economic issues, it will also coordinate them with the equivalent plans of the three regions of the country. Some policies could counter each other and have unanticipated negative effects. I think it is important to avoid that. It is therefore important that sustainable development be addressed in a cross-cutting approach and with a long-term vision, in order to avoid these possible negative effects. The good intentions contained in the preliminary draft are all commendable. It will also be important to continuously assess the proposed actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u79	Questions No 55017541C, No 55017543C and No 55017544C by Mr Bert Wollants are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u80	Madam Minister, a survey of 6,000 Limburgers showed that 88 percent of them were in favour of the introduction of deposit funds. I don't know a lot of measures that are so popular. In the meantime, experience has been gained in 40 countries and companies such as Coca Cola have already indicated their willingness to cooperate. Yet there is no deposit in our country yet. Brussels and Wallonia have it in their coalition agreement and Flanders says it wants to do further research. In my view, that money has been thrown away because we know that the system is working, all we need is some political courage. Madam Minister, I am taking a federal detour and coming to you because it says in the government agreement: 'It is being examined, in consultation with the Länder and the sector concerned, whether the incorporation of a deposit scheme into the packaging levy is desirable. Madam Secretary, has there been any consultation on this matter? How can the federal level put some extra pressure on the boiler to quickly arrive at a deposit scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u81	Mr Verduyckt, the federal government can act in two ways, through the law on product standards, for which I am competent and through an adjustment of the tax system, for which Minister Van Peteghem is competent. The Product Standards Act makes it possible to take measures to promote re-use, for example by establishing measures to ensure that packaging can be technically reused. I refer to the current proposal on the washing of deposit bottles. The introduction of deposit money on aluminium cans has the purpose of collecting waste and not the reuse. Therefore, it falls within the competence of the federated entities. The dossier is also part of a broader policy of waste reduction and resource efficiency. As indicated in my policy paper and the federal government agreement, I am currently working together with Minister Dermagne and in coordination with the Länder to develop a federal circular economy action plan to significantly reduce the use of raw materials and the material footprint in production and consumption. Efforts are being made to remove legislative and financial barriers, product standardisation and the extension of product life through, inter alia, re-use. As part of the preparation of this plan, we will bring the actors concerned together to define the priorities, the role of each, the actions to be taken and a timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u82	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, you are paving the way, but it is still up to the regions to make such imports possible. With this question I would also like to take the floor on behalf of 6,000 Limburgers who say: let us go for this. You say: we are doing our best, but in the end the regions will have to take the final step. I am convinced that Flanders' research will also prove that. I wonder how this story will end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u83	Madam Minister, for the first time, the price of a tonne of CO2 in the European Emissions Trading System (ETS) has rounded the cape of EUR 50. Those prices continue to rise. We have just talked about the bitcoin, the price of which is constantly rising. In fact, this is a scandalous system when we look at its climate impact. It is therefore a good thing that we in the committee should discuss scientific progress on bitcoin and how we deal with it, because that is actually scandalous. It is a historic moment when the cape of 50 euros is rounded up in the ETS system. That is a good thing. Experts have the impression that the system is only beginning to have a real impact, so I take the time to ask you a few questions about this, Madam Secretary. How do you view the sharp rise in the ETS price? What is your expectation in the file? I know this may be a difficult question. There is also talk of extending the mechanism. Can you give your view on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u84	Mr Verduyckt, the main reasons for the price increase is the increase in the European reduction target to minus 55%. In order to achieve this objective, we will need relatively more expensive technologies to achieve profound reductions in, for example, industry or aviation. This is reflected in the price of emission allowances, but it can of course also fall again, for example in the case of reductions in technology or changes in the economic situation. In addition, the price increase may result from the operation of the EU ETS's allowance cancellation mechanism, which I will address to Mr Wollants' question, or even from the influx of investors who see the rights as an investment instrument. For example, they see it as a protection against inflation that goes hand in hand with the boom. This means potentially higher emissions from industry. In the coming months, we will have more studies to explain the recent price increases. I notice that the EU ETS even gets the columns of investment advisors in Het Laatste Nieuws. However, I would like to strongly warn against considering this market as an investment product. The rules can change at any time, especially in the coming years, due to political decisions and hence the prices of allowances. Therefore, I do not want to comment on the future price of emission allowances, just because it is so closely linked to political decisions. What matters to me is that the EU ETS does what it serves to do, namely to achieve emission reductions in a cost-effective manner without undesirable economic or social impacts. In itself, it is difficult to determine exactly which technology becomes competitive at a price of EUR 50 per tonne, because often the price ratio between fossil fuels also counts and the CO2 price can even have an impact on it. For example, almost all brown and coal plants are priced out of the market at the current CO2 price at the current ratio between the price of gas and coal. That makes it impossible for coal plants to run or run at a loss. Many investments in energy saving in industry are becoming profitable. Even expensive technology, such as CO2 capture, for example pure CO2 streams, such as ammonia production, come within range. A very often forgotten positive effect is that renewable energy becomes more competitive or that the necessary subsidies for renewable energy, which count on a market price or an uneconomic summit, are reduced. As far as your last question is concerned, we have recently taken a position at the federal level, on my initiative, on the broad lines of the European Fit for 55 package. The federal government is open to a carbon border tax which is in line with WTO rules and which also contains sufficient guarantees that the exporting industries in industry are not affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u85	Madam President, Minister, I agree with you when you say that it is not the intention of this system to regard ETS as an investment product. The aim of this system is to ensure that the polluter pays. I just heard the colleague of Flemish Interest say that people don't like it when there is an impact on their consumption. That is, of course, the intention of this system, namely that both the consumer and the producer should consider changing their behaviour. You also know how I feel about carbon taxes. We need those systems. You say that it is difficult to predict this and that you do not dare to make statements about it. All understanding of that, that was not the most obvious question either. Finally, as far as the carbon border levy is concerned, I think there is a very fair component in it. Although I know that in a free market, as we have always known it, it is not obvious, yet I hope that Europe will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u86	Madam Minister, I am kicking in an open door when I say that the circular economy is close to the Minister's heart. You have just referred to it, and I understand from your colleague, Mr Dermagne, that you are working on the action plan. I look forward to that. I've noticed an investigation report from the sector itself. As far as small household appliances are concerned, which are outside the legal guarantee of two years, it is stated that there is hardly any repair market in our country. Then we'll know what happens to it. The devices are thrown away. Nevertheless, it appears that there is a lot of work to be organized in the sector. These are two findings which contradict each other, but which are particularly regrettable. The report presented a number of suggestions that could help to provide additional input. This includes extending the legal guarantee, the repair score, the system that exists in France. Mr Dermagne was very enthusiastic about this in relation to my question. So I don't know if this is coming. Another suggestion is a VAT reduction for the repair of electrical appliances. I think there are some policy instruments to be devised to give an extra boost. How do you look at that? What are you gonna do with this? When can we expect the action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u87	As you correctly point out, I am currently working with Minister Dermagne and in coordination with the Länder on a federal circular economy action plan, in order to significantly reduce the use of raw materials and the ecological footprint in production and consumption. This plan will be launched later this year. The transition to a circular economy requires much more than recycling raw materials. It is also about value creation and preservation, different design, more emphasis on reuse and recovery and new business models. With the federal action plan, we focus on this, among other things, by removing legislative and financial barriers, such as the rules on ownership to support leasing and sharing. It also concerns the extension of product life and a coherent production policy through the Product Standards Act, whereby circular products and services become the standard and our consumption patterns change so that waste is avoided in advance. Finally, it is important to think about circularity at the design stage, since 80% of the environmental impact of a product is determined at the design stage. For example, EU eco-design legislation sets production-specific standards so that products on the EU market work well, are sustainable and reusable, easy to repair and poison-free. They should also be able to be updated or recycled, contain recycled materials and be resource and energy efficient. Under the Product Standards Act, we can introduce legislation similar to the repair index developed in France and entered into force on 1 January 2021 for five product categories. Such a repair index is set out in the future federal circular economy action plan. If we want to focus entirely on the French model, a royal decision can be adopted next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u88	Madam Secretary, in order for us to understand each other properly, is a repair index the same as a repair code? You're nodding. I look forward to the action plan and I look forward to discussing it with you. This is particularly important not only for employment, but also because we absolutely need it. Today we live in a society where we throw everything away, and that must be absolutely different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u89	Questions Nos 55017594C and 55017600C by Mrs Greet Daems are postponed. Question No 55017591C by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u90	My final question concerns the principle of planned aging. That is a very unfair commercial practice. As a socialist, I have nothing against a free market, yet the government has to intervene occasionally. The bill on dormant energy contracts, which is seen as a free market, creates for itself certain commercial practices that are absolutely not desirable. The same applies to the planned ageing. Mr Michel has also addressed this in his policy paper. You must have been triggered by that, too. So how do we deal with that? This can either be banned or it is a way of seeking incentives so that consumers can think about making the production process more sustainable. I don't have a solution. Maybe you do. Can you tell me more about your approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u91	Thank you for your question, which clearly illustrates the challenges facing our society to create a more circular and sustainable society. The concept of planned ageing reveals a method whereby the normal life of a product is deliberately shortened at the design stage. It is therefore important to extend the lifespan of products. The main obstacle to life extension is the limited possibility of repair. I have already said that I am currently working with Minister Dermagne on a federal circular economy action plan to significantly reduce the use of raw materials and the footprint of materials in production and consumption. That plan will be launched later this year. With the federal action plan, we are focusing on the fight against planned aging by focusing on production standardisation and the extension of the lifespan of products. It is important to think about circularity at the design stage, as I said, since 80% of the environmental impact of a product is determined at the design stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u92	Madam Minister, many people share my indignation, but as consumers they often feel ignorant or powerless. Many consumers together can sometimes be powerful, but some issues are too complex to be left to consumers alone or to the market alone. That is why people rely on politics for such matters, in this case on you and Minister Dermagne and your action plan. I understand that I would like to subscribe to the action plans so that I can find out how you are dealing with this. I'll get back to you. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic470x.u93	I thank the Minister and the Members of Parliament for their presence.
