ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.23 p.m. and chaired by Ms. Eliane Tillieux, Chair. The meeting was opened at 14.23 a.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u3	Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Alexander De Croo, Frank Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 November 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 November 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u5	I have received amendments to the bill to make justice more humane, faster and firmer, No. 2175/1. I have received amendments to the draft law to make justice more human, faster and more criminal, No. 2175/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 November 2021, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 November 2021, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u6	Prime Minister, let's have a true speech. The evolution of the epidemic is very, very bad and the health care sector is under maximum pressure. Last week's Codeco took a number of decisions but far too late and too lightly about the mask, the ventilation that is still in minor mode, testing and tracing, always and again overtaken by events. In addition, we witnessed a cacophony between the various ministers who spoke. Anyway, the picture couldn't be any worse. Doing nothing and waiting is not an option, you must act. But how? First by restraining the virus by wearing the mask, applying it in a clear and strong way, in all closed places. The same applies to a ventilation strategy that would finally meet the needs. But an emergency seems to me to be important: to avoid as quickly as possible a large number of hospitalizations by re-enhancing vaccine effectiveness. This can be done both by immunizing non-vaccinated people and, above all, by advancing the injection of a booster dose, i.e., a third dose, to the 3 million people over 45 years of age who are already more than six months old, or some to more than nine months old, of their second dose of vaccine. These people, Prime Minister, today have largely and significantly reduced immunity and vaccine effectiveness. A dose of booster vaccine must be administered as quickly as possible, and this will allow them to restore vaccine effectiveness very quickly within a week. This will help to avoid a large number of hospitalizations in a very short period of time. Will you hold a Codeco quickly for (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you do not want to make some records. However, on Monday night, we were ticking off 25,000 infections. Those numbers have an effect on people. They're getting scared, the pressure on the hospitals is getting sky high. Above all, we ask ourselves the question: what now, with the fourth wave? It is clear that without vaccines, the problem would have been much greater. A third of the hospital admissions we could have avoided by having us all vaccinated. Meanwhile, more people die every day from corona. There are also people who are working on something else, wondering how they can make money from the situation, how they can undermine security measures. Dozens of offers for forged QR codes are circulating on social media. There are corona parties to get consciously ill. And there's even a doctor who just sells 2,000 fake covid safe tickets. Unfortunately, there are still a number of hotel-restaurant exploiters who refuse to check the coronapas. Minister, many of us are sticking to the measures. They give up part of their freedom when they're tanning. They've been vaccinated. Meanwhile, the defense line of CST, masks, vaccines and distance is being undermined. That is unacceptable, as far as we are concerned. That needs to be dealt with hard. There are even parties in this hemisphere that call on people to break the rules. A Member of Parliament of the Flemish Interest with a cardboard board (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the curves are currently following the most pessimistic scenarios. A few weeks ago, 500 beds on intensive care were called the red line. Today we read that in December it would be 1,200 beds on intensive care. That's very bad news. That means that only 600 beds on those intensive cares would be free for people with a heart attack, stroke, accident or other urgent care. This is also a problem because the domino effect of delayed care since March last year has made this non-urgent care urgent. In addition, our care staff fails because they are sick themselves, because they have to be quarantined or because they have to drop out overtired. Prime Minister, Minister, all the alarm bells are in the red again. For almost two years we have been taking measures to prevent that care system from crashing and yet we are back in business again. Domus Medica has been saying it for a few weeks: we have too many infections, we can't wait any longer, we have to intervene now to save care. I read on several sites that the Consultation Committee meets early. Is that right? Are you willing to do whatever it takes to prevent an implosion of the care system now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, we are in the fourth wave and I dare not say that we will be able to avoid a fifth or sixth wave. The question we need to answer now is no longer just about fighting that fourth peak. On the contrary, we must ensure that our country is ready to catch future waves and prepare for pandemics in the future. Too often we say that we have to learn to live with the virus: wash hands, keep your distance and wear mouth masks. Our society has absorbed these rules very well, but now we are being looked at. Health care is a central task of the government and it is clear that we will have to do more than what is being done today. We need more than just putting sandbags in a flood, we need more than just imposing restrictions on freedom. What our country really needs is a structural plan for health care. The aim of our group is no longer simply to achieve the realm of freedom, but to ensure that care can be provided, including in a crisis system. This requires a long-term vision. I know you can't change the concerns of one day, but take a first step. Announce at least that you intend to ensure its care and continuity. Let us talk about more than just freedom-limiting measures. Step by step, we need to go to a strategy shift. My question is therefore very specific. How do you see the concern evolve in the coming years? Are there any discussions with the sector to prepare a re-organisation of the hospital landscape?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u10	Madam President, Minister, we look forward to seeing you here. This is the sign that everyone is today stigmatized by this crisis that has not ended, which has now lasted for a year and a half. I believe, however, that it has been managed in a remarkable way by the country, by the regional bodies, by all the actors who have been able to contribute to the management of this crisis. But that doesn't end. The numbers are creeping up. This is extremely alarming. There is obviously a need to deal with this in a very fine way in order to try to avoid falling back into all the procedures that we have known, lockdown, of everything that has made life completely stop for several weeks. Of course, we are very attentive to this appalling situation. Everyone's under pressure. You walk around the street, you're at work or in the family, it's all about this: what's going to happen? It is true that today the communication is not clear. We see that some people speak on behalf of what group we don't know. But fortunately, there is a glimmer of hope: it is vaccination. Mr Minister, I think we need to put the package on vaccination so that the third dose, this booster, as it is called, is widespread in society. Every effort must be made to convince the last reluctant. We know that these are the most difficult to convince, but we must make significant progress on this vaccination. There is a need for clear, precise, and comprehensive communication. It is not normal to see, for example, some municipalities taking attitudes quite contrary to those of neighbouring municipalities. The citizen is no longer there. There is a need for a globalisation of measures. That is what the governors have asked for. I think they called you around the table to get something clear and global. Minister, what will you do to that effect? When will this meeting be held?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u11	Gentlemen ministers, society cracks, concerns cracks. Many young families are again twisted between homework and homeschool. The third shot was overtaken by the fourth wave. That third shot should have been here by now. That's what was called for. We know today that that fourth wave probably won't be the last. Policies and politicians will have to be forward-looking and provide answers: answers such as the third prick, to which the Flemish government and certain experts had called. But at that time, you felt it was more important to vaccinate in the Third World than in the Third Age. Now the Christmas lights reappear in the street. There will be another Consultation Committee on the agenda tomorrow. That's what makes people distraught. It's very heavy for a lot of people, they think it's time again. The time for slogans, gentlemen ministers, must be over. In addition to the care, the weaker and the third age, we must ensure that our teachers are vaccinated. Can you make sure our teachers get that shot by the end of the year? Today, the EEA has also approved the vaccine for children. What do you think of that? Is that part of your strategy? Will you provide such a prick for children? You will purchase virus inhibitors so that (...)?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the pandemic figures are again very critical. We find ourselves in the same curves as we did a year ago. These are exactly the same trends except one. This is the death curve. And we still have to remember that it's because of the vaccine. Nevertheless, the pressure on our health care system remains untenable. Prime Minister, Minister, I know that you will take the necessary steps very quickly, measures that will not be easy but that we will support to reverse this trend. At the same time, this weekend, 35,000 people marched through the streets. Their messages were very diverse but, behind all these messages, there is a constant: it is fatigue, fear, incomprehension and anger because this pandemic is taking place and will last a long time. In addition to the crisis measures that will be taken in the coming days, I would like to return with you to three concerns. The first is international solidarity. We will not be immune to another variant until the whole world is vaccinated. Europe has chosen to support mainly voluntary collaboration with the pharmaceutical sector, but it must be noted that this is a wish and that it is not a reality. Prime Minister, Minister, what voice will Belgium bring via Europe to the next Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in five days' time? The second is the need to provide opportunities for the health care sector. A comprehensive plan for the attractiveness of the nursing profession is on the table. He's ready. It needs to be given tenable deadlines and be able to present it to staff now and not in January. My last request, I'd rather address it to my colleagues. I strongly advocate that we should have a debate in Parliament on the issue of the vaccination obligation. This is not one measure among the others. It's not a rhetorical question. This is a real social debate (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u13	Madam President, Members of the Chamber, allow me to begin with a question from the healthcare sector that was asked yesterday by the Antwerp Hospital Network. His message was that everyone would adhere to the rules, restrict contacts, use mouth masks, ventilate and be tested for complaints. Those are the rules we agreed with all governments together during the previous Consultative Committee. However, measures do not mean anything if they are not complied with. The obligation to telework has no effect if a large proportion of people do not comply with that obligation. The question of limiting contacts has little impact, if a large part of the population does not comply with that demand, so let me start with the following as the first message. Ensure that the measures are followed. I thank those who have done so today and have done so in the past few months. One of the things we learned during the current crisis is that our personal behaviour has an influence. More even, if we all change our behavior together, we all turn the curve together. We have done this several times over the past two years. The vaccine, the wearing of the mask and the physical distance are the most powerful weapons we have. It is clear today that these weapons will have to be used for some time. It will therefore be necessary to continue to exercise some caution in the fall and winter of the coming year. That's one of the things we've learned in the weeks that have passed. Today it is important to make clear which compass we use to make decisions. During the last wave we mainly looked at the infections. Today it is clear that the compass must be the capacity utilisation on intensive care. The reason we are looking less at infections today is the vaccine that has broken the direct link between infection and hospitalization. Because 90% of adults in our country have been vaccinated, we have managed to break that direct link. Today, however, the capacity utilisation rate on intensive care is worse than in the most negative scenario presented by the experts last week, and then we need to take action. I therefore decided to convene tomorrow the Consultative Committee to evaluate with the various governments the situation we are in today. In doing so, we will have to work on three dimensions. First and foremost, to accelerate vaccination, and especially the booster. That remains the best protection and the most fundamental thing we can do. Secondly, we need to consider how we can support care. In the first line the pressure is insanely high. In our hospitals, the pressure is very high. We will examine with the Minister of Health what measures we can take to minimise the pressure and, for example, to ensure that the administrative burden is as low as possible. Thirdly, we will have to look at a package of measures, the so-called non-medical interventions. They'll be different than in previous waves. Contrary to previous waves, we see that many people have been vaccinated today. We will also have to look at support measures. Let us be clear: we will leave no one behind. If we take action, it will require an effort from all of us to comply with it. Announced measures will have no effect if we do not respect them all. Today, we see that the countries with the most vaccinations suffer less than the others. This is the best evidence of vaccine effectiveness. Last year, the Covid-19 unfortunately killed 20,000 people in our country. This year, it's three times less despite the fact that the virus is three times more powerful. This shows that vaccination helps us a lot. However, additional precautions are still needed. That's what we decided last week and that's what we're going to discuss tomorrow morning. We have had to endure several trials over the last few months. We have received several news that was worse than hoped. We have had to change our strategy several times and be flexible in relation to a situation that was different than expected. Let us not forget: we are not experiencing easy moments today, but we have all the means in our hands, vaccines, mouth masks and, above all, our behaviour and our solidarity, to get through again; I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with a very difficult situation, which no longer tolerates any delay. I will therefore call on the Conciliation Committee tomorrow for strong measures, which will also be taken immediately. There's no time to lose. Waiting means more trouble. That is, of course, a disappointing message. We will focus on vaccination. The vaccines work extremely well against hospitalisation and still protect very, very well against serious covid, but with a booster one is even better protected and infections are even more slowed down. It is estimated that we have given 1,250,000 people booster vaccination at the moment, but they need to be followed very quickly by large groups of people. The practical organisation of this will be on the verge of meeting with the regional health ministers on Saturday. I am also pleased that there is a green light for the vaccination of children, because I think we should do so and include it in our planning. We must ensure that tests are still carried out, but in a way that allows the general practitioners to stand up. We have proposals for this, which we will discuss over the next few hours and days. We must do all we can, with all the technology and technology available, so that tests can be carried out, while at the same time the general practitioners can continue to do their job. We need to restrict the circulation of the virus. There are far too many infections. The vaccines are an excellent umbrella, but in a hurricane one also gets wet under an excellent umbrella. Our measures will have to be strong and broad enough in all sectors. Yes, we will have to take additional measures in education. Yes, in leisure life we will have to take additional measures. Yeah, in professional life, we're gonna have to take extra measures. We will have to take additional measures everywhere. We will have to limit or even stop the most risky activities. We must not point to each other or blame a sector or group. Haven't we understood by now that we're all in the same boat? We'll have to do it together, in solidarity. That is also the way we have done it over the past period, with falling and rising, but in solidarity. We can count on that. We've been counting on that in healthcare for a long time. That is where solidarity has been stretched to the limit. We're further over the pain threshold in the hospitals. It is therefore not possible to postpone measures. Indeed, it is vengeful that some people besmirch solidarity such as by falsifying vaccination certificates, Mrs Jiroflée. There are two possible ways that could be faked. Firstly, a certificate is given to someone who has been vaccinated, while that person is not registered in our vaccine system. Those are the so-called fake QR codes. In the short space of time, I cannot give the technical explanation. With the hand on the heart, I can tell you that that is almost impossible. The technology with which the QR code is protected is such that if someone is not registered in Vaccinenet and shows a false QR code, the screen goes red. Something else is possible. A doctor sends a message to Vaccinenet that he has vaccinated someone and he hasn't punctured. That's outrageous, but it's possible. A doctor has been apprehended, which is now on the provincial committee and the person in question is undoubtedly losing (...) We have mechanisms to detect suspicious actions of vaccination and have set up a working group to detect them even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u15	Prime Minister, Minister, you have for too long been deaf to the appeals of experts. You reacted too late and too lightly. After far too much palabre in recent weeks on the part of governments, it is in the action you are expected to take: on the one hand, to clarify positions and to strengthen measures on mask and ventilation and, on the other hand, on the part of vaccination. Yes, there are a small number of non-vaccinates still to be convinced, but there are also, and especially, a large number of vaccinees, especially those over 45 years of age, in which vaccination effectiveness needs to be restored by a third dose in order to avoid many hospitalizations very quickly. I expect you to have an operational battle plan, since 4 million people would have to be vaccinated with a booster in the coming month. It seems to me that we will be able to avoid many hospitalizations together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, nobody wanted a fourth wave. Everyone hoped for a normal winter, but Corona doesn't win very quickly. So it is time we all confessed to colour, including in Parliament. We need to move on together. Gullible people must not be fooled, we must tell the truth. Come on, that choice has made for truth. We give the right message, no matter how difficult it may be. We will continue to fight together until we have conquered Corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I think we are indeed getting to the point where we have to admit that we have underestimated this fourth wave and that the measures taken in recent weeks may not be enough. Perhaps we were also too afraid of the consequences of these measures. Prime Minister, I would like to hear you say that we have had to change the strategy several times. We are now about to do that again. Minister, I would like to hear you say that you will adopt strict measures with immediate effect. Society is already dislocated because many people are sick or in quarantine at home. Everything we've learned in the past few weeks, we must now bend in humility. Tomorrow we have to do whatever it takes to flatten the curve again. The care sector is begging us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u18	Prime Minister, Minister, you are talking about measures needed to save lives. Our group will fully support these measures. We must take the necessary measures to ensure our public health. Minister, it is good to call for solidarity. A health system is not solidarity until it is there for everyone. On the ground, we note that this is unfortunately not the case today. That is why I would like to call you once again to sit down constructively with the sector. In the coming years, there are likely to be other infectious diseases coming at us. Make sure we have a plan and a robust system so that we can ensure care and continuity for everyone. I trust you and the Prime Minister's expertise. I really hope for forward-looking policies in the coming weeks, months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u19	Madam President, I would like to begin by apologizing to my esteemed colleague and thanking the Prime Minister and the Minister for their answers, but I must confess that I was somewhat disturbed by them. Indeed, I had the feeling that they were a little different. I shall therefore consider them to be complementary. It was my understanding that the Prime Minister was focusing on the accountability and responsibility of people in their behaviour and that the Minister of Health wanted to make the tone tougher. As a result, I imagine the truth lies between the two. Anyway, I've noticed that you're going to meet tomorrow in an emergency. Of course, we rely heavily on this meeting and hope that we will be able to move forward in the desired direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u20	Mr Minister, the choice has been made and you have made the choice to delay the third shot. It's working, though. I have a nice curve here from the Financial Times. It clearly indicates that the curve in our country has gone down since the 80-plussers were vaccinated. It is good that you will bet on faster vaccination but it is still too late. That's too bad. Minister, you are in favour of collusion, but I hear a lot of polarising statements from you in the press, and do something about that. Prime Minister, you are in favour of care. Finally, you will now work to reduce the pressure on care. However, you have forgotten to provide the vaccines and the legal framework for the tests. You also forgot to re-enable the care buddies. If you are in favour of measures, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers to the question of managing the immediate crisis, which we will obviously support. My intervention was broader. With regard to international solidarity, I think you will address the question to Mrs Wilmès, who will be available in five days to answer it. With respect to the attractiveness plan, I maintain that the sector needs this message now. Mr Vandenbroucke, I will remind you once again. With regard to compulsory vaccination, I also maintain that we need to feed ourselves not only on expert hearings but also on hearings from civil society in the widest possible way. I invite my colleagues to follow our lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u22	Madam President, Minister, a month ago my colleague and comrade, Raoul Hedebouw, asked you about the price of energy and the price of the fuels that are exploding. People today face insurmountable difficulties. They can't take it anymore! When you responded, you said that you were going to see if it would not be possible to apply the inverted click to limit the rise in energy prices. This week, you proudly said in the press that you were going to propose to the government to activate this inverted ratchet and thus reduce excise duties to reduce the cost of fuel. You call this a shock absorber against high fuel prices. Wonderful news, Minister! Wonderful news until we have discovered the price drop that this will represent, that is a euro not per litre but on a full one! Mr Minister, you will understand that while the full amount has increased by 20 euros compared to last year, a euro is ridiculous! You call it a shock absorber! I hope your car doesn't have a shock absorber like that because that would be a problem. But the worst thing is that hearing the other parties of Vivaldi, a euro, is still too much! The Liberals believe that this is not possible in the budget while, with the rise in fuel prices, the government has taken half a billion extra VAT from people. To hear the Greens, with telework, this measure is not really necessary. But, ladies and gentlemen, environmentalists, what world do you live in? Do you think all workers telework in Belgium? In fact, many people have to take their cars to get to work. Minister, will you pass the inverted ratchet to the government? Are you aware that a euro is far too little?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u23	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, I repeat what I said in this Chamber a few weeks ago. I am well aware of the effect that high pump prices have on our families' budgets. While the federal government is fully committed to sustainable and alternative transportation options, I am also well aware that this is not a short-term solution for many families that are now facing rising pump prices. That's why, a few weeks ago, I also promised to put the inverted ratchet system on the government table. Why? To temporarily curb the rise in prices. In the meantime, the proposal has been put on the table and the government is discussing it. Yes, Mr. Van Hees, I also read your president's tweet. He asks the question of what world I live in. In response, I would say that I live in a world where people rush to a service station in order to avoid a price increase of a few cents of euros. However, you accuse me of advocating a system that would grant a reduction of one euro to one full. I think you're targeting the wrong target, because I'm convinced that we have to do this to support the purchasing power of our families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u24	Minister, I do not know who in this Chamber understood the meaning of your answer! You said in the press that it would represent a euro gain if prices remain at the stage where they are now for one, two or three years. This means that for one, two or three years, people will pay 20 euros more than they paid a year ago. That's the reality! However, the government can reduce this price, since every year it will take 500 million euros via VAT. The rise in fuel prices has an automatic effect on the increase in VAT! Why don't you redistribute the 500 million to the workers? We must support the December 6 protest against wage freezes, the rise in energy prices and the return of a real wage index. Currently, the price of fuel does not count for wage indexation. How is that possible? What is this government doing? This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u25	Minister, Solidaris has just published his annual survey and the findings are terrifying. In fact, we learn that this year almost one in two French-speaking Belgians gave up at least one health care. It is all the more terrible that Solidaris sounds the alarm every year and that, despite this, it is not possible to stop this trend. Unfortunately, this cessation of care no longer affects only people in precarious situations, since it also affects the middle classes, the workers, the pensioners, and I am moving on. Minister, how can we imagine that every day in our country, men and women do not go to the doctor - specialist or general practitioner - the dentist, the psychologist, because they lack money and they also know that we will have to plan for something to eat, that we will have to save to pay the heating or electricity bill or, quite simply, to buy a new pair of shoes for the children? What are these people doing? Either they postpone care to a hypothetical future, when it's better, or they simply give up treatment. The consequence is, of course, a deterioration in their state of health, leading to an increase in the need for care - resulting in much higher costs. Mr Minister, in a country like ours, such inequalities cannot, of course, be tolerated. It is essential to take additional measures so that tomorrow no one has to choose between feeding and caring. Do you intend to draw inspiration from the concrete proposals expressed by Solidaris? Can you remind us of the measures already taken and, above all, those envisaged so that no one in our country can delay or give up health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, that is absolutely true! The findings are there and they are hard. Not only is access to care not guaranteed for everyone in our country, but the Solidaris Institute's 2021 survey shows that this accessibility has declined further in recent years. It is therefore absolutely necessary to provide an answer. Part of the answer is already in the INAMI budget approved a month ago. The growth standard, as you know, has been raised to 2.5 for the year 2022, allowing for a margin of EUR 123 million for additional initiatives. Almost half of this EUR 123 million margin will be used for measures aimed directly at improving the accessibility of health care. I believe, moreover, that the measures which are in preparation directly address the problems detailed in the Solidaris survey: dental care, an extension of the system of the paying third party, a greater reimbursement of the user fees for people with lower incomes thanks to the maximum amount to be charged (MàF), not to mention the structural measures which have already been taken outside this budget of INAMI 2022 with regard to mental health or measures which promote the granting of increased intervention. It is obvious that we must continue in this direction. That is why I think it is appropriate to take up the recommendations of the Solidaris Institute in the context of the work on the multi-annual journey launched by INAMI, which aims to develop a truly strategic vision in the medium term. It is also part of the answer to Ms. Farih's questions, which are absolutely legitimate questions about the medium and long term of our health care system. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. As I said, the findings of this study are indeed overwhelming and I hear that you share this terrifying finding. Thank you for recalling the 123 million that will be available for additional initiatives, with particular attention to dental care, the extension of the paid third party, the reduction of the maximum to bill (MàF). These are things you are already working on today, but, as I said, Solidaris unfortunately notes, on the basis of its annual surveys, that the health status of our population has been deteriorating in recent years. The figures for 2021 are overwhelming. These additional measures will need to be put in place to ensure that people who are forced to choose between feeding and caring for themselves have a real impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u28	Ladies ministers, not by Sint and Piet on the roof, but by a child in a trunk between the packages in a van with a Dutch crown on it, that is how packages are delivered today in Belgium. Colleagues, I am not exaggerating, that is the reality today and the list is much longer, including undeclared work, illegal work, organised social fraud. The companies PostNL and GLS have been before the courts for a long time, but still these practices continue. This week there was child labour and the result is that a pack of sintering cheese gifts is stuck in a sealed sorting center. Meanwhile, these companies say they don't know anything. How is it possible that companies do not accept their responsibilities when so much goes wrong? The key word is false self-employment. That is the way in which these multinationals shun their responsibilities. But in the meantime, there are children's hands on your package and on my meal, because at Deliveroo it's the same thing. It doesn't have to, but it still happens. Actually, that has to stop! Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a bill to put an end to these perverse situations. Now the couriers run themselves against the clock, without social protection or fair pay. With our legislative proposal, we are simply employed as an employee until proven otherwise. It can be as simple as that. It removes unfair competition from the market, it provides social protection for employees and couriers, and it also provides security for consumers. Madam Minister, Monday's checks show that control makes sense, especially now in the busy days. That is why I would like to ask you whether you can promise me that the government will continue to commit itself to monitoring during the busy holidays? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, since two weeks, Saint-Sint has been in our country. It's almost December 6th. We know that St. Peter's heavy task is not only helped by the Piets but also by the packing services. If we have to read in the newspapers that checks on certain parcel suppliers and their subcontractors reveal all kinds of serious infringements, such as undeclared work, exploitation and drivers without a driving licence, that is unacceptable. We can only strongly condemn that. Ladies and gentlemen, in a sector of murderous competition, a level playing field is of the utmost importance. Mrs De Sutter, we Liberals welcome the fact that you share that principle in your policy. Controls on malpractice and cowboy practices help to monitor that level playing field. What doesn't help is more Belgian rules. We must avoid a bid for additional regulation. After all, who would benefit from an even stricter framework for e-commerce in our country? For years we have been lagging behind by more rules, and then we find that the parcel delivery guys are driving around with a foreign license plate. Ladies and gentlemen, what will you do to ensure that there is room in our country for one of the most competitive sectors, with respect for working conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u30	Dear Ministers, if you want to know what a world without a union looks like, you should look at the broadcast of VTM about the abuses in the parcel sector. Working for 4 euros, 10 hours a day. Not only for a hunger wage, but through undeclared work and bogus self-employment, with drivers without a driver's license and child labour. It woke me up. That is why I contacted several employees in that sector. I used to know Brahim. He worked for PostNL. He told me he had a part-time contract but had to work full-time. He was only paid for part-time work while working full-time. He's not the only one. Brahim doesn't understand the consternation. He doesn't understand why you're all here asking what's going on. I thought you were all warned. Politics pretends to fall out of the sky and now drags Father Daens into it, but the unions have been calling the alarm for ten years. The legislation has been too short for ten years. There's even a trial against slave labor. I advise you both, ladies and gentlemen, to read this book, the black book of a union which contains many examples of incredible abuses. The right-wing parties of all the previous governments have encouraged this policy. Daens is still here today, in a lot of companies. I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary. In the media, you suggested that 70% or more of the workers in the parcel sector should be obliged to take up employment. That is possible, because DHL International proves this, a good example. We think that's a great idea. Can you guarantee that that rule will come? When? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, the journalistic undercover work and the invasion of social inspection services and also the work of the trade unions have brought hallucinatory situations to the attention of DPD and, in particular, PostNL. Your colleague, Mr Dermagne, is responsible for working conditions and social inspection. We all know why he can't be here today. I would like to take this opportunity to wish him well with his son's health. Drivers who have to put on 450 to 500 addresses one day, it's hallucinating. Turning in minors, sending in drivers without a driver's license, it's hallucinating. That we have to establish such degrading working conditions by 2021, it is hallucinating. These are unacceptable working conditions, but the consequences go even further. The impact on our roads and on road safety is also becoming clear every day. We all know the white vans that are burning over the left lane, that are pulling up after another delivery with screaming tires, doors that open in front of pedestrians or cyclists, or that park with two direction indicators in the middle of the lane. Moreover, we should not point the finger at the drivers who are under immense pressure. These working conditions and safety on our roads are under pressure from the logistics system behind e-commerce, the result of our online buying behaviour and the system that has been created with an additional push due to the corona conditions. However, not every consumer expects to receive every order within a few hours at home. Madam Secretary, we have keys in our hands. We have tools to better organise the logistics chain. We have an important link in e-commerce with bpost. How do we go?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I thought we had abolished slavery and child labour in this country over 100 years ago. When I saw the report, I didn't know what I heard. We must all condemn the abuses that have been raised, but we must stand on the sidelines and express our indignation is not enough. We must also come up with solutions. What are the causes of these problems? I'd like to share two of those with you today. Firstly, it is often very difficult for the parcel companies, even legally impossible to carry out that control. That's a first problem we need to solve. A second problem is that the Belgian parcel market is destabilised by a large player, by our own state-owned Post. We all know that bpost gets a lot of subsidies and tailor-made contracts, but also other favor conditions, for example. If I want to send a package by bpost tomorrow, I will not pay VAT, but if I do the same via PostNL or DPD, then 21 % VAT will be added. It can't be. Explain that to me. However, a much bigger problem and far greater dishonesty are social costs. In the logistics sector, drivers and couriers are workers, with a collective agreement specific to that sector. In the case of bpost, a much more favourable social regime applies as a servant. This means that competition has been distorted at a high level. Can you promise me that you will look into that so that we will effectively get a level playing field, as I have heard from my colleague here today, so that all companies can beg packages under the same conditions? If we do that, we can solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u33	Madam President, the questioners have all denounced the abuses we saw in the report this week. We had suspicions of this, given that there were procedures already in progress. That is why we have not waited until this week, as I have read here and there, to come up with ideas on how to deal with it. We have been working for a long time on the legislation that needs to be adapted in order to achieve a level playing field in e-commerce and the parcel sector. The parcel industry is my jurisdiction, that's the postal law. Mrs Lalieux will speak about Mr Dermagne's competence on that point. The platform economy and, by extension, the other players, are out of my jurisdiction. I can assure you that my policy paper, which was written a long time ago, contains a reference to that. In the budget discussions, we also made specific reference to the inclusion in the Postal Act of provisions to combat social dumping and fraud. That was exactly what I was talking about. No, so we didn't wait until this week, we were already working on this. A level playing field will apply to all players who will insure deliveries of packages to customers or to parcel machines in Belgium. Foreign players will therefore not receive any other terms here than domestic players. A problem with e-commerce is, of course, that in our country a lot is ordered abroad. That is something we urgently need to bring back here, but with our standards. I would like to emphasise something, Mrs Verhaert. If you talk about not wanting any more rules and more pressure and flexibility, I have also read comments on them. I agree, but what we are experiencing here is social fraud, exploitation and child labour. You mentioned it and I did refer to the nineteenth century in my initial reactions. There are limits to flexibility. It will have to be done on our terms and with our standards and with respect for working and wage conditions. Mr Freilich, the bar is equal for everyone. I have even heard the criticism of bpost from PostNL: suddenly all sorts of things would happen to favour bpost vis-à-vis PostNL. That's not true, of course. Our company is also committed to the social legislation in our country. bpost does not have a management agreement with subsidies, do not use that word, but a remuneration for activities that are not market-based, nothing else. This is also closely controlled by Europe. Thus, in the parcel sector, bpost is on its own and the company has to compete in a very competitive market with players who clearly do not follow the rules. As we have heard, it is mainly about subcontracting where there is no syndicated representation, because it is very small businesses where people are effectively exploited. It is a matter of false self-employment and we must tackle it. Social inspections are the responsibility of Mr Dermagne. There are effective controls, which Mr Lalieux may give figures on, and if you ask me, they need to be increased. But I can also do something through the postal bill. We can insert an article that sets out how many courier company employees must have a fixed contract within the mail delivery of packages. We can do that soon. The lyrics are in preparation and will soon come your way. This has to do with social sustainability. The price of the very fast orders of packages is externalized: it is not in the price of the package, but someone pays it and that is the courier who is being exploited and we have seen in the reportage. The same applies, of course, to ecological sustainability. Mr Van den Bergh spoke about the vans that drive around everywhere and cause nuisance. Both social and environmental sustainability must be internalised. This will not be done by means of measures that we take directly in the pricing of that sector, but by means of the market itself if we create the frameworks and regulations that it will have to comply with: then all players within that playing field will see for themselves how they will be eliminated...; micro).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the checks carried out by our inspection services at the beginning of this week have revealed once again scandalous violations. Minister of Work Pierre-Yves Dermagne is, like some public reactions, deeply indignant about this. You understand that we cannot provide much information about the judicial investigations; only the prosecution can. I would point out that a judicial investigation does not suspend the activities of a company. When Minister Dermagne presented his policy paper, my colleague said that the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service (SIOD) and the inspection services are aware of the problem with the courier companies. Obviously, they didn't look out for no job. They've carried out the checks in cooperation with the police and the Justice Department. Minister of Work Dermagne and Minister of Public Enterprises De Sutter wants to impose certain standards on parcel delivery workers, including the number of employees with a contract of employment, by means of the Postal Act of 26 January 2018. The aim of this is to put an end to the practice of the bogus self-employed in subcontracting. The measures are fully in line with the Minister for Employment's proposal to limit the subcontracting chain in different risk sectors and to impose an obligation to employ a certain percentage of workers. In order to stop the downward leveling, Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne will also propose to prohibit the outsourcing of contracts by self-employed persons to another company. The recruitment of 50 new inspectors, which was decided during the conclave, is certainly welcome, but cannot be the end of the strengthening of inspection services. All inspection services must combat social fraud efficiently and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u35	Dear Ministers, checks are obviously necessary and I certainly call for them, but they do not solve the problem fundamentally. As long as false self-employment remains possible, the multinationals will avoid their responsibilities. Mr Freilich says that it is bpost's fault, but it is both truck drivers and parcel delivery and bicycle couriers. Bpost doesn't come to my house with meals and the bike messengers don't drive around with stamps either. Every party in the hemisphere should ask themselves whether they will defend the real self-employed and make unfair competition impossible or whether they will support Deliveroo and PostNL and therefore child labour in our country. Vooruit opts for a fair market, strong social protection and gifts without child labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u36	Dear Ministers, we all condemn the practices. Strict controls should prevent them, but, once again, even more and more stringent rules do not solve the problem. E-commerce is a reality in the 21st century. Despite the poignant stories, tomorrow there will be thousands of packages at the front door. It must be possible, even in our country, to reconcile correct working conditions with a flexible sector in a workable and attractive market. I wish you both the best of luck with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u37	I have listened carefully and noted that you want to impose a percentage by means of the postal law. But what percentage is that going to be? We propose that you take 70%, as currently exists at DHL International, where working conditions are good. The employees have the status of servant and a good contract. That is what we must strive for. Let's increase the numbers and not adjust them down. I do not know how you will solve the problem, when I hear even fewer rules in the government representing Open Vld, because even fewer rules will make the situation even worse. There must be good rules and exploitation must stop. We'll be supporting the union's action tomorrow. Black Friday is an action day for the union against such exploitation conditions in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u38	Madam President, I would also like to thank the Ministers for their answers. There is a great deal of consensus on the issue of social fraud. We look forward to the initiative to adapt the legislation in this area. Allow me to take this opportunity to take a broader approach. There is something wrong with the system, and we have talked about this several times in committee, and this may come up again when we discuss the policy paper next week - when I see dozens of vans passing by in my street with barely ten houses every two hours, because a three-piece order is delivered three times by three different vans, and when nine out of ten packages ordered can be returned free of charge. We will have to explore how to make the logistics chain behind e-commerce sustainable, both socially and ecologically and economically with a level playing field for all companies. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u39	Madam Minister, as I said, we must not only be indignant, but also bring forward solutions. A number of years ago, we increased joint and several liability in the construction sector, the food sector and the monitoring sector. In this way, we have reduced social fraud and tackled social dumping. A badge system is used in the construction sector. Via the badge, the main contractor can check that the employees are okay. We will table a legislative proposal to introduce this system also in the parcel sector and in the food delivery sector, because there are similar problems there too. I look forward to your support for this solution, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, they were called Rachida, Marietta, Nathalie or Anne-Laurence. They have all been killed in recent months by what they were women, most often by their companion or ex-companion. These femicides occur after an escalation of structural and patriarchal violence against women and girls. Such violence is physical, psychological, economic or sexual. This 25 November is an opportunity to recall that, unfortunately, being a woman today is synonymous with insecurity. Today, being a woman means having to stand low, to keep quiet or even to hide in order to be safe, to protect oneself and his own children. This is unacceptable. Thank you very much for making this issue a priority. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that too many victims are not going to file a complaint for lack of confidence in our police or justice, considering that "this is no use". Are you going to propose at the same time as your reform of the Sexual Penal Code a real reform of criminal investigation? This would allow for example to recognize post-traumatic stress as evidence in its own right and therefore reduce the rate of complaints of rape that are dismissed by 53 per cent – mainly due to lack of evidence. How are you going to generalize good practices in different police areas, when we see that our police officers are not supported by the Minister of the Interior in their more than legitimate demands for the upgrading of their profession and the refinancing of police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u41	Madam President, Secretary of State, Minister, today, 25 November, is the international day against violence against women. Today, therefore, we must pay particular attention to this phenomenon, which unfortunately is a daily cost for a lot of women. The figures give little cause for joy. There are nine reports of rape a day. That is just the tip of the iceberg, as only one in ten rapes are reported. 81 percent of all women in this country are ever confronted with sexual violence, but barely 4 percent of them go to the police. When it comes to partner violence or intra-family violence, a victim does not report on average until after 35 incidents. A woman, or in a minority of cases a man, is therefore abused on average 35 times before a report is filed. Minister, you may want to make justice faster and more criminal, but it is quite clear that there is a lack of willingness to report. What can and will you do to close down this threshold, a threshold that is more difficult for most of these women to overcome than the Mont Ventoux? What will you do to simplify the declarations and what will you do in case of a declaration to protect the integrity of the victims? Another important point is the punishment. The Antwerp pilot project Code 37 would evaluate you step by step and roll out nationally, but I think the time has passed to proceed step by step. Every day we wait is a lost day and a day with more victims. Why isn't that project being rolled out faster across the country? Finally, my final question concerns the mandatory follow-up of perpetrators of partner violence and sexual violence. Anyone convicted must be obliged to be followed, both during and after the sentence. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u42	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, gender-related violence is today the biggest pandemic. Today is the day against violence against women. A third is physically or sexually harassed. Those are hallucinating numbers. If this were a medical condition, all the alarm bells would ring. It costs a lot of people's lives, every year. There are nine rape reports every day. The helpline 1712 was consulted 11,000 times last year for intra-family violence. 2,000 consultations were on partner violence, especially men who use violence against women. The helpline detects a huge rise due to corona. These figures are only a fraction of reality. After all, many people are afraid to report it. So we can rightly speak of a pandemic. The corona crisis has increased this violence, not only offline, but also online. Many positive initiatives have been taken in the past, such as the Family Justice Centers and the helpline 1712. How do you intend to step up the fight against violence against women? What additional measures will be taken to ensure that the fight against violence against women can be carried out in an efficient and centralised manner? Do you focus on an early approach and guidance for the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u43	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, today is International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Unfortunately, this kind of day is still necessary to draw your attention, our attention to this scourge, and to take stock of what remains to be done. First, it should be emphasized that violence against women must be addressed. Indeed, the types of violence are very diverse: sexual, physical, of course, but also psychological and economic. It is also necessary to recall that no place or space is free from violence. Women are subjected to violence everywhere: on the street, on social networks, on the workplace, on public transport, at school, on their campus and simply when they go for a drink. But they are also victims of domestic violence, as domestic violence remains endemic and all too often leads to the death of their victims. From the beginning of the year until 25 November, eighteen femicides have been committed. The diversity and recurrence of these violences show us that they are not road accidents, that they are structural and that they are the product of relations of domination directly linked to a patriarchal system that is deeply unjust and still largely rooted. But women are obviously not just victims. They allow themselves to speak by saying, "Me too." They also denounce. By denouncing, they throw away their pigs, their bars, their folklores, their comitards. They struggle to build a more equal world on a day-to-day basis in the field, in their organizations, in their workplaces, in their places of life. Finally, they claim that politics is up to date. They call for the fight against violence against women to be a real priority for public authorities. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I am addressing you today. You announced several months ago the establishment of a national plan against violence against women (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for too long, our society has closed its eyes to the many women and girls who have to endure violence every day, who cannot walk safely on the streets, who cannot party safely, who are not safe in their own homes. In short, they don't feel safe anywhere. Many women and girls are nowhere to be heard, either in their own environment or in their assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, too long too little has been done with reports. Too often there was no prosecution. Too often we have seen that there was hardly any punishment. We want to change that. We have to change that. That's what we're changing. The day before yesterday, in the discussion of the new sexual criminal law, and also in the next few weeks. Mrs Rohonyi, we will also reform the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is good to note that there is no distinction between majority and opposition in Parliament. Changing the law is one aspect. Making changes on the ground is another aspect. The second is also happening. Mrs Bury, there are more reports today than before, not only because the taboo is dying, but also because there are places today where victims are being well received, our care centres against sexual violence. Today, Justice also acts more quickly to protect victims, by imposing a temporary restraining order, so that a victim no longer has to live in fear in his own home, or by providing a stalking alert, so that immediate assistance can be sought in the event of a threat. Justice also prosecutes more often than before, using and developing techniques to identify suspects more easily and quickly. Today, I would like to pay tribute to the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology, which is doing pioneering work in our country. Justice also needs to work more tailor-made. That's why we're recruiting 15 criminalologists with this government to do two things. They will better protect victims by faster identifying dangerous home situations. The criminalologists will also be better able to guide those offenders in order to prevent recidivism. There's something else that needs to be done. It doesn't cost money, and it doesn't take extra people. Justice needs to become more empathetic. A cold, impersonal standard letter in an incomprehensible legal language, that comes in hard on every victim. Let me give you an example. Attorney Ine Van Wymersch, attorney at Halle-Vilvoorde, regularly invites victims personally to say what Justice has done, but also sometimes to say what failed and why it has not succeeded. We cannot guarantee that we can identify or condemn people in 100% of cases. Unfortunately, sometimes it is necessary to dismiss. That too is the fate of justice, but then it has to be explained in a personal, empathetic way. Justice is fighting against sexual violence, against violence against women and girls on all fronts. We've seen that again today. As you know, I never make judgments in individual cases, because that judgment is for the judge alone. The ruling in the De Pauw case proves that the Justice Department takes any form of sexual violence seriously and strictly monitors the limits of the permissible. That is something we all have to do. Don't look away, don't laugh away, but say stop, here's the line and no further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your vigilance in the fight against gender violence. As you know, this is a subject that I am particularly interested in. I've been working hard on this since I took office in this government. It is also a top priority for the federal government as a whole. In November 2020, as Belgium was recovering, I proposed to the federal government to adopt an action plan to combat gender and domestic violence following the second wave of covid-19. A few weeks ago, in committee, I announced that the national action plan against gender violence would be adopted in the autumn. I can now inform you that its adoption is on the agenda of this week's federal government, as is the case for all governments in the country. I confirm that the National Action Plan Gender-related Violence is being adopted by all governments this week. I look forward to presenting it to you in detail shortly. I have already asked the Chair of the Equal Opportunities Committee and the Chair of the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee to set a date together. Several measures forming part of the first plan will be continued, such as the principle of re-visitation, which requires police officers to resume contact with any victim who has lodged a complaint, or the encouragement to use the temporary ban on residence for perpetrators of domestic violence. I can also tell you that the process that has been carried out for more than a year to adopt this plan is a positive experience that has demonstrated the willingness to work together, with all the governments of the country, to combat gender violence. This point is very important. In September 2020, prior to the installation of this government, GREVIO highlighted the lack of coordination between the different political levels in the fight against violence. In order to combat violence, it is essential that all levels be mobilized. The municipal level is also concerned. I had the chance to inaugurate last week in Ath some fifteen of the fight against gender violence. This is an example that could be replicated in other places. I would also like to inform you that the voluntary sector working with victims was involved in the process, in particular through a large consultation last May. Mrs de Laveleye, with regard to the budgets, I have obtained that at the federal level, an additional €2.5 million is devoted to the fight against gender violence every year. This struggle requires means, not just good will. The violence has marked the news during the first year of the Vivaldi government. There was no question of doing nothing! We have seen 18 femicides, which are often only the tip of the iceberg. There are often months or even years of violence behind the walls. I am also thinking of movements such as "Balance Your Folklore", "Ik geloof u" or "Balance Your Bar" that started in Belgium and are growing. They are found in France, Spain, the United Kingdom or even Canada. It can therefore be seen that such violence has a systemic and repetitive nature against which to fight at the root. We have also carried out actions in parallel with the implementation of this plan. In particular, I launched the campaign "Act against violence" two weeks ago, which calls on victims and witnesses of violence between partners to act and call the numbers that can give them advice when they are confronted with this type of violence. We also opened two new centres for the care of victims of sexual violence (CPVS) and found a solution for the extension of the Brussels CPVS. Mrs Rohonyi, you mentioned the need to increase the filing of complaints. SPCs are a solution in this regard. There is the reform of the Sexual Penal Code that is being carried out by my colleague from the Justice Department. The free listening lines have been set up by our colleague Petra De Sutter. A manual for caregivers accompanying victims of sexual violence was produced with our colleague Frank Vandenbroucke. Colleagues, you can count on me to continue fighting this violence on a day-to-day basis. I also hope I can count on you in this struggle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u46	Madam President, Secretary of State, Minister, thank you for the measures you have listed, which have also been called for and supported by my party. I would also like to thank all those who are now freeing the word of the victims. Indeed, as we know, silence kills. But this word still needs to come before our police and justice services. Madam Secretary of State, you have rightly stressed the importance of means. For my part, I still wonder about the resources allocated to our police services. Minister, you have announced the commitment of criminologists to combat recidivism. I am still wondering about the funding of support and care centres for sex offenders. You also insisted on the removal of perpetrators of domestic violence from their homes. I wonder about the effectiveness of this decision. I therefore hope that you will be attentive to all these aspects within the framework of your inter-federal action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u47	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I know, Minister, that you take the problem seriously. Nevertheless, I remain somewhat hungry when it comes to lowering the threshold of declaration. That is, of course, a difficult dossier, but every appeal must be taken more seriously, and every dossier must include the bull immediately at the horns. In determining the facts, the necessary measures must be taken immediately and the safety of the victim must be guaranteed. It sounds simple, but it's the only way forward. The facts and figures prove it, if there is a problem in which justice must become not only faster and more criminal but also more human for the victims, then it is this one. Because the public prosecutors and prosecutors can continue to claim that they are much more committed to victim treatment, in practice it often remains deafeningly silent for years, even in Halle-Vilvoorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u48	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree that you take this problem very seriously. Quite rightly, because there are far too many women involved with street harassment and senseless violence. A far too large group also feels unsafe in their own home, which should actually be their home. For us, violence against women is one of the most serious and common violations of human rights. There must be a strong response to that. The declaration will have to be increased. I believe that you are indeed taking and are going to take a number of measures that contribute to this. An important aspect of this is that the victims must feel that they are being listened to. The environment is not allowed to do victim blaming. There is also a need for awareness campaigns on the forms of violence. There must be clear guidelines. It is also important that information is made available in an accessible manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u49	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I want to stress again here what you have been doing since the beginning of this Parliament and to reaffirm that the fight against violence against women is at the heart of your priorities. A plan was needed because we are facing systemic and endemic violence. As a result, we need excellent coordination between the different levels of our State, and we also need a commitment from all of us: from justice, the police, but also from the media, from school and from each and every one of us. I would like to point out that a plan is obviously important, but that will not be all. We must continue this struggle. We must continue to listen to the victims who speak to us every day directly, at home, at home, in the media. On Sunday, women with their allies will still be on the street and we will have to listen to them when they cry: "No more violence, no more rape, no more victim!"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u50	Minister, it would be somewhat disrespectful to remind you of the extremely difficult mission that our police officers perform every day, especially for several years, during which their duties have increased as a result of successive crises. I'm thinking about the bombings, the covid or, lately, the floods. The police are very angry. It's no wonder: we've been asking you about the police for months almost every week. It is clear that you had to take the time to settle in your function. Now it is becoming urgent to hear their claims and to take them into account. Of course, their demands relate to the attractiveness of the office, the salary, the number of staff - a matter on which we have come back very often - because there is a shortage of 4,500 police officers: 3,000 for local police and 1,500 for the federal police. If I may say so, the last budgetary conclave has set fire to the powders, triggering a series of demonstrations and actions in order to draw your attention to the urgency of the decisions to be taken. Indeed, during the conclave, you did not decide anything, particularly with regard to the NAPAP regime, although you made a commitment in committee to find a solution. It seems that this regime is simply being abolished. Meanwhile, not only are police officers worried and not valued to their fair extent in the performance of their missions, but the population is also taken hostage by your concern and renunciation. How do you intend to resume the dialogue? Tell us clearly and unambiguously about the NAPAP regime. Do you intend to delete it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u51	Minister, it has been 15 years since I, as a mayor, sat at the College of Police. Police officers continue to increase their actions as part of the ongoing strike. We know that you are continuing negotiations with the unions and that you are, of course, working to find an optimal solution to the demands expressed. All this takes place at a time when the municipalities are drawing up their budgets. To do this, it is important to know all the data on transfer expenditures. Allocations to police areas are part of these transfer expenses. The development of the police zone budget therefore depends on the instructions of the federal government through a circular called PLP 60. However, to date, this circular has not yet been published, which poses a problem in the preparation of the 2022 budgets. Minister, as far as the demands of our police officers are concerned, can you give us your work schedule and provide us with any positive openings and prospects? NAPAP is one of the concerns expressed by our police officers. This is the waiting treatment during pre-pension non-activity. We know that the government will prepare a reform proposal, at the latest by the time the 2023 budget is prepared, on the basis of your proposal. Can you therefore give us more details about your work schedule on this subject? Finally, with regard to the preparation of police zone budgets, can you tell us when circular PLP 60 will be published and what the main points are? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u52	Madam Secretary, exactly two weeks ago I was standing here as well. I warned you at the time about the police's upcoming actions. What was your reaction? You accused me of telling half-truths here and of voting. You said you were on the right track with the social dialogue. In the meantime, every day it appears how strong the demand for wage increases lives on the ground. I do not know if you have noticed, Madam Secretary, but the whole of Belgium is flat. There are police actions every day. At all levels: in the cities, at the airport, poke actions. Who knows what's gonna happen next? All this because of your attitude, Madam Secretary. You indicated that you believed in your constructive negotiations. Those would be the solution. That may indeed be the case, but I do not have the impression that you believe in the consultation, that you take it seriously and that you take it constructively. How else is it that the police unions ran away during your so-called consultation? What do you not understand about this story, Madam Secretary? You cannot sit at the negotiating table, reach out to the trade unions, and then come out with an empty wallet. That's not negotiating. That's not serious. The unions and policemen deserve more respect than this, Madam Secretary. That is why I have two clear questions for you. Will Mr De Croo be present at next Monday's meeting? Though, uh, consultation? An hour has been cleared between the soup and the chips. Will you put on the table the 200 million euros that trade unions are asking for to raise wages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u53	Colleagues, as always, the traditional rules of dialogue apply here as well. This means that the interlocutors want to know and understand each other's point of view and that the interlocutors invest in a permanent context in order to reach an agreement. For me, respect for the other's position is crucial. This applies both around the table and elsewhere, and the statements of some, in recent days, have not necessarily helped in this regard. Finally, the various parties do not make any assumptions about a possible agreement elsewhere than around the table and have the will to bring it to a successful conclusion. I can confirm that I have invested a lot in this in recent weeks and days. I am convinced that we must continue to invest in constructive dialogue, because that is the only way to achieve a result. I respect, as I have always done, the demand for a better qualitative and quantitative status after 20 years and I pay particular attention to the questions and requests of the unions. That is why I had already made a concrete proposal to the trade unions last April, which was rejected by them at that time. But all parties around the table are certainly aware of the budgetary constraints of the federal government and local authorities. In the meantime, on Monday and Tuesday I met the trade unions again and I was present at the meeting. The intention was to lay down, first of all, an agenda, which we had agreed with the trade unions. On Monday we will have a new agreement with the common trade union front, on which we will discuss the further outlines for the consultation. In addition, I also consulted the representatives of the associations of cities and municipalities, both along the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels sides, and I also discussed the status and approach of NAVAP within the federal government. Let me be clear: the concern for an attractive and forceful police force for the future is at the heart of all the partners in the government. I therefore call on everyone to continue to contribute constructively to the discussions so that we can reach an agreement. Mr Colebunders, you will not be surprised that I have to conduct the negotiations around the table and not here in Parliament. That is why I cannot comment today on the amounts that can be discussed. In other words, the social dialogue continues with, as far as we are concerned, the convinced will to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Although you seem to be stepping up efforts to restore dialogue, the unions, the police don't feel like they're being heard or even listened to. That is where the problem lies for the time being. So we're going to have to put a lot in the balance to get the dialogue back on track. You haven't answered my question about NAPAPs. You simply stated that you were trying to find a solution. I would remind you that you have repeatedly stated that this regime would not be abolished. Let me quote from the Royal Decree on NAPAP in the Report to the King: "The police are placed in a situation comparable to that of the other security sectors, i.e. with their own early departure regulations which will be valid until all early departure regulations in the federal public sector, including this Order..." The government must truly live up to its commitments (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I know you're doing everything you can to find solutions to the demands of our police officers. We encourage you to do so. You can count on us. However, at some point, an adjustment agreement should not be made for the federal police and not for the local police. A policeman is a policeman. I have the greatest respect for the work of our police officers who, with the crisis of covid-19, have seen their workload increase and are confronted daily with the concerns of citizens, sometimes working in difficult conditions. I hear their concerns on the ground. I also hear the concerns of the municipalities about the financial burden on them. The payroll represents, for example, nearly 90 per cent of the budget of my police area. You need to be able to answer these questions as clearly as possible. A commitment is a commitment!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u56	Madam Minister, four times I have heard the word 'dialogue', but you are actually holding a monologue. If you do not go to the negotiating table on Monday with EUR 200 million, it is clear which side you are on. The unions have lost faith in you. You talk a lot about negotiation, but you don't negotiate, you do windowdressing. You even got a second scoop, because you're a minister for a year and the unions asked for your resignation last week. You're not alone with that. This Vivaldi government has a clear message. The government always gives the impression that it supports social dialogue. However, when it comes to the purchasing power of the employees, including police, the government keeps turning its back on them. That is why we call on the police unions to argue with the full working class on 6 December to make a clear statement against this vivaldi government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u57	Dear colleagues, dear Secretary of State, there was terrible news. There are 31 people who are illegal, but in the first place people who drowned during their crossing from Europe to the United Kingdom. Here in Parliament, as politicians, we must not fall from the sky, as if this Channel Route were new. It's been popular since 2018. Under your predecessor, it was also a hot issue. France has even been asked this week to seek help from Frontex. That's, frankly, the first time Frontex gets an original assignment. In the Mediterranean, Frontex is mostly used to do everything in its power to ensure that illegal immigrants reach Europe. In the North Sea, they must do everything they can to ensure that the illegals cannot escape Europe. However, that is not why I am standing here today. The most important thing is that the Channel Route is being sealed down. I believe we share that concern. We all know that there is a suction effect when an illegal person reaches the coast of Great Britain and takes a selfie there. More people are going to risk their lives unnecessarily. The Flemish interest would do more, you know that we are a punitive party. We would deploy the Navy, we would release more resources from the police to patrol the coast and on the border with France. That is not my question, however. My question is, what are you going to do with the illegals you're going to try to stop? Are you going to put them in the asylum centers? That won't work because they're overcrowded. Are you going to send them back to your country? You know that this is our preference, but you will not be allowed to do so by the real bosses of this Vivaldi government, Ecolo and the PS. What are you and your colleague going to do to tackle this problem hard? Perhaps you would like to take steps towards Fortress Europe, the only truly sustainable solution to emerge from this crisis...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, every month 8,000 to 9,000 migrants try to cross the Channel. Half of them reach the other side and at least 30% usually stick. A kind of Lampedusa has now emerged with 3,000 people. Sometimes one goes in convoys from 30 to 40 boats because once on the water, there is not enough police. There's no help from Frontex. You know very well that 6 out of 10 of these people cross Belgian territory. The life jackets reach us from the Netherlands, the boats and the outboard engines from Germany. There are even boats stolen in the port of Nieuwpoort. Our police are being attacked on the beach and municipal police officers have to infiltrate the border information network for lack of federal police. After all, it takes 50 days for an application for reinforcement to be granted. There is no camera surveillance in the port of Nieuwpoort. It is only available in Zeebrugge, Blankenberge and Ostend through the Beacon project. That's the big problem in Nieuwpoort. Asylum centres have been opened in Koksijde and Lombardy. I contacted you on the phone and I understand those 47 people, including women and children, who have come from Afghanistan, but they are already 170 at the moment. You know very well that asylum centres are recruitment offices for smugglers and that the centre of Lombardsijde is 1 km from the port of Nieuwpoort, on the dunes and on the beach. Madam Secretary of State, as mayor, I am concerned and I would like to hear what measures you intend to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u59	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday 31 people, women, some of whom were waiting for families, men, adolescents, children, lost their lives in the English Channel. Today, my thoughts go to the victims, to their loved ones and to all those who mourn them. I sincerely ask the Democrats to stand up and recognize that there are no two categories of human life. There are no two categories and two forms of dignity. I ask that the digity that one recognizes oneself, one can recognize it to the other. To the noises of certain words, to the noises of certain slogans, I ask here that we oppose the silence of mourning and invite those who share our ideal of humanism to a few seconds of silence. (A moment of silence is observed) I thank the colleagues who have risen. Minister, Secretary of State, this is not an accident. This is not a tragedy without responsibility. This human tragedy reflects the failure of a European migration policy. These people who have disappeared off the Greek, Italian, Spanish and French coasts at the gates of Poland in recent weeks, if abused by unscrupulous people in human life, are the victims of the absence of a responsible, humane and supportive European migration policy. It is imperative that European countries step up their cooperation, change course, define solutions to prevent these crossings or walls from becoming walls where lives are broken. Mr Secretary of State, we must dare and reform European migration policy. I simply ask you what structural solutions you intend to put on the table so that, in the face of the disorder of the world, we, like Europeans, can, as a founding State of a Union of value where life and human dignity prevail, offer lasting and safe solutions to these people in distress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u60	Madam President, today there are two of us to answer: Minister Verlinden and I. Is speaking time therefore shared?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u61	You must indeed give up part of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u62	All right. First of all, I would like to thank all of you for the questions and, more specifically, Mr Aouasti, for inviting us to gather to pay tribute to those who drowned yesterday, but also to all those who have died in recent months and years as they tried to cross the Channel. We must express our compassion to all those people, men, women and children, who are clearly victims. The first thing we must of course do is not only try to map the network of FR smugglers and trace them, but we must also try to tackle them as hard as possible. Organised criminal gangs with the earning model to cross people from France to Great Britain must be dealt with hard in every possible way. That's what we're doing at federal level. The fight against human trafficking is conducted by the Justice Department. Think of the Transit Team, where cell phones from people who are being intercepted have to be read out to know who the smugglers are who abuse people, put them on a rickety boat and make the crossing, knowing that the chances are very high that those people will eventually drown. As far as my department is concerned, the overseas team does the work on the ground to inform people well, to ensure that they do not take the road and do not imagine that the Eldorado is on the other side of the Channel. There is also, of course, cooperation with Frontex. It exists in the south but must also be in the north. We all invest in Europe, in Frontex, in strengthening borders. It has to be done. We also need the European Union to do this. We need cooperation with Great Britain in the field of security. It is important that this cooperation should also be strengthened. The British must also review their migration model themselves, because there are reasons why people think they can live without identity documents in Britain. Cooperation with other countries is also needed. Mr Dedecker, you are right to say that one buys a motor of a boat in one country, a vest in another country and makes the crossing in a third country. This can only be resolved by a coordinated European asylum and migration policy. Yes, Mr Aouasti, we need a migration pact, cooperation at European level because if not drowned people, we will still have too much, and minutes of silence, we will never have enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u63	Mr Aouasti, Mr Dedecker, Mr Van Grieken, I would like to join those who have expressed their sympathy for the tragedy. It's hitting us deep. The footage is burned on our retinas. We must do everything we can to counter these situations. We know that transmigrants who want to reach the United Kingdom via our country, mainly via the port of Zeebrugge, by climbing into trucks. That is why our focus is also on the security of that port. Actions are being carried out regularly with the support of the United Kingdom and France. We also tackle the phenomenon in the highway parkings. After all, it starts much earlier than in the harbor. Our country has also been hit by small boats, which usually depart from the French coast, but sometimes drift off to our coasts. As I said, human smugglers, real criminals, use our country as a transit country for logistical support of the operation. We must oppose that. Mr Mahdi's coordinated European approach is the only possible option. We have regular consultations with our European colleagues. As a result of the tragedy, Mr Mahdi and I will be sitting with our French colleague Darmanin on Sunday, as well as our colleagues from the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. The European Commission has also been invited, because we must unite our forces and send a clear signal to the criminals. Police forces, especially road police, are doing everything possible to disrupt the organisations of smugglers and to make operations as impossible as possible. To this end, the DirCo has developed a special action plan in West Flanders, which is for discussion with the governor, the local police and the public prosecutor. In addition, the federal judicial police are working on a coordinated action including the preparation of a smallboat team and a joint investigation team, which conduct the investigations together. We asked the governor of West Flanders to coordinate the problems on the ground and to start a project with thermal cameras and thermal cameras. It is only with combined forces that we will be able to avoid such tragedies in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, I have listened carefully to your answers. You won't be surprised that your answers don't really convince me. Your approach and your announcements do not convince me of anything. It's just drops on a hot plate, because you just keep mopping with the tap open. The Flemish interest wants us to join the policies of courageous countries such as Greece, Hungary, Poland, with their courageous politicians and courageous ministers who realise that open borders are just the cause of all those dead people. I sincerely believe you, but if you really want to tackle the illegal crossing from the European Union to the United Kingdom, then the illegal crossing from Africa and Asia to Europe must be addressed. That is something that must be dealt with first. The European external borders must be closed and we must create a real Fortress Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to hear you talk about Europe. Europe is a wonderful cover. We've been suffering from transmigrants in my congregation for 25 years. The jungle in Calais has existed for 15 to 20 years. We get shelter in March so that they can no longer walk on the motorway after 25 years. The problem is not police, but perhaps understaff and cooperation. Today the Border Force from England comes to Koksijde to talk to the municipal police, not the federal police. What is the big problem? If these people are arrested, they can only be given a coffee cake and coffee. One can only call the DVZ. All you can say is go back home. History repeats itself. That's the big problem. It is the legislator who has to change the case. We're tiring the police. That is the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u66	Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. However, yesterday it was Calais; three days ago, 75 deaths in the Mediterranean from Libya. In fact, for the past 30 years, Europe's fortress has had 50,000 deaths, 50,000 souls broken on our walls, which have been swallowed up by our seas. Men and women, inspired by the hope of a better life, like men and women who today populate our universities or churches, and who have started a hunger strike for a better life. We can talk about stronghold Europe. It can be envisaged that Frontex, with all the reproaches, the investigations of the European Anti-Fraud Office in particular, the World's investigations of push back to Libya, and all the worries caused by this European agency, may be the illusion of a solution, but what is needed are immediate solutions. These are national rescue missions at sea to prevent other lives from being lost and to avoid continuing to criminalize those, especially NGOs, who are trying to help save lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u67	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Thémont, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u69	We shall vote against this draft and I shall explain why. The N-VA has regularly supported the additional support in corona times for life labourers and certainly for OCMWs. Some of the aid measures were indeed effective. This cannot be said of the measure in question, which, like some other measures, is not fine enough and lacks logic. We know Mrs Lalieux's ambition to increase all benefits to far beyond the poverty line. If we had the PS, it would be raised by thousands of euros. That's a wonderful story, if there were such a thing as a tree with money. In committee, I have asked a number of times where it stands, because I would also like to find it. It would be wonderful if that did not weigh in on the long-term sustainability of social security. It would be absolutely wonderful if measures were based on the vision where fewer people would have to make use of benefits, because that is the most social policy. So we miss that view very much in the measure we are talking about. We agree that the living wage for those who really deserve it is too low, and that the issue deserves a broad debate. Only, Madam Secretary, you are taking that deviously through the corona measures. You give the bounty to all living wagers. However, I would like to believe that identifiable elements show that these OCMW customers are at a disadvantage in the current period. I gave the example in committee of students with a living wage who, of course, are much more difficult to carry out student work in the hospitality industry today, since the hospitality industry is closed half the time. You could play nicely on that. The allocation of EUR 50 extra for everyone has nothing to do with the real needs of the corona pandemic. That is why we do not support the extension of this measure. Moreover, the fact that the premium was reduced from EUR 50 to EUR 25 is due to the disagreement over the measure in the government and the budgetary story. In addition, the Minister mentioned in committee the reduction of the premium from EUR 50 to EUR 25 the beginning of the phasing-out and we could see the proof that it would have been done with that measure by the end of December anyway. However, that was counted outside of colleague Maggie De Block, who made a very different statement about this, which was very strange from a liberal point of view. But in that committee meeting, Open Vld turned out to be more left-wing than the PVDA and the PS right-wing than any right-wing party, in short, no party seemed to be themselves, except for the N-VA. In summary, Madam Secretary, I share your will to better support people in poverty. As a former OCMW chair, I also welcome your intention to better support the OCMWs. However, I think that you are using a lot of money in a way that is too little fine-meshed to actually achieve results. I fear that in this case you are also using corona a little to take an extra step and to meet your desire to further increase the living wage. However, this will always have to go hand in hand with the increase in minimum wages, Madam Minister. So you need to broaden the debate. That is why we will vote against it. Please don't call that antisocial, because I'm always willing to take the broader story with you in all its depths.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u70	Colleagues, this is an unprecedented crisis that we have been going through for almost two years and that is deepening the inequalities already present in our society. We therefore needed measures to support the most vulnerable among us. This is what Minister Karine Lalieux has undertaken. The temporary premium for recipients of GRAPA, social integration income or income replacement allowance for persons with disabilities has been used to support households that face additional expenses - masks, freezes, heating due to confinement, etc. - in view of a budget that was already very limited. But the crisis is not over. We see this today, on the eve of a new Codeco and likely new measures to contain contamination and pressure on hospitals. This extension, at least until 31 December, is therefore essential in view of the fragility of those who have less purchasing power, as well as the increase in prices, particularly energy. The evolution of the health context will tell us whether this measure will have to stop at the end of the year or whether it will be necessary to extend it. Of course, it is regrettable that the extension is limited to EUR 25 instead of the initial 50, but it is important to remember that these social beneficiaries need more structural increases. These are in progress. Thus, on 1 January 2022, the amount of RIS for an isolated person will increase to 1,051 euros, compared to 940 on 1 January 2020. Unlike the previous government, the government is resuming its desire to raise the lowest benefits above the poverty line. It is above all this point that should be stressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u71	Madam Minister, I will be clear immediately: we will support this draft law, but we are very critical because from now on we are talking about EUR 25 per month. An extra 25 euros for October, November and December is really very low. The corona crisis is not over at all. On the contrary, a fourth wave has begun which is even worse than many experts expected. Reducing the amount from EUR 50 to EUR 25 is therefore not related to poverty policy, but is a pure form of saving policy. For our Liberal colleagues in particular, I would add that it is increasingly about self-employed people, young and old, and assisting spouses, single parents, young people, students and so on. You're not gonna drop these people, are you? We are therefore again tabling our amendments to increase the amount to EUR 50 again and to extend it to the people with a sickness benefit, because, frankly, they are also having a very difficult time. I would add that the design is far too late. October and November are already over, and it is only now that people know where they stand. The money was urgently needed in October and November, but it wasn't there. For people in poverty, 25 euros a month is a lot of money. That's a few days not eating or heating the apartment. I repeat, for the tenth time, there is no point in extending this type of measure by three months each. One must dare to look further ahead, one must provide people with security. It is very bad for those people if they do not know whether they will receive another EUR 25 or 50 tomorrow. We all know, moreover, that even after the corona crisis, there will be an additional battle of poverty which will only then emerge. We already know that phenomenon from 2008 and 2009. You spoke about this yourself in your policy paper, Madam Secretary. Our amendment, to extend the premium until the end of 2022, is therefore retabled. Finally, corona has returned from never leaving, so much is clear. It is not just the people who need to be kept straight, including the OCMWs. This law should also have extended the reinforced federal allowance for the OCMWs, which expired on 30 September. We are therefore tabling an amendment to increase the grant by 15% until the end of 2022. I am now addressing the majority of my fellow Members in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, with PVDA we are giving you the opportunity to deal with this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u72	Madam President, the law of 27 March 2020 granted a temporary co-vid premium of EUR 50 per month to certain categories of people to support the most vulnerable people and to help bear the financial consequences of the corona crisis. People who receive an IGO, an IVT or an IT or receive a living wage through the OCMW will receive that premium. The draft law now before us extends the period for granting that premium, but on the other hand the premium is reduced from EUR 50 to EUR 25 per month. The fact that there has been an economic crisis and an energy crisis during and after a health crisis makes life particularly difficult for many financially weaker people in our society. The extent to which this is still a corona measure or a structural increase in a number of benefits can be discussed. In this context, the majority parties themselves suggest this in the explanatory memorandum. Nevertheless, the spectacularly increasing energy prices weigh on the budget of many people. This applies not only to the recipients of aid. The contents of the shopping cart have also become significantly more expensive. Similarly, the group experiencing difficulties is much larger than the group reached by the measure. I mention, for example, those who were forced to be economically unemployed because the government closed their sector, and may well close it again, if I may believe the prophets who spoke earlier this afternoon in Parliament. Those who were forced to be economically unemployed also felt the crisis very hard, like all those who work in sectors with permanent low wages or who have to survive with a living wage. There is no denying that certain categories of people can use additional financial support. The very rapid rise in gas, electricity, fuel oil and related products prices will continue to cause more financial drama. The big impact of these exuberant increases trying to mitigate with a premium of ocharm 25 euros per month, is a measure for nothing. It is a blow in the water, or rather a blow in the face of the many poor in our society. The fact that the government is looking the other way is still poignant. The growing group of people who go to the OCMW and do not receive a living wage, but possibly other support, balance themselves or drown in debt. I would like to give an example of people who 'enjoy' a heating allowance, low-income people or those who are in debt in debt mediation. In order to address the problems outlined, we are putting forward again in plenary the three amendments that we have already tabled in committee. In the meantime, the majority has had a few more days to think about this, perhaps it will give the necessary support today. Let me briefly explain the amendments. Firstly, since the low corona premium of EUR 50 for some of the rightholders was already insufficient to cover the additional costs, the Flemish interest proposes to raise EUR 25 back to EUR 50. Secondly, anyone who receives an integration allowance, an income replacement allowance or an income guarantee for the elderly as a disabled person is entitled to this corona premium for the Flemish interest. It had already been published in the press that the premium was intended for all persons with disabilities, but now it appears that those who receive an invalidity benefit through the sickness fund are not entitled to it. This is a mockery of the principle of equality. Since there is little discussion on the general principle, we propose that the disabled person who receives an invalidity allowance through the sickness fund should also receive the corona premium. Thirdly, this premium is also granted to all persons who receive aid through the OCMW from the Social Fuel Oil Fund or to those entitled to the social tariff for gas and electricity. It is clear that broad action is needed to mitigate the effects of the above-mentioned problems. This will certainly not happen by increasing the number of people in poverty or by pushing more and more people into poverty. That is unworthy of our welfare state. That is why our group will approve the draft law, but we hope to improve it with our three amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to go back to the very rich debate that took place in committee. First of all, I would like to reply to Mrs Van Peel. Madam, you must know that, since April, we support students who have lost their jobs with a particular subsidy, namely Zoom 18/25. There are still subsidies in the country as a whole. We must therefore not hesitate to support, through the CPAS, those students who are experiencing difficulties and who are, today, insecure. With regard to the security that must be available to vulnerable people who, in particular, receive from the CPAS or who receive an alternative allowance for persons with disabilities or the beneficiaries of GRAPA, you know, Mr Colebunders, that by 2024 there will be a 20% increase in all social benefits. Never will a government have done so much! These are structural increases which are indeed necessary for these people living in precarious conditions. With regard to the late arrival of the bill under consideration, which, it is true, had to be submitted for the advice of the Council of State, I would like to reassure you. Indeed, all the CPAS were informed, as soon as the point came to the government, that they could pay the 25 euro premium. This is what the vast majority of CPAS in this country has done. If this is not the case with the CPAS you know, this decision belongs to them. But they already had permission to pay the 25 euros in October and November. Finally, with regard to the issue of over-indebtedness and energy prices, this government will put an additional EUR 16 million in the Gas Electricity Fund for CPAS, which, as you said, will need it. Therefore, I think I can say that we are trying to leave no one on the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u74	Madam President, Minister, you must forgive me, but if this issue is addressed and I hear these answers, then I am really disappointed. I am not a member of your committee, so we do not often see each other, which I regret. We are intersecting in plenary and I hope that we will have a debate here on structural reform, on something big, on something that will make a substantial difference. What I keep seeing is how your government reaches out to a number of people who need it, but I see your government or you never come up with plans not only to reach out to them, but to straighten them out, to do something structural. Last week, an opinion paper in De Tijd said that if we compare the Belgian situation with the other countries of the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, then we see that there is a potential of EUR 80 billion. There is a potential for EUR 80 billion of additional income, so that additional social policies can be implemented by finally improving labour market policies, by ensuring that more people have a job and that pensions are better regulated. Madam Minister, we are once again discussing a temporary premium. I fully agree with Mr Colebunders. Why are we constantly talking about measures for three months? Why don't you keep looking? Why aren't these plans coming? I'm looking at that with big eyes. I couldn't help but think about it. The next item is a budget item. Madam Secretary of State sees these invoices coming all the time, but I suppose she would also like to see real work done on structural additional income that could ensure that this social model would be social and secure. Madam Minister, I look forward to sitting with you in plenary next time and hope that you will come up with a real plan of structural measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u75	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u76	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2286/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2286/4) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vanbesien, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u79	Madam President, I had some doubts about taking the floor and hoped that colleagues would do so. As no one has taken part in the debate, I would like to make a few comments. To begin with, I would like to point out that we are moving rather quickly over files with a huge budgetary impact. This bill amounts to EUR 827 million. These funds are intended to cover a number of very logical costs. For example, EUR 569 million will be entered for vaccines and EUR 68 million for investments in Infrabel that were needed as a result of the floods in Wallonia. In addition, some EUR 190 million will be allocated to other measures, including the increase in wages, as life will also be more expensive. So we are talking about more than EUR 827 million and hardly anyone is taking the floor. We have had a debate on this in committee, but let us be honest, Madam Secretary of State, those debates do not stand out in length either. Even if we are discussing a budgetary adjustment here and we are not conducting the major budget debate here, I do not want to point the finger at colleagues - I call on everyone to be careful when discussing a budget, especially when such large sums are at stake. As far as the core is concerned, firstly, with this draft law, you will include in the figures for 2021 the part of the 5.9 billion auctioned by the European Recovery Fund in the light of the corona crisis for Belgium. It is perfectly logical that this should be done by means of a budgetary adjustment. There was no other way, because the fund and course were the route and you could not predict how Europe would deal with it. You are therefore acting perfectly correctly here. Secondly, I would like to call on my fellow Members to bear in mind that the amount from the European corona fund, which we consider to be far too little in advance, will be reduced in several debates. There may be EUR 750 million less to be transferred to the Belgian budget. I asked you a question on this in committee. You referred me to Minister of Finance Van Peteghem. He replied, addressed by me, that he had no choice but to rely on the figures of the European Commission. The Spring Economic Forecast mentioned 5.9 billion. In the meantime, if I am not mistaken, the National Bank has calculated that, given, among other things, economic growth, we may actually get 750 million less. But one cannot be sure yet, one ignores one's own services and one continues to pretend that we will be able to count on the entire 5.9 billion. In the meantime, we have seen the budgetary tables for next year. The potential less revenue is not included. We still have to hold the debate on next year's budget and, as far as 2021 is concerned, a budgetary adjustment makes sense. But I would like to appeal to you so that next year's first adaptation paper does not have the same remark, namely that you will have entered the amount slightly too ambitiously. Secondly, your government is strongly committed to combating tax and social fraud by, among other things, investing in customs, which is equipped with additional scanners for containers in ports. I also asked the Minister for Finance about this. However, this project is being delayed tremendously. That means that in your budget you can pretend to spend 23.9 million less, which seems positive, but if you look a little further, you will see that the problem is getting bigger. As long as those scanners are not there, you will not be able to conduct your fight against fraud honestly and thoroughly. In short, ladies and gentlemen, be attentive to what is on the table here. Finally, there is, of course, funding to restore rail infrastructure in Wallonia. In addition, it is taken into account that insurance companies will not repay all the damage suffered. The total amount involved is approximately EUR 68 million. Madam Secretary of State, during the discussion in committee you pointed out that we could not possibly recover a third of that amount. I would also ask colleagues to be mindful of the fact that an amount of around EUR 20 million is likely to impose an additional burden on the budget in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u80	Mr Loones, you are always following things very closely, and that is good. There is indeed a need to debate the budget here, because it is about large sums. Most of the answers have already been given in committee. That is where the debate has already taken place. Also about the adaptation sheet, which is coming up. As soon as I have the information on the recovery fund, it will be incorporated into the budget. For customs scanners there may be a delay in the project. But that doesn't mean there's an impact on revenue. I follow that very closely and, of course, we are counting on the plan to provide the necessary revenue, as recorded in the budget. We have already discussed Wallonia's bill in committee. We will also monitor developments in this area in the future. We are talking about large amounts of money, but of course they also have to do with the corona pandemic. You yourself indicated that some of the funds are intended for the vaccines. I would rather not have to bring up such adaptation papers so frequently in committee and in Parliament. We all want the corona crisis to be over soon. The budget should then also normalise the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u81	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2262/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2262/1) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporter is Mrs. Cornet. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u85	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2244/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2244/4) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Bert Moyaers, Daniel Senesael, André Flahaut, Eva Platteau, Julie Song, Franky Demon, Tim Vandenput, Philippe Pivin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Thiébaut, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law aims to amend the law of 15 September 2013 on the notification of alleged breach of integrity in federal administrative authorities by their staff. In particular, it concerns the last paragraph of Article 2 of the above-mentioned Act, which has already been amended by Law of 8 May 2019, which provides that the Standing Committee P is competent when there is a presumed breach of integrity by a police officer and that infringement is reported. It was intended that the Standing Committee P would be responsible for such notifications. However, the Federal Ombudsman's annual report 2020 mentioned the lack of a definition of police officer. As a result, the general definition applies and a large number of police staff are not considered to be police officers. I am talking more specifically about the CALog staff, say all the administrative and logistical staff working with the integrated police. Those important forces were all the responsibility of the Federal Ombudsman when reporting on integrity. Pending a legislative amendment, both the Federal Ombudsman and the Standing Committee P concluded a cooperation protocol in this area. However, as a result, I was of the opinion that an amendment of the law really forced itself to do so. It is only desirable that all reports of integrated police personnel should be assessed by the Standing Committee P. After all, they all share the same workplace. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to amend the law accordingly. For the rest, I would just like to say a word of thanks. I would like to thank all Members for their strong support at committee meetings and for the spontaneous request of a large number of committee members to sign the bill and to strengthen it in this way. I would also like to thank them for their unanimous approval two weeks ago in the Committee on the Interior. Of course, it is only right that I should just thank the staff behind the scenes for putting their shoulders under the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u90	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u91	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2182/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2182/1) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip142x.u92	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Colleagues, for the bill (No. 2175) to make justice more humane, faster and firmer, Mrs De Wit has to present an oral report to us. Unfortunately, she's stuck in traffic. She's trying to reach us as soon as possible. I could have proposed that you proceed to the hearings, but the ministers concerned are not present either! I therefore propose that you suspend the meeting. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 25, 2021 at 5.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 November 2021 at 5.30 p.m.
