ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u3	Madam President, Mr Prévot was rapporteur for the discussion of the original draft law and I assume he refers to the written report for that purpose. As rapporteur, I will report orally on the committee meeting we have just had. The Economics Committee met today at 3:00 p.m. Mr Prévot first explained the amendments to the above-mentioned draft law. The amendments mean that a coronavoucher bank will be set up, a mechanism of government loans to tour operators for the reimbursement of the coronavouchers issued. He went over the various modalities for granting these loans and also pointed to the urgency of the draft, given the timing. That was when the debate opened. I referred to the very special way of working for the Chamber. I then explained two sub-amendments tabled by the N-VA Group in committee. Mr Vicaire van Ecolo-Groen then stated that his group would support the amendments. Mr Van Hecke said that Green would also support the amendments. After this, Mr Gilissen van Vlaams Belang pointed out that the largest amendment had nothing to do with the present draft and that the parliamentary rules were being violated. Mrs Matz of the CDH stressed the importance of finding a solution, both for the organisers and for consumers. However, she also expressed a great deal of concern about the method of working. Among other things, it stated that it would be necessary to seek the opinion of the European Commission, as well as the opinion of the Council of State, although in other circumstances. Mrs Verhelst of the Open Group also gave a brief response to the amendments tabled by the N-VA Group. Mr Van Besien of the Green Group then intervened with a question for the N-VA Group. Mr Patrick Prévot of the PS Group then replied to the many questions put by my fellow Members. State Secretary De Bleeker and Minister Dermagne then provided additional answers to the questions asked. The vote was then taken. Amendments Nos 1 and 2 were adopted unanimously. On Amendment No 3, there were two sub-amendments, both of which were tabled by the N-VA Group, each with 4 votes in favour and 10 against. Amendment No 3 was finally adopted unanimously. Finally, we had the roll-call votes on the draft law as a whole, which was unanimously adopted by 15 votes. The dossier was then referred to this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u4	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for the oral report. You will now have the floor again to speak on behalf of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u5	Madam President, I find it rather strange to have to re-examine the discussion we had less than an hour ago, so it will be in a slightly different version. For the report, however, I think it is important for us to have the opportunity to express the concerns we have expressed in this plenary session as well. Our group raises serious questions about the way in which we operate here. The government and Patrick Prévot repeatedly stressed when presenting the amendments that there is a real urgency for this draft, that we should not delay and that Parliament's rules should therefore be interpreted and applied with some flexibility and flexibility. That's special, isn't it? We have a Rules of Procedure for something. If we are unable to comply with these rules, then we can just as well throw them in the garbage and give ourselves our interpretation of those rules from now on. Moreover, we must not forget that this is an urgent matter that the government itself has created. We knew perfectly what the timing of the coronavouchers that were issued, that they were valid for a year, that a refund could then be requested and that there was then six months to provide for that refund. So it was perfectly possible to draw day by day when this problem would arise. Everyone thinks of the big names of tour operators, such as TUI or Neckermann, but we must not forget that they are also 400 SMEs with often poignant stories. For example, I've heard the story of a lady standing two years from her retirement. As you may know, tour operators often have to make payments in advance for flights, hotels and others. That lady herself had invested 200,000 euros in those advance payments and then came corona, causing her to lose everything. Everything she's worked for her whole life, she's lost. Those are terrible situations. Apparently, the government did not see the urgency of this. In December 2020, the N-VA Group put forward a very concrete proposal to set up a coronavoucher bank. We asked for urgency in January 2021. But apparently the majority didn't think it was urgent. The same majority is now coming to say that it is important and urgent. It's an urgency that she created herself. I hope that this may be a lesson and that, in future, we will look not so much at who is asking for urgency, but at what is being asked for urgency. Especially when other people are harmed by their own tallows. I'll talk about that later. Firstly, it is therefore a matter of urgency that the government itself has created. Secondly, and I have already mentioned this, Rule 90 of our Rules of Procedure makes it quite clear that amendments can be tabled to a draft law provided that they relate to the subject matter of the draft law on which the amendments are tabled. As you said yourself, Madam President, this is a draft law on the marketing and use of explosives precursors. This draft is now subject to an amendment on a coronavoucher bank. The link between the two completely escapes me. The only connection I can find between the explosives and the coronavoucher bank is that this has become an explosive file because of the government's lingering. I am glad to be able to say this to you now, Minister, because you were not present on the committee earlier, is that this has become an explosive dossier. I hear this is a one-time thing. This has been confirmed by both the Minister and the Secretary of State. Fortunately, the chairman of our committee has also insisted that this is a one-off. I really hope so, because this defies any imagination, I have to say as a lawyer. Another important element is that we have not asked for the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. If, therefore, the text contains a provision which does not comply with the rules in force in our country, then that is the responsibility of the government. I want to be very clear about that. We must not think about what it would mean if, afterwards, it proved that something was not correct and the travel organizations had to repay the money from the loans immediately. Because of the way in which the government has now acted, the responsibility lies with you and not with us. A common practice in our committee is a second reading, but that cannot be done now either. Despite the procedure followed, we have decided, constructively as we are, which cannot be said of the majority, to support the dossier. The file was already much delayed. We will not delay the entry into force of the text. In order not to leave the tour operators and consumers in the cold, we will cooperate and approve the text. So far, my comments on the general approach. As far as the content is concerned, the draft is in line with the proposal we have tabled. So I have very few comments to make on this. We have tabled two sub-amendments in committee. The first coronavouchers had to be repaid from September 20th, one year plus six months. Some tour operators were thus already legally obliged to pay back coronavouchers. A lot of people don't have the resources to do that. I don't have to explain to you why. They have often repaid this with personal capital. We did not think it fair to have to explain to them now that they could not get a loan because the government was groomed. That is why we have tabled a first sub-amendment. This means that those who have already paid back coronavouchers since 20 September and can, of course, put the necessary evidence on the table must also be able to make use of the loan. Unfortunately, the amendment was not adopted in committee. [[Rumur on the benches]] Mr President, may I ask that colleagues keep their coffee chatter out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u6	Colleagues, may I ask for some silence? Dear colleagues, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u7	The majority has already shown enough respect for the opposition. We are now very accommodating, so they at least listen to our explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u8	Proceed, Mrs. Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u9	The first sub-amendment was not accepted, as the measure could be regarded as prohibited State aid. The fact that companies repaid the vouchers would be just proof that they could actually repay. That is, of course, a very strange reasoning; it was precisely because of the delays of the government that they were obliged to repay the vouchers. It is the government's responsibility to explain to those people why they have had to pay it from their own resources and will not be able to avail themselves of that loan. A second sub-amendment we have tabled concerns insolvency insurance. A budget of EUR 210 million is foreseen to be able to repay the coronavouchers. We know that this is more than the outstanding amount of coronavouchers, so we had proposed to make the balance of that amount available to the tour operators to pay their insolvency insurance. After all, they are obliged by Europe to take out insolvency insurance. As from 31 December, this insolvency insurance will cease and a case-by-case assessment will be made of who can take out a new insurance policy. The problem is, however, that these people currently have very little resources, which means that the policy will be much higher if they can get insurance again. That is why our proposal to use the balance of the amount provided for in order to meet the tour operators in this area. As the oral report shows, both sub-amendments have not been adopted. We regret that, but it is what it is. I hope, above all, that we have learned from this dossier that it is sometimes not so bad to listen to the opposition too. We are as good as the only group that has repeatedly asked questions about those coronavouchers and has repeatedly asked to find a solution to them. In the Netherlands, the coronavoucherbank has existed since spring. Since spring, loans have been given to the tour operators in the Netherlands. So it's possible, but with us, the government has been too long. So please, let's work together in a different way in the future. Not in front of the beautiful eyes of one or the other, but in the greater interest, in this particular case that of the tour operators. Yes, Mrs De Block, that would bear witness to the ability to look at the greater interest and not just party politics. I think you'd be honored. It would also make the citizen less disliked by politics. We asked for urgency, but it was refused by the majority. Now you are asking for urgency and we are constructive. We will cooperate, because we are thinking of that greater importance. Hopefully we can at least learn that lesson from it. As a lawyer, I am ashamed of what we are doing here and the way in which this is decided in this House. In the greater interest of tour operators and consumers, we will also support the draft law here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u10	Madam President, I would nevertheless like to stress that, if we were not attentive to the intervention of my colleague Mrs Van Bossuyt, it is because, as she herself pointed out, the debate has just taken place in committee. We were, a few minutes ago, very attentive to what she was saying. I think that is the only one who has spoken at length. I will be content to be direct and brief, on the substance and not too much on the form. Ladies and gentlemen, through these vouchers amendments, it is an urgent matter that we are going to vote for a sector which has been forced to stop its activities almost completely following the health crisis, and whose financial losses are heavy. To help him, the previous government had already set up this system of corona vouchers. It allowed the consumer's refund obligation to be suspended by a voucher valid for one year, then repayable within six months if not used. These vouchers were covered by corporate insolvency insurance. Since mid-March, travellers have been able to claim reimbursement for their trip. In total, more than 200,000 vouchers were issued for an amount of EUR 356 million. It's an amount that weighs, since then, on travel agencies, like a real sword of Damocles. On many occasions in committee, and even here in plenary, I have recalled the need to find a solution for the travel agency sector. Five hundred of them are threatened and no less than 1,600 jobs are also threatened according to Graydon's figures. This has been confirmed today in committee: it has not been simple, but there is finally an agreement, through this system of state loans whose timing is very tight. That's right. Agencies must apply between November 10 and 16. It is very short, but the priority of the majority, and especially of my group, is to save as many businesses as possible and, indirectly of course, to help consumers. We can indeed discuss without end the method of reaching a vote today. It should be remembered that the pandemic is also unprecedented, and that, for us, the priority is the survival of the travel sector, especially since – and this is another positive point – this loan scheme will also protect insurers who, without a solution, should have covered the insolvency of the tour operators. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group naturally supports these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u11	Madam President, we have just had a good committee meeting in which everyone has listened to each other. I am pleased that the government expressed its apologies for the form at the committee meeting. It was clearly stated that both the Cabinets and the Members of Parliament do not feel well on the way here. The Cabinets were aware of the urgency, but at the committee meeting a cabinet representative just stated that they were already working on it from October last year. However, progress can only be achieved if all stakeholders agree. An agreement must be made together. As long as the agreement is not ready, it cannot be presented. So the urgency was invoked because the agreement is only now ready. The Cabinets themselves were frustrated about the number in the project, but other actors, such as the insurance sector, had to be able to participate. Deadlines can be imposed, but only now everyone felt that it had to be done, because it had to be done. The government had the will to settle this earlier, but unfortunately it did not succeed. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you have followed this very closely in committee and asked a lot of questions about it. I think everyone understood the importance of resolving this as soon as possible. Personally, I don't think games were being played. Everyone chooses for the same purpose, for a solution, and I do not think that there were any other interests involved, since everyone is on the same page about the solution. I believe that everyone is now very satisfied with the solution that has been achieved. The comment on the form was right, and we too were unhappy about it. I understand the frustration in this matter. We share that feeling, and so does the government. We must not keep anyone waiting for a solution any longer. Madam President, we are very pleased that we can now finally offer a solution to both consumers and travel agencies. Due to the urgent procedure, this was achieved before the autumn holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u12	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you said in the report that the N-VA sub-amendment, which you explained, was not accepted by the majority. I would like to explain why that was not accepted. The Secretary of State had that sorted out and said that if we adopted that sub-amendment, there was a high risk that it would be interpreted by Europe as unlawful state aid. If that were the case, the whole law would be annulled. In order to avoid that risk, it was decided not to accept the sub-amendment. So it is not just about majority opposition, it is for that reason that it was not accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u13	Mr Van Besien, I was there and I heard that. Moreover, I did not say that it was a matter of majority versus opposition on the sub-amendment. You will have to admit that it is because of the number that these organisers have fallen victim in the interim period. They could not call on the loan, while others could. There is therefore a problem for these organisations that could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u14	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to start over the whole debate that we have had in committee, which has been fed up enough, with questions and answers. Many excuses were also made by the minister regarding the form. As far as we are concerned, what we are interested in is the substance, although the form has been of some importance since it has not allowed us to consult the Council of State. However, we have some doubts about a number of points. I will return here only to the point where we will abstain from the draft under consideration. As I have already had the opportunity to say, we are obviously in favour of the repayments that are being discussed. But we will abstain, because we have not received any appeasement on a point of law. Indeed, when I asked you, Minister, if the European Commission had been consulted, you replied that it was in progress. It is therefore consulted a posteriori when it should have been consulted prior to the consideration of this project. In my view, the European Commission will not consider the scheme to be valid. The fear that I tried to express in committee, but perhaps I made myself misunderstood, relates to litigation in civil courts. As the deadline is exceeded, a challenge to the Council of State is not possible. Thus, for example, a court could declare that the two orders on which the reimbursement is based are unlawful. In doing so, the whole system would fall. This is our fear for the people concerned. My reasoning is based in particular on France, which has a system which is almost similar to ours, and on which the French Council of State has expressed the greatest reservations by asking questions to the Court of Justice, whose answers it knows more or less, namely that this system is not in conformity with European law. If, at any time, an individual decision is taken in Belgium, the European Commission is consulted and the Commission, in its opinion, provides that the scheme is not in conformity, on the basis of what is happening in other States, this individual decision will not be applied to that situation alone by the Commission. This is likely to cause oil damage and affect all the situations that have resulted in a refund. That's what I'm afraid of. For this reason, because we do not have a guarantee that the scheme will comply with European law, we will abstain from this project. We believe that the good of consumers also depends on legally shielded measures. As explained, the project was developed quickly, under complicated negotiating conditions, which were difficult with a number of partners. Of course, there is an agreement, but if this agreement is intended, in a few weeks or months' time, to be defeated because the basis for taking this refund is not valid, basically, we will not have won anything. I could wash my hands and say that it is the government's responsibility, that it deals with its problems. But I don't want to play that game. I want to draw your attention again to the risk of frailty of the device, arrests that necessarily serve as a basis for it. For this reason, our group will abstain on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u15	Madam President, it is with great sincerity that I thank the colleagues, and especially those of the opposition, who have had to endure, as we, members of the majority – but we will say that it is a little more comfortable in the majority, though! –, a somewhat tortuous path, a path that does not respect parliamentary customs and customs. I believe that both the Secretary of State and Minister Dermagne were able to apologise personally and also on behalf of the government. As I said earlier in my speech, I have never been a minister, but I do not think that a minister is happy when he arrives before a Parliament, before a committee, with a path as crooked as that one. This path has been imposed by a whole series of elements on which I will not return. I'm not going back to the mechanism either. I think he's been widely explained. As I was present in the Committee on Health, I did not hear your report, which certainly had to be excellent, Mrs Van Bossuyt. I would just like to recall the difficulty and the fact that the government has been manoeuvring since the spring, as he pointed out. This agreement is based on a balance that has had to be struck after very long negotiations. As I said in committee last week, I was asked to be ready to introduce this amendment and defend it among you. Perhaps it could have been done under much more convenient conditions, with an emergency passage in committee. Unfortunately, at the last moment, I received a phone call, including from the firm, who told me that the negotiations could not be completed. It was thought at that time that there would be no agreement and that, therefore, there was a high risk of great difficulties for travel agencies. This is obviously the side of the Committee on the Economy, Business Support. With this potential fragility for travel agencies, there was obviously also a risk that consumers could not be reimbursed. So there was a double risk that was still very real until a few days ago. Then this agreement finally came. I'm not going back to the bottom. It has been discussed at length. That's a good thing. Even if everyone, the majority and the opposition, could deplore the parliamentary process and the fact that we had to work under more than particular conditions, I still heard - as I said, I am a resolutely positive person - that no one questioned the fact that this text was necessary and essential for travel agencies and consumers, also with the measures that were imposed notably by the National Bank of Belgium with this ceiling of EUR 3 million in order to avoid putting the insurance sector into difficulties. We come with a balanced text, certainly under special conditions, but I think that this text is necessary. That is why, Madam President, I wanted to make a flea jump in plenary before returning to the Health Committee. I wanted to recall these few elements and thank, once again, my colleagues and especially those of the opposition who do not obstruct this text and which will allow it to be voted on today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u16	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u17	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2163/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2163/7) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending the Act of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors and laying down provisions for loans granted to tour operators for the repayment of vouchers issued in accordance with the Ministerial Decree of 19 March 2020 on the reimbursement of cancelled package travel". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No. 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and laying down provisions on loans granted to tour operators for the reimbursement of vouchers issued in accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 on the reimbursement of cancelled package travel'. The bill has 43 articles. The draft law has 43 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 43 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 to 43 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. [+ ] Ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to the conclusion of the work of the Committee on Public Health. I announce that we have just received the opinion of the Council of State in French. I therefore propose that you suspend the sitting pending the conclusion of the work of the Committee on Public Health. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u18	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u19	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to make a report as quickly and comprehensive as possible, first of all recalling that during these intense exchanges – five hours of debate – the committee first conducted a debate on the working methodology. Mrs Merckx and Mrs Fonck deplored the poor working method for Parliament. Like Ms. Sneppe and Mr. Boukili, they also referred to the absence of the opinion of the Data Protection Authority (DPA) and the need for its regulatory disposition. A suspension of the Committee's work until the receipt of the ODA opinion was also requested by Ms. Sneppe. The Minister recognizes that the way it is done is not normal, but believes that the situation requires urgent reaction. The Minister indicated that he had adapted the text to many of the Council of State's remarks, which he had taken into account. With regard to the processing of this data, however, he said that what is on the table concerns competences and that there are no changes to be made to the data processed and how they will be processed. The data regime concerned does not change, so the opinion of ODA is not necessary. It also recalls that entities must always be able to carry out an autonomous policy regarding the Covid Safe Ticket (CST), despite the fact that the Federal Pandemic Law is activated. The measures under way, particularly in Brussels, must be able to continue to be applied. This has not been thought out in the work of the Pandemia Law and the Cooperation Agreement. It is therefore imperative to provide an answer. A suspension of the session until the receipt of the ODA opinion was requested by the PTB and Vlaams Belang. N-VA requested further work on the substance, while seeking the opinion of ODA. Mr. Prévot acknowledged that the way to work on the text was far from optimal, but that there was also a need to move forward and discuss the substance of the text. The request for an ODA opinion and the request for a suspension of work were rejected by the Panel. The minister then recalled the current epidemiological situation, almost recalling an increase of 99% in Flanders, 64% in Wallonia and 34% in Brussels, where the figures were already very high. He also mentioned an average of 125 daily admissions, with significant increases throughout the Region. We are therefore in a situation which is widespread throughout the country. The Minister indicated that a strong legal basis is needed, which will be possible through the reactivation of the Pandemic Act. He said that, in addition to this, it was also necessary to allow an autonomous policy of the federated entities in the field of CST, by adapting the cooperation agreement. Entities will be able to take more stringent measures. The Minister then summarized the changes made by the draft and the consent agreement and, in response to Ms. Depoorter's request, confirmed that the panel could have the opinions of the RAG, the GEMS and the covid secretariat, requiring the activation of the Pandemic Act. Ms. Depoorter indicated that the application of the CST, which now varies according to the regions, will be the subject of a federal foundation. It therefore calls for an evaluation to be planned. It requested practical clarifications on the implementation of the measures, including the designation of the activities and the thresholds of the persons concerned. She finally referred to the remarks made by the Council of State. Ms. Hmente noted the need to activate the Pandemic Law when necessary and indicated that her group would support the project. Mr Prévot felt it was necessary to understand the epidemiological urgency, felt that the minister's arguments were convincing and said that his group would also support the text. Vlaams Belang went back to the health figures and asked what studies showed the interest of the CST; he felt that different elements were not clarified in the agreement. Thus, it was clarified that the Vlaams Belang would not support the project. Ms Taquin for the MR group said that her group would support the text, while regretting the timing of the decisions. It highlighted the difficulties encountered by the municipalities in implementing the measures. It knows this more than anyone since as a mayor, it also has difficulties in giving clear measures and answers to the citizens waiting. Ms Farih said that she understood the frustrations of the opposition but also felt that the situation required us to move very quickly. His group would therefore support the text. Mr. Boukili felt that the adoption of this law was a renunciation of the work of parliamentarians. He affirmed the need for a democratic debate and returned to the discussions on the Pandemic Law. He felt that the CST was being extended while it divided the population. Mrs De Jonge for the VLD Group, like Mrs Jiroflée for Vooruit, felt that the situation was urgent and said that their group would therefore support the project. Ms. Fonck, for her part, asked the minister why he was going through an amendment to the cooperation agreement instead of making an order in connection with the pandemic law. She mentioned a legal puzzle concerning, inter alia, the date of entry into force. She asked for clarification on the wording of the proposed amendments, particularly when referring to the fact that regional provisions cannot conflict with federal provisions. It also requested clarification on criminal sanctions and on the monitoring of applications used. In response, the Minister re-explained that he did not follow the advice of the Council of State on two points, namely, asking for a new opinion from ODA and mentioning the concrete modalities that should be included in the agreement. For the rest, the draft was indeed adapted and clarified, following the advice of the Council of State. With regard to the area of temporal application mentioned by Mrs Fonck, the Minister explained that he had taken up a suggestion from the Council of State. He indicated that the Brussels Order would be amended to allow for an extension of its coming into force. He also provided clarifications on how to apply the CST and how to wear the mask on the basis of the federal foundation created. The Minister confirmed that there was no use of the CST in the workplace as well as in public transportation. He confirmed the need for a clear communication specifically with regard to the mayors. With regard to sanctions, if there was a criminal sanction, he had confirmed that the police were still competent. Federal and regional inspection services will be able to respond to situations. As part of the replies, various practical questions on specific situations were asked by N-VA and Vlaams Belang regarding the use and control of the CST application. Ms. Taquin explained that these elements were addressed, among other things, in Regional Circulars and FAQs. Mr. Boukili once again regretted the absence of the ODA opinion and the fact that the opinion of the Council of State had not been followed as a whole. Mrs Fonck once again regretted the legal imbroglio and the lack of federal control, as provided for in the Pandemic Act. At the request of the President, a discussion took place on the need for the opinion of the Council of State in both languages. Since a consensus was needed to continue the work and following the challenges of the PTB, Vlaams Belang and N-VA, the committee had to wait for the version in both languages before voting. After receiving the opinion in both languages, the draft was adopted by 11 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions. Before we start a debate that – I am sure – will be as rich here as it was in committee, I would like to thank my colleague who helped me write this report as soon as possible and who is currently preparing, because life continues, cookies for her little girl who is celebrating her birthday tomorrow and to whom I wish a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u21	Thank you, Mr Rigot, for the report, to which I shall nevertheless add a number of additions. However, I promise you that we will not start the whole discussion again. However, it is about an important agreement. What strikes me is the communication around that agreement. At the start of the committee meeting, the Minister for Health explained his view on the urgency. About the same time, our Prime Minister answered questions about the corona measures and their urgency. Colleagues, I would like to outline the Prime Minister's answers. After all, I have heard him talk about an autumn wave taking place all over Europe. There is indeed virus circulation, as we all know, but there are also great differences in vaccination rates in Europe. What my group has said on many occasions is that it is not the level of infection that is the most important, but the degree of disease that we are facing or might be facing. The Prime Minister also cited the delta variant. The delta variant has been dominant in our region for some time. We know that it is a highly contagious variant, but we also know that our vaccines protect against that variant. The Prime Minister has raised all kinds of percentages, but has stressed above all that the vaccine does not protect 100%. That is also obvious, it would be a real miracle if it were to protect 100% against hospitalization and serious illness. Minister, one criticism that my group has often voiced about last week's panic communication, both from you and from the Prime Minister and the Vivaldi coalition, is that you have not reassured the people. In fact, the message should always be that who is vaccinated and healthy, and also careful in places where many people come together, is protected. Anyone could get sick. Unfortunately, it is a fact that we policy makers cannot circumvent this fact. Stop panicking in communication. We must at all times make it very clear to our people that a vaccine is a protection. Mr De Roover has therefore also clearly put the focus on the roll-out of the third prick. The advice of the Hoge Gezondheidsraad was requested on the initiative of the Flemish government for the broad roll-out of the third prick. That is a good thing. You're shaking from no, but we've heard this from someone who's on that Supreme Health Council. You can contradict that later, but that's what they're letting on from the Supreme Health Council. You and some of your colleagues, as well as experts, are here to make it very clear that this is too early. An opinion and a little foresight as a government, as a policymaker, can never be too early. We need to know very clearly what we're doing. We must always measure and measure correctly. We have another idea there too. If we want to know how dangerous the circulation of the virus is today, we need to know how many people are in intensive care, how many people get seriously ill, how many people die from covid. In committee, you clearly told me this week that you have no idea how many people die from intensive care because of covid, but with covid. I also spoke to you about wastewater screening. Mrs Gijbels will fill me in on that later. You have indicated that from now on you will monitor this at Mrs Gijbel's initiative. From the wastewater screening, the autumn wave the Prime Minister talked about cannot be made so clear. In addition, we must be correct. Provinces have been cited and reproduction numbers quoted. The province of Limburg has also been cited. That's one of the frontrunners, because there's an incredible viral circulation. In Limburg, 6% of intensive care is occupied by covid patients. When we talk about reproduction numbers and virus circulation, we have to give clear figures. We need to measure, and by measuring, we can know, as my group has said to you on a number of occasions. I would like to add the advice of the corona commissioner to the government on this urgency. I am sure that the honourable Member will raise these figures and this urgency in the course of the debate. This opinion has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament. It is hallucinating that such opinions should be requested at a committee meeting just before the vote, but it has now been distributed. It clearly states that by the end of November, this situation could translate into an ICU tax of 400 people, that in the case of disappointing curves, this tax could reach 550 people by early December and that this flare-up could lead to a higher hospital tax than what we have known between August and mid-October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u23	Madam President, I do not normally interrupt, but clearly look alongside the facts and say factually wrong things at the beginning of this debate, which is really not possible. I did not want to interrupt you in committee, Mrs Depoorter, because time had already gone so far, but you also said things that are unlikely. I'd like you to listen to a few figures. You have just said in committee that the ICU occupation by covid patients in hospitals is only 5%. You told me that for what, but it's completely wrong. The lowest figure is indeed that of Limburg, which is not 6% as you said, but 8%. For the rest, these figures are much higher in Flanders than the 5% you mentioned. I'm going to give you a few examples. I will leave it at that, but please stick to the facts. The occupation of people with covid on intensive care is today an average of 13% in Belgium. In the province of Antwerp it is 13 %. In the province of Hainaut it is 8 %. Should we say that there is only one problem in Wallonia? If one looks at the infections: in Antwerp 569 per 100,000 inhabitants; in Hainaut 426. So both the occupation of ic-beds and the number of infections are more serious in the province of Antwerp than in Hainaut. That 5% that you have debated in committee on the occupation of intensive care in Flanders is for me not'restored' but 'lie'. Such a thing for true telling is not reassuring but lying. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Is there a fourth wave or not? If we look at the latest figures with the weekly averages of infections, I mean the ones that have been published and not the figures that have arrived tonight, it appears that the weekly average has increased by 75%. In Flanders at 99%, in Wallonia at 64% and in Brussels at 34%, starting from a much higher level in Brussels and Wallonia than in Flanders. Do you really want to deny the light of the sun here? Was it used to serve someone in a Flemish hospital? Does that serve one Flemish general practitioner? Does that serve one Flemish nurse? Is that for one Flemish care professional? Does that serve one Flemish patient? Stop denying the numbers. Stop it. I'm not going back to it. You tell so many things that are wrong. With other colleagues in the committee, we have difficult and sharp debates. I don't convince them, they don't convince me. But you are unique, unique in telling things that are manifestally wrong. Manifest factually incorrect. That's really your hallmark. What kind of story do you tell about the third shot? We have asked the Supreme Health Council for an open opinion on the next steps, with special attention to the care staff. We will be able to decide Saturday morning on this and people with comorbidities. Special attention is also paid to all people who have received the AstraZeneca or the Janssen vaccine. So far, individual experts tell me if they are wrong and something else is coming out of the bus, I will accept that it is too early to give any advice with ground under my feet for a third shot for the whole population. What's our attitude? Once the Supreme Health Council has data that allows us to say that the entire population needs a third shot, we need to get that advice. That is our attitude and that is a correct attitude. Please don't imagine it any different than it is. Please do not give the impression that you know what the Supreme Health Council will say, if you do not know at all. For the rest, I would like to differ from others, Mr President, but on such a serious issue people constantly say things that are factually wrong in the hemisphere, where it is recorded in reports, I could not let that pass without correcting it. I apologize for interrupting the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u24	Minister, I would like to point out that I used the figures from the weekly tables in committee. You're using the numbers that appeared today. With numbers, we can magic and prove everything. You just did it. I did not hear you talk about Brussels; I did not hear you talk about Luxembourg with 23% occupation of IA, Minister. You won't argue with that. That's right: the figure comes from the site of Sciensano. Nor will you contradict the fact that you have no awareness of the number of vaccinated persons on IZ who are present there because they have symptoms of COVID, or because they have another disease and have been vaccinated. You can't argue, because you don't know. Then what bothers me about your discourse is that you tell the truth, as you always tell it. Mr. Secretary, what you do very handy, over and over again, is to hide things. In my upbringing, silence is also a lie, silence is not informing a population, it is frightening citizens, it is ensuring that wrong things are communicated. The Prime Minister mentioned this afternoon the delta variant, which has been dominant for so long. I asked you in committee if there is another variant. After all, I would be concerned if another variant were to endanger our vaccines at the moment. Then you would be honest, if you would now communicate that you have indeed stated that there is no other variant that you are concerned about. As far as the High Health Council is concerned, you are actually blaming me for what I am blaming you for, because you are glad to announce in the television studios that you do not really think it is appropriate to ask the question about the third prick today. Yes, you put them in general, but again you have not acted proactively. That's what the Flemish government did for you. Then I find it particularly regrettable that you are distracting attention from a problem. You are here to tell us that you have asked for the advice on the third injection for the caregivers and for whom the Janssen vaccine has been given, avoiding the fact that you are not preparing the broad roll-out today. The advice has been requested. It will be up to you to contradict the experts of the Supreme Health Council. With regard to the urgency of activating the pandemic law, you are setting the bar to sideline Parliament, very low. You're not going deep enough. You have tabled a text which we have discussed for hours. Why? That is because it is a vague text that does not give legal certainty and because you could not answer pertinent questions, which I asked you. You didn't have an answer to that. That too is a fact, Minister. You did not respond to one of the most important opinions of the Council of State. You will not disagree with this very clearly, because you do not have an answer to the question that the number of people taking part in an action cannot be decisive as a concrete implementation mode. So you have no implementation modality. You are talking about numbers for a mass event, and you want to put that into a KB, but the Council of State clearly says that the KB is not sufficient when it comes to powers that also concern the Länder. You need an implementing decision on a cooperation agreement, but you deliberately do not go into that point because you find it easy to vote on a rule, without giving you any certainty. We also discussed the local authorities in committee, and that was a very emotional discussion. I have heard that only the French-speaking mayors have consistently done their job. I take note of that. The local authorities will have to bind today as regards the built-up autonomy. I think we are all convinced that the local authorities in the pandemic have been the strongholds. After all, you are not coming up with a legally certain text today and you are actually making the same mistake, which has been made very often in the pandemic. You offer no clarity and the mayor will have to interpret and wait for a FAQ. So part of the mayor's autonomy is being taken away. However, the Flemish government has ensured that the mayor, in consultation with the governor, could take very targeted measures towards the population, if there are clusters. You overrulet that at this point. The notification of the Consultation Committee also states that the Land of Flanders has taken note of the epidemiological emergency situation. I repeat it again, because I really do not want to hear again in a subsequent discussion the so-called non-true facts. If we say anything, then we have really looked into it and we are sure of our case. I asked you how you'd deal with a dance club dancing in a party room, so catering. You couldn't answer that. You can't answer that. You don't see what it's like today. You also have no answer as to whether a business restaurant which is accessible to others than the employees, whether or not it is covered by the measures for the catering industry. There are many uncertainties in the text that you are presenting here. You mentioned the numbers of the events, but they still have to be incorporated into a royal decree. That has yet to be agreed between the coalition partners. I have the impression that there is no consensus on this either. I have asked you a number of questions about enforcement. You have given a very confusing and unclear answer. That is what the report says, by the way. You referred to the local police, but the counseling of those local police is not entirely clear. You do not consider it necessary to seek a further opinion from the Data Protection Authority. That was clear in committee. However, we insist on the fact that proportionality has changed completely and that there is once again uncertainty there. That uncertainty characterizes the measures you want to take. Mr Minister, I am still not clear about the phrase 'the appointment of the introduction of the CST in the catering industry is a political agreement, but nothing has been done in legal terms'. That's gonna be a tough one. So there is no legislative framework, as you said in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u25	Madam President, I am reluctant to interrupt. Mrs. Depoorter, it's so exhausting, you always turn around what has been said. I have said that there is a difference between the legal framework and that leaves the regions free to introduce the CST into the catering industry or not and to abolish it. The legal framework places that power on them. We also agree in our country on the policy in the Conciliation Committee. Those are political agreements, they are policy agreements. It happens all the time. Are you all right, Mrs. Depoorter? Let me give you an example: two municipal authorities, who agree to do something together, although they themselves are individually competent. Are you okay? Do you understand? Do I have to repeat it again? You're constantly twisting everything I've said. I'm willing to stay here all night trying to improve what you're saying, but I find it a little tiring. I would like us to be able to come up with the right facts and a correct representation of the arguments, even though I do not always agree with your arguments and you do not agree with mine. At least try to stick to the facts and not constantly twist what someone has said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u26	Is it true, Minister, that you do not have a legal framework requiring the introduction of CST in the catering industry? Can you say that in the micro?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u27	How is it possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u28	I think I should stay mainly in politics. Do you know why? Because I want to offer clear communication to the citizens. You're twisting my words by saying it's not right what I'm saying. You believe that you have the right to state in an official sitting that what I say as a representative of the people is not correct. There is not much you can do about it, because I was elected by the people. I leave in the middle how many votes you have received, but it is a pity that you want to be right and that you are twisting words in order to be right in the end. You don't have a legal quay. I know what I'm saying. It's not about me being the smartest, it's about me being the one who makes sure our citizens know what they're up to. I am talking about giving a clear answer and putting in place a law that will ensure that there are no legal proceedings. That's all I care about. That's what our advisors are all about, and they've been looking at how things are. I'm gonna close with that fact. There is no legal framework to impose this obligation in the hospitality sector, and that also shows that communication with citizens has been extremely difficult. No one knows what to do anymore. You will have a lot of work to do with clarification. You will also have a great deal of work to put the law into a manageable form. There are also a lot of answers to be given, for example about the dance association or the film club that organises an evening in a party room. The only answer you had is the fact that this cooperation agreement de facto opens the way mainly to the voluntary introduction of the CST by certain organisations and the mandatory introduction of the CST with certain criteria, which you will put into a royal decree and not into an implementing agreement. This agreement actually amounts to the introduction of the CST. As far as the duty of mouth masking is concerned, I think it would be easier to waterproof a package legally. I'm sure we'll talk about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u29	Mr Minister, I will not repeat everything I said at the committee meeting or what I said last month, but I would like to make a few comments and reservations. The first is the late publication of the document and the opinions. In other words, the opinions are still lacking. This is not the first time, but it seems to be the normal course of action here. It is only a matter of waiting for a law to put that difficult Parliament completely out of play. Mr. Secretary, we will continue to charge your way of working. In the previous amendment to this cooperation agreement, I quoted my good colleague Creyelman: "Within the shortest possible time, the Covid Safe Ticket will be a kind of generally accepted health access ticket for café, restaurant, bar, cinema and library." That's where we're at now. Anyone who wants to go to a café must present a Covid Safe Ticket. This also applies to those who want to go to sports, at least if they want to work out because dancing is obviously allowed again. You can't do it, can you? How's that right? Maybe one can mainly dance to the tune of the vivaldi parties. The question that needs to be asked is what you want to achieve. In our view, that is a not insignificant question. I'm gonna take a look at the story of the driving, the seat belt and the brakes that you mentioned on the committee. It is only when the brakes are tested that we are sure of their operation. So you can't be safe until you're tested. What do you want to achieve with your measures? Is it still about health? Indeed, vaccinees may still be infected and transmit the virus. What is the point of giving the green light to vaccinees? If it's really about health, why isn't there any more use on immunity data? More and more countries are abolishing the corona restrictions, but in this country they are still a little intertwined. Again, what are you trying to do with that? In our view, this even creates a false sense of security. It is even possible that with the extension and broadening of the Covid Safe Ticket you can achieve the opposite, namely more infections. A CST gives a false sense of safety. This way you will ensure that vaccinated infected persons will spread the virus. But you will of course continue to accuse the non-vaccines, because you believe that it is still the pandemic of the non-vaccines, and your vivaldiklekleik. In Sciensano's statistics on wastewater screening, I see that the curve in most places already makes a deflection. If I interpret that correctly, that means that the infections are already decreasing. Your urgency is referred to the trash. The GBA also states, following the previous adjustment, that the CST is applicable only if its relevance, i.e. its suitability, is demonstrated, for the purpose pursued, the necessity and proportionality of the CST on the basis of factual and concrete elements. According to the same GBA, which of course you have no longer asked for advice from, the introduction of such a corona pass is certainly contrary to the fundamental rights of all citizens. Yes, Minister, of all citizens. Nor is it intended to make the Covid Safe Ticket mandatory in the workshop, as you said last time. That's right, but it's not illegal either. And what do we hear today? The umpteenth balloon has already been provoked by the technology federation Agoria, which advocates the introduction of such a card at work. You are still at the stage of denial, but we can expect it to be only a matter of a few weeks before you will introduce it. Minister, in your statement to the committee, you said that this adjustment will lead to the right of the federated entities to decide. That's right, but only in the sense of entanglement. It may be stricter than what is federally decided, but it is not allowed to relax. Pay attention, Minister, before you jump out of your skin. Let me get back to you, as you have explained about this cooperation agreement, but you also have a political agreement with the federated entities, which means that this is not allowed anymore. We have therefore been discussing the amendment of a cooperation agreement throughout the afternoon, which is losing all its substance by means of a political agreement. Flanders, with a vaccination rate of 90%, may impose more rules and restrictions on its population. But we must not keep the promise that a 70% vaccination rate will lead to freedom. The decision not to introduce the CST is not allowed. However, the Corona Commissioner states that we are at level 3 at national level, although all Flemish provinces are at levels 1 and 2. However, Flanders must not relax, because you have pushed a political agreement down our throats. That's it for the equivalence of the different levels. Of course, we are not going to get much further with a prime minister who is doing a good job. Mr Minister, I would like to end here with the same decision as in the previous adjustments a month ago. The Flemish interest is already a hard opponent of such a control company when you leave your balloon over the coronapas. We would like to emphasise this once again. Freedom-limiting measures are not normal for the Flemish interest. A QR code society is not normal and is not what we want. Sow fear is not normal and causes segregation and discord among the population. Restricting fundamental rights isn't normal. To prove that one is healthy is not normal. The whole mischief policy, for a year and a half, is not normal. Mr Minister, a health card is really not possible for us. We will therefore not support the adaptation and cooperation agreement tout court for four important reasons. Vaccination must remain voluntary. Citizens should not carry out public service tasks. The medical secret must remain secret. The introduction of a corona pass in a region where 90% of people have been vaccinated is not a policy but a mispolicy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u30	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about this cooperation agreement with a view to adapting it, in order to bring it into line with the new pandemic law that will enter into force. First of all, I would like to go back to this pandemic law that we want to put in place. It is a law that will deprive this Parliament of its right as legislator to act on this crisis, a law that will deprive the deputies present here of exercising their right to representation of the population. This pandemic law is a symbol of Parliament's renunciation of its power. We will therefore endorse the fact that ministers decide and that Parliament gives the keys. Citizens, on the other hand, are only informed. It is therefore a law of special powers disguised. I was already saying that Parliament was seen as an endorsing chamber, but with this decision, we are going a step further. Minister, we have a completely different vision. We believe that the best decisions are made within the widest groups for such important measures that affect health and fundamental rights and freedoms. We need a democratic debate that involves the first concerned with the measures to be taken. I'm going to quote Marius Gilbert, who is no longer introduced. He tells us explicitly: "The result of asking for the opinion of the public is that people feel more listened to. They also see that people in whom they can recognize themselves are consulted. This is based on the legitimacy of decisions and can lead to ideas that are more rooted in people's experiences." These people are caregivers, who are on the front line in hospitals. It is the teachers, who are on the front line in the schools. It is the actors of culture who are led to play the police during their events and performances. The voice of the workers counts, and they have something to bring. We must dare to open this debate to include workers, caregivers, heroes of the covid-19 crisis. People are seeking this democracy and participation. They are also concerned, like me, about this law because it is also a threat to our rights and freedoms. It has been seen that during the covid crisis, fundamental rights were put on the closet, while 40 per cent of clusters originated in companies. You've always made the choice of hitting people's privacy, but also cutting the tap of protest. The demonstrations were restricted, as were the trade unionists who received co-vid fines while protesting in a secure manner and respecting the rules against the conviction of 17 of them for malicious obstruction of traffic during a strike. Meanwhile, workers are piled up in public transport. There was no problem with the virus! In an open-air demonstration that respects the rules, fines are imposed, but crowded public transport is not a problem - the virus is not circulating! Today, there are grunt movements going on right now on the energy price, on the climate, on the wage freeze; people are tired of having difficult endings of months and they are afraid of the world they are going to leave to their children. They have the right to express it and to make it known. There is no question of gagg democracy and the right to challenge by further restrictions on democratic rights. This cooperation agreement does not adopt any measure. This is an extension of the Covid Safe Ticket (CST), a measure that divides the population while we need unity to fight the virus. It can be seen that this measure is being maintained, extended and gradually extended. The Data Protection Authority (DPA) had warned us of the risk of habituation and of a supervisory company. In fact, you refused to seek the opinion of ODA, which was recommended in the opinion of the Council of State. You, you consider the ODA notice to be secondary and you go over it. You also feel that the Council of State's remark on the duty to consult ODA is a secondary remark and you do not take it into consideration. Yet ODA warns you with this measure of the CST. The Bioethics Advisory Committee had also expressed reservations. The problems encountered today are linked to fundamental problems: structural loss of contact with medicine, non-investment in the front line, precariousness. As Marius Gilbert says: "It is illusory to want to settle in the short term." This health pass serves to catch something that does not catch up, the total lack of prevention services on the ground. There are many people today who have not had access to answers to their questions. Today they still face the problems they have experienced since the beginning of the crisis, such as loss of income or employment. Consideration should be given to the reasons why vaccination rates are low. And there's also mistrust of Big Pharma. We want to remove the vaccine from Big Pharma's hands. We want him to be under public control. You may sigh, Mrs. De Block, but one of the reasons for the population's mistrust is the lack of confidence in Big Pharma. And they're totally right. The only goal of these big multinationals is to make money. It's for profit! And the fact that the vaccine is in their hands causes the population to distrust. Let's take this vaccine again! Let's make it public. And then you will see, minister, that things will change. A health pass such as the CST does not answer questions from young people and people about vaccination. I will quote Marius Gilbert, who cannot be accused of not being in favour of vaccination and the fight against the pandemic. It explicitly states: "The generalization of the health pass entails a cost in terms of social division. Vaccination is something of solidarity and the first thing we do is divide society between those who can do certain things and those who can't. In Brussels, vaccination rates are fairly close to the percentage of people with a doctor. They are people who have lost contact with medicine, who do not often see their doctor and there are many reasons why: social, precarious or even cultural reasons. The CST is a quick fix because it means not giving the means. It's a quick and easy solution. One enters into the logic of carrot and stick while the underlying problem is that of accessibility: access to medicine, access to information and understanding. These are all obstacles that remain! We need to step up awareness-raising efforts and, above all, not let go." Minister, these measures, in addition to being dangerous to our freedoms, are ineffective. In the end, you are simply replicating the calamitous management of this pandemic that has led us to the present situation. As before, it is the government that will decide everything that will recycle the old measures that have not worked so far. But here, we're going to think that everything went well and that everything was well managed and we're going to use the same methods. That is exactly what the pandemic law does. The rise in figures is worrying. Indeed, vigorous action must be taken. Be responsible! To be responsible, Minister, is to dare to raise the patents on vaccines, dare to invest in the front line, in prevention, in tracing and testing. We must dare to provide support measures for quarantined people, invest in structural measures such as CO2 detectors and ventilations in schools, restaurants, dances, rest homes, etc. Let the government begin with this instead of activating the pandemic law, which has only repressive measures, not preventive measures! Already during the discussions on the creation of this pandemic law, the PTB was against. Already at that time, we have judged this law to be undemocratic. It is obvious to everyone that we will vote against this new cooperation agreement. We cannot remain silent in the face of such attacks against workers, civil society and democratic rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u31	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish I had been a little mouse and heard what happened at the Codeco. I confess that after the debate in committee, I still have not understood why the federal government contortions on the Covid Safe Ticket. Why? In essence, you have decided to activate the pandemic law. I imagine the royal decree will be taken in the hours or days to come. Remember, the Pandemic Law must be activated "when the situation requires coordination and management of the competent actors at national level." It seems obvious to us that this is the case. We therefore expected that, following the adoption of this royal decree declaring the pandemic emergency situation, the various measures would be taken at federal level, including the CST, but not at federal level. This is in the straight line and logic of the Pandemic law that you have imposed. It was also, Mr Minister, the logic of the cooperation agreement, not the document available today, but the cooperation agreement as it was voted on, in its current version. Indeed, this cooperation agreement still provides for the deactivation of regional measures in the event of an outbreak of emergency. Instead of this logic, this consistency, we have to approve here, in an emergency never before seen, an amendment to the cooperation agreement of July, relating to the Covid Safe Ticket, with an amendment in September, which was published at the beginning of October, just fifteen days or three weeks ago. It is therefore the third version in four months, with increasingly important superpositions. I'll go back. The Council of State was consulted according to a timing – Madam President, I am speaking to you – indecent. In fact, at the time of the debate in committee, we had an opinion that was not translated but not signed either. Never seen it! The ODA was royally and voluntarily bypassed by the parties belonging to this Vivaldi majority. His opinion, however, had to be sought by regulation. The various colleagues will have to speak loudly and regularly in the press about the protection of citizens' personal data and medical data... I still allow myself to tell them that such statements and decisions, when it is necessary to push the button, different to 180 degrees, are neither credible nor respectful of citizens. It is very far away, definitely, the truth speech! All of this, Minister, brings us to this kind of imbroglio of the Covid Safe Ticket (CST), a juridic-sanitary imbroglio, and always to a full question about the why of all these contortions. What happened in the Consultation Committee (Codeco)? Who, in the logic of an actuated Pandemia law, did not want logic and coherence to be applied? Who wanted to be continued in this superimposition of provisions at all levels of power? Why make it simple when you can make it complicated? Why not be consistent, when you have a Pandemic Law at your disposal, rather than adding layers? Why provide for federal leadership – which would be logical with a Pandemic Law – rather than adding layers, so that each minister of health, each level of power, makes his or her popote in his or her corner? I often hear the parties of the majority teach Europe about the health crisis. "Europe must be much more coordinated!", "Europe must be much more coherent!", "We need Europe to stop squandering, every country in its corner." And what are we doing here in Belgium? Even with a Pandemic law that offers you all the possibilities and that obliges you in some way to have a federal pilotage, and not, rebelote, we fall back into diaper lasagna... This is the umpteenth episode of a bad saga in the health management of this crisis and in the broken management of health care. In the lasagna of health care skills, you add a lasagna "Covid Safe Ticket", despite this Pandemic law that allowed you – which also obliged you, I think we can say that way – to act anything else. Of course, we are faced with an epidemiological situation, which we do not always know very well, except by listening to the press, which each level of power thinks. Everyone has their own interpretation – that's already a bad sign – everyone thinks they're doing everything right, and that's even worse. Indeed, the virus does not care about linguistic boundaries. Moreover, the epidemiological figures are now all but homogeneous within each Region, both in terms of the incidence and the number of hospitalizations. No one can say today what will happen in the coming weeks, since this will depend, Mr.Minister, in particular on the acceleration of third doses to fragile people, to the elderly – we see the differential in numbers – and to our caregivers, who were vaccinated a long time ago. In this regard, the slowness of decisions on the third dose for caregivers is, in my view, totally unacceptable and indecent. This will, of course, depend on the evolution of the initial vaccination since, among the most vulnerable people, i.e. those over the age of 45, there are today in Belgium only around 500 000 people over the age of 45 who are still not vaccinated: 208 000 in Wallonia, 161 000 in Flanders, 93 000 in Brussels and 6 800 in the Eastern Townships. This shows us that we keep weak links and that it is particularly vital that we can continue to convince ourselves to be vaccinated, essentially in an individual approach, all fragile people because over 45 years clearly means more at risk with this delta virus. I've always said, and it's been a long time, although many were looking at me first with astonishment or discontent, that the vaccine was a powerful weapon but not an absolute weapon. The winning combination, especially in the face of the delta, and perhaps tomorrow in the face of this subvariant delta that is developing in the United Kingdom quite quickly, is the addition of the vaccine to all the measures that make it possible to curb contamination and thus the virus. The multiplication of these measures, somewhat in the image of the embalm, with its holes, will help to minimise the risks: vaccine, barrier measures, mask, ventilation far too insufficient, minister and the whole strand to continue to test, trace, isolate. With regard to ventilation, things are still going on again. Checked ventilation is required, measured with CO2 sensors and possibly supplemented with additional devices to increase ventilation. All these issues are as crucial as each other, not to mention the CST. Perhaps you will retort that you will not take a royal decree in the context of the pandemic with the various measures but that you withdraw the CST, because the reality is different from one Region to another. Yes, the situation is different, but sometimes it is also different within the same Region, between provinces, sometimes even within the same province. There may also be significant differences between rural and urban environments. Nothing prevented you, therefore, by means of a CSE measure, taken in the framework of a royal decree which translates the Pandemia Act, from providing for different elements and thus taking into account different realities, whether by region, by province and to be able, during the coming autumn and winter seasons, to use all the measures made necessary by the epidemiological level or, at other times, to alleviate the strict rules because of a better situation. There is no point in imposing binding rules when they are not necessary. This would have allowed for dynamic and efficient management for the coming months, to pass the course of autumn and winter. Instead, you have improvised a regime that combines minimum federal measures – is it not to displease Flanders? – but insufficient for Wallonia and Brussels. They must be complemented by regional measures. For the little story, there was a Brussels order that will fall anyway because of the royal decree Pandemia and so we're going to have to redo a new Brussels order anyway. The gauges are different. One wonders who will be there, how and if it is wise: events (200 people inside, 400 outside), the others, it will be 50 and then 100. Let's move on! Not to mention the many difficulties in determining which regional or federal measures apply, which will depend on whether these regional standards are in conflict with federal standards. A clever man who can really find himself there! I also wish the authorities responsible for implementing these measures, the citizens who do not remain in their communes, who are mobile, who go from one place to another, who will have to comply with these measures, and the judges who will have to decide the challenges that will not fail to arise, in particular, on the question of which sanctions will have to be applied since there will be federal and regional sanctions. A few months ago, you ripped the Pandemic Law out of Parliament. But you do not dare to exercise the skills you have obtained through it. You add confusion to the confusion, and – I fear – make it even more difficult for citizens to agree to the measures taken. We had challenged the Pandemic Law because it confiscated too much power in Parliament. But it was at least logical to have federal leadership in crisis management. Today, the federal government has an instrument to be more effective in crisis management and health management. Yet he does not dare to use it, no doubt, because every level of power, every minister of health wants to be able to continue to make his poppy. He does not dare, no doubt, either, to use it for fear of frustrateing the Flemish government led by the N-VA. Last night, I heard the president of this party speak in this direction. We can only deplore this situation, Minister. When are we going to get out of the small political games between levels of power, of the incessant ping-pong games between health ministers when we are facing a crisis of great magnitude? As has already been seen in the last 18 months, any delay may result in further harsher restrictions of freedoms, even greater efforts by caregivers, and more patients and deaths. You would have taken the CST through a royal decree under the activated pandemic law, thus clarifying correctly the measures, the coherence, the coordination and the federal pilotage, we could have followed you. But, unlike the previous cooperation agreements that we voted for, we will not support your government in this text. We will not support this text. It is true that the situation is worrying. We need action at the national level. That's indispensable. There is a need to continue to advance and accelerate immunization and to combine this with all measures that reduce contamination and stop the virus. But we are concerned about your approach in this government. We are concerned about respect for democratic rules. Very clearly! We are concerned about the legal certainty of this lasagna, this legal-sanitary imbroglio that you have done with the CST. We are concerned about the population's acceptance and, over and over again, about your lack of anticipation and management of the health crisis and this pandemic. For all these reasons, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, we will not support this text. Perhaps it will be necessary, Minister, to come back a sixth time, when a whole other way was possible, more effective and commensurate with the seriousness of the situation required to manage a crisis and a health epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u32	Madam President, many technical details have already been discussed this afternoon, so I will not go into that again in my speech. It will be a brief speech, but I want to keep it. I would like to refer to the scientific data relating to the risk assessment of the RAG, the GEMS and the Coronac Commission. I find it a little worrying that Mr Merckx had to ask for it in committee before we got it. I find it inconceivable that at the beginning of the discussion we do not even know exactly how risky the situation is, that we do not know exactly what the opinion is and that we must assume that everything is as it is said. I think that's the world upside down. I believe that it is essential to be very transparent, in any case in policy and administration in general, and certainly when it comes to a crisis situation. The citizen, who has to go through everything, must certainly be treated as an equal partner in situations like this. The public should therefore have access to this report. That is a fundamental right, by the way. Citizens should have access, for example, to the existing figures on the evolution of the pandemic. After all, those are his figures. Especially in a crisis, it is important to provide guidance, security and a sense of trust among citizens. I have had to ask you a number of times about matters which were missing or where far too little attention has been paid. For example, for a very long time there has been hesitation to show the figures of sewer water screening. Now there are those numbers, I know. I also know that the RAG has taken this into account in its opinions. But still, how accessible are those figures for the average citizen? How easy are they to consult? The entire website of Sciensano with the corona figures is not very accessible to laymen. One has to be half a scientist in order to find his way between the numbers and graphs. As an example, I would like to mention the website of RIVM in the Netherlands. It is really very clear and clear. At a glance one can see where things stand. That creates trust. Recently, the vaccination status of the hospitalised covid patients was considered. For weeks there was no or only a limited overview of this. The argument was that many hospitals no longer participated in clinical surveillance. But all of a sudden, when it was in the newspaper and there were parliamentary questions, it was settled. I believe that this proves that it can be done, if the will is there and if the importance of it is recognised. Such data is important not only for policy-makers or MEPs, but also for citizens. It's forgotten over and over again. Also we still have guessing to the number of days lying because of covid. We have no idea the number of transfers between hospitals. There is a lot of uncertainty about the models used to make projections. The reports of the RAG and the GEMS and the communications of the coronac Commissariat are all available somewhere, but they are fragmented across the Internet. It takes a lot of effort to get it all together. This course of action, whereby things are always imposed from above without involving people, without being actively transparent, means that many people no longer follow it and no longer believe it. They may think that third shot won't help much either. After all, too little time has been given to show how the vaccine works and to present the figures clearly, to share all the available information immediately and explain how, in some cases, fully vaccinated people can still end up in hospital. It is unfortunate that there is no time for that. It also means that MEPs must constantly look for figures and then discover that there is no such thing. We never have an accurate picture of what the situation really is. You probably think I'm pushing and going off-topic right now, but I don't think so. Information sharing and transparency are the basis for gaining citizens' confidence. You must stand beside the people instead of above them. You must also have the decency to first state very clearly to everyone, both citizens and Members of Parliament, why a new intervention is needed. From now on, take the people seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u33	Madam President, I would like to refer to many of the issues raised in the debate, including the fact that the objective of adjusting the cooperation agreement is to ensure that the federated entities - the Flemish Government, the Brussels Government, the Walloon Government - are able to take legislative initiatives, for example with regard to the application of the CST in the catering industry, in the fitness halls, in the cultural sector. Despite the activation of the pandemic law with which we remain in a federal phase, we wish the regions to be able to pursue their own policies. It is there that the precise legislative frameworks will have to be established. The question of how to deal precisely with catering, sports infrastructure and dance schools is a question that needs to be answered by the parliaments of the regions, precisely because we want to keep that competence there. I would like to stress once again that the adaptation of the cooperation agreement does not change the current policy. On the contrary, this policy is intended to continue. That is the most important reason for the urgency. That is also why we have not asked for the advice of the GBA. That is why the Council of State itself says that there is no need to re-examine proportionality with fundamental rights, because that has already been examined. It is therefore a matter of competence in which we want to clarify that the regions have the autonomy they have today to conduct their own policies. The same goes for the mayors and the governors. I think, Mr President, that perhaps at the moment, rather than repeating the debate on a number of technical issues, we should reflect on the fact that we are still facing a long, difficult period. I'm sure it is. A period in which we should not panic at all, because we know what to do. We know that an instrument like CST is useful, but of course it doesn't bliss itself. We know that no instrument in itself will guarantee absolute security, that we will have to use different instruments at the same time and that this will take time. In this sense, I would like to express my full agreement with part of Mrs Fonck's message, even if she will not support this project. She explained her arguments well. But there is one thing we share, Mrs Fonck: that a political ping pong does not help in any way. It's not you who play a political ping pong. But I believe that all the authorities in this country, all the governments, must work together, maintain the solidarity we have had for a whole period – solidarity between policies, solidarity between levels of power – in order to be able to tell people that they must be in solidarity. And here, Mrs Fonck, I can only reaffirm what you said, even if we disagree. The main thing is that after the debate, there is solidarity. That will be necessary. It will be a long-term effort. That's what we know now. That is what we believe can contribute to the amended cooperation agreement that is before your vote. That, Madam President, as a conclusion, does not repeat all the arguments that were put forward during the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u34	Mr Minister, you have raised some points again. I hear you say: 'Yes, but it is important that the regions can maintain their autonomy'. You will agree with me that this is still a famous paradox, since at the same time you are operating the Pandemic Law – which we could have operated earlier. Its objective is precisely, in a situation such as that we are experiencing, to have more coherence, to have more federal control, and above all to avoid ending up with the layers of lasagna added to the layers of lasagna that I referred to. I have that vision. I confess that I do not understand this current paradox of the federal government. I doubtless lack the elements on the discussions between the levels of power of the Codeco, on the sensitivities, sensitivities and positions that may be much more political for each other. Maybe with these elements, the puzzle could be even understandable. But for me, this great paradox remains full and complete. I do not think it is one of greater efficiency in health management. But we will not go back to the debate here. We will certainly still have the opportunity in the future to discuss it again on the basis of the positions of governments on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u35	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u36	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2288/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2288/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 and 2 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 and 2 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u37	Mr Minister, I am speaking today about the possible effects on a number of public hospitals of the privatisation decree that may be approved in Flanders. The story then began in Antwerp a few months ago the board of the autonomous health care company that manages the former OCMW residential care centers made a proposal to private companies to buy into the Zorgbedrijf. The city government wants to introduce a business model that can make a profit on older people. When the Antwerp city council proposed this, we, of course, with the PVDA and many people involved from the field, took action against this possible sale. Together with the trade unions, among other things, we have filed a complaint with the provincial governor, and we have been right. The governor blew back the city administration of Antwerp because it wanted to carry out that privatisation without a legal basis. That was a first victory for us and the people on the ground. But the Antwerp city council, made up of Flemish nationalists, liberals but peculiarly also Vooruit, wanted to continue with these privatisation plans at any price. That is why the Flemish Government has come to the fore in order to have a privatisation decree approved. This would allow the privatisation of the Antwerp Zorgbedrijf, but also, of course, to open the door to privatisation of all residential care centres throughout Flanders. The Flemish government also had an ear for the wishes of certain investors, because that is what it is all about today: there is a real investment today in the "grey economy" or the silver economy in which some people want to make a profit on the hood of "the bomba," of the elderly who stay in the residential care centres. The Flemish Decree, which has not yet been adopted, allows public health services to set up companies. They may then resell parts of them, such as staff, buildings or support services. The government would still retain 49 percent of the shares, but it really opens the door to privatisation. In the spring, the Flemish government wanted to push through the decree quickly. She herself put it on the table as an urgent corona measure. From the sector itself now it wasn't just about Antwerp anymore, but about the whole of Flanders, everyone is opposed to these privatisation plans. The Flemish Council for Welfare, Health and Family, in which both employees and employers are present, was very clear and wrote a letter, together with many other people on the ground, to call on the Flemish MPs not to approve that decree. I just wanted to quote from that open letter, signed by Paul Callewaert of the Socialist Mutuality, which you certainly know, but also Domus Medica, Johan Van Eeghem of the ABVV, the Flemish Patient Platform, movement.net, Zorgnet Icuro, so a very large number of people from the field. They say about the possible privatisation decree of the retirement homes: "Through the interwoven of public institutions with private capital, two opposing interests clash. Companies are accountable to shareholders. In order to survive, they are obliged to remain competitive and not just to make profits but to make more and more profits. And that's where the shoe pinches." They clearly say that this decree gives private investors much more power over care in Flanders. They therefore call on the representatives of the people not to approve that decree, in the interests of everyone. I would like to go into more detail about this possible privatisation. You may recall that a few years ago, there was a very disgusting Pano reportage on commercial residential centres. They were talking about 3 euros per meal, very high daily prices, savings on pampers, savings on staff. When we look at the figures, we really see a difference between commercial and public residential care centres. In Flanders, an average of 12 nurses per 100 residents work in the commercial sector, while in the public sector there are 15 per 100 residents. In the care professionals, the difference is even greater. There it is 18 per 100 residents in commercial centres and 24.5 per 100 residents in public centres. The forthcoming privatisation could mean lower wages for future staff. It was calculated that the staff of the cleaning service, kitchen or ironing service of the Zorgbedrijf Antwerpen would have 300 to 400 euro less wages in the long term. Their end-of-year allowance would be at least EUR 700 lower. Privatisation of care depends on the wages of the staff. During the corona crisis, we saw what the privatisation of retirement homes leads to. Government crisis managers had to be appointed to provide assistance, mainly to the commercial operators where it went completely wrong. The testimonies of the staff there are to get chills. The question is how is it possible to go even further and save on staff, accessibility, quality and affordability after the biggest health crisis we have ever had? Is that the Flanders that the N-VA wants? Is that the Flanders of the liberals? Is that the Flanders of Vooruit? The position of Vooruit is not clear in this file. In the city administration of Antwerp they want the decree approved, but in the Flemish Parliament Vooruit is not in favour of this. The care staff has had an incredibly hard year. They did a lot of work, worked nights, didn't count their hours. They had to fight a pandemic, while the water was already on their lips. This included stress, anxiety and concern for the aid workers, the care staff and the doctors. Is this the way in which the Flemish Government wishes to thank the staff after the corona crisis, namely by privatising and saving on hoods of staff and residents? One thing is clear: the only people who benefit from the privatisation of care are large commercial players. They see care for the elderly as a silver economy. Aedifica, for example, is manager of 73 residential centres in Belgium and could pay 122 million euros in dividends in the corona year. Cofinimmo presented a profit of 177 million euros to the shareholders. Some Members of the Flemish Parliament want us to believe that it is not a question of real privatisation, but VOKA is very clear and does not go so far as to say: "The privatisation decree makes public companies in the care of private companies.' I am standing before you because the forthcoming amendment to the local government decree in the Flemish Parliament also applies to certain autonomous care institutions and thus to certain hospitals. It concerns six hospitals in Flanders, the AZ Geel, the AZ Bruges Oostende, the AZ Jan Palfin in Ghent, the hospital of East Limburg, the AZ Aalst-Wetteren-Geraardsbergen and the AZ Vesalius in Bilzen and Tongeren. There are hardly any commercial hospitals in Belgium today, and that is a good thing. What do you think of the privatisation decree? Do you think it would be desirable if it could also be applied in the hospital sector? Do you believe, like the staff and the sector, that the privatisation of care could have a detrimental effect on the quality of service? Has the Flemish Government contacted you or anyone else from the federal government in the light of the discussion in the Flemish Government about the drafting of the privatisation decree? Have you had any contacts on the implications for the hospitals? Do you think that the proposal for a decree on the table is in line with federal hospital law, which determines who runs a hospital? Do you know if there are concrete plans for the six listed public hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u38	Mrs Merckx, I have taken note of the proposal for a Decree amending Part 3, Title 4, Chapters 1 and 2 of the Decree of 22 December 2017 on local government. I hope you will understand that, from my position as a member of the federal government, I will not at the moment express my views on the substance of that decree, because the discussion is ongoing at other levels of competence, but let it be very clear that I stand for solidarity-funded care, which is therefore also accessible, high-quality and effective. We sometimes talk about quadruple aim and even quintuple aim, and that is what I am talking about, in particular how we can achieve more health, better care experience, less stressful working environment and also more social equality in health care. That is what we federally try to do within our powers. Allow me to make a few comments. More cooperation between hospitals is desirable, including in the framework of the locoregional clinical hospital networks. In this context, the Länder have also adapted their legislation to facilitate cooperation models between public hospitals and non-profit-making hospitals. A major obstacle to better cooperation at local level appeared to be the different status of hospitals, which prevented public hospitals from entering private non-profit organisations. In Flanders, an amendment to the local government decree allowed autonomous care institutions only to join non-profit-making associations or legal entities. Federal hospital legislation does not impose any form of legal person, as no decision has been taken to date with the application of Article 15 (3) which you quote. Article 63 limits the financing of investments, including heavy medical equipment, to public institutions, non-profit associations or universities. Article 15 states that hospitals must be operated by a legal person whose statutory purpose is solely the operation of one or more hospitals, health facilities or medical and social establishments. Despite the theoretical possibility that a hospital would be run for profit, all hospitals in our country have a non-profit operation. I think that makes sense and that's good. I don't see it any other way either. The Belgian hospital sector is rightly highly regulated, because our hospitals carry out a mission of general interest at the service of our society. Moreover, as regards the ongoing discussion, I know that an amendment was tabled in the Flemish Parliament on 7 October, precisely to exclude the autonomous care institutions from the decree. This amendment, which is of course very important to us, is now before the Council of State for its opinion. When we get that advice, we will of course look at it very closely, because that can indeed point to matters of competence and other issues. That's what I'm waiting for. I would also like to tell you that I do have regular consultations with my good Flemish colleague, Minister Wouter Beke, and that we have already scheduled formal consultations on this particular dossier in our agenda in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u39	Mr. Secretary, you didn't really answer. You do not really have an opinion, and you do not really want to express your opinion on what you think about the fact that this decree may have an impact on health and hospitals, and in particular on federal hospitals. I regret this, but yes, it is not clear in this debate. I already told you. On the one hand, Vooruit argues in favour of privatisation in the Antwerp city council, and on the other, on 7 October Vooruit submitted an amendment calling for the federal hospitals to be excluded from the decree. One thing is clear to us, Minister. I'm sorry I didn't hear about that. For us, a red line has been crossed. For us, it is clear that the privatisation of health care, whether it is about retirement homes or hospitals, is not done. We in the PVDA will stand up to that. It is also clear, and this is also important for our Walloon colleagues, that the Flemings, and especially the Flemish nationalists, say: what we do ourselves, we do better. They want to split the health care completely. Look at what they want to do in Flanders. They want to make sure that people have even less pay. They want to ensure that people have even worse working conditions in the rest homes. By allowing privatisation. That is a real blow to people's faces. There are rest houses where only 3 euros are spent on food. People have to be in their beds at 5:00. Their Pampers are being reused. Is that the Flanders you want to go for? Is that what you want to do with health care? That's what's on the move in Flanders! I think people really need to know that. In any case, one thing is clear: for us, care must remain public. This is also a lesson from the corona crisis, both at federal, Flemish, Walloon and Brussels level. We must cherish our public health care, and what is still public. We need to invest in this because health does not go hand in hand with profit, because our older people deserve better, because our grandmothers and grandpas deserve better and because patients deserve better. The people in the field who are today fighting against the privatisation decree in Flanders and Antwerp can continue to count on the support of the PVDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u40	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: " The House, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Considering the proposal for a decree amending Part 3, Title 4, Chapters 1 and 2 of the Decree of 22 December 2017 on local government, known as the "Privatization Decree"; Whereas the above-mentioned proposal for a decree applies not only to social welfare associations but also to autonomous care institutions, i.e. public hospitals; - Whereas, in view of the above, the Decree is potentially contrary to federal legislation on hospitals, in particular the Law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities; Whereas the privatization and marketing of care has a negative impact on staff, occupants, quality, reasonable price and accessibility; Whereas there are currently almost no commercial hospitals in Belgium; - Whereas the Coronavirus crisis has demonstrated the need for a strong public health care sector, with a focus on quality, affordable and accessible care involving sufficient staff; Asks the government: - to make every effort to ensure that the proposal for a decree amending Part 3, Title 4, Chapters 1 and 2 of the Decree of 22 December 2017 on local administration, referred to as the "privatisation decree", is not applied to autonomous care institutions, i.e. to public hospitals, in particular the AZZ Aalst – Wetteren – Geraardsbergen, the AZ Vesalius – Bilzen & Tongeren, the AZ Brugge-Oostende (AZ Sint-Jan en AZ Serruys), theAZ Ziekenhuis Geel, the AZ ZOL (Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg), AZ Jan Palfijn (Gand)." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Room, heard the interplay of Mrs Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the proposal of the Decree amending Part Three, Title 4, Chapter 1 and 2 of the Decree of 22 December 2017 on Local Government, the Privatisation Decree; - whereas the above-mentioned proposal for a decree applies not only to welfare associations but also to the autonomous care institutions, which are public hospitals; - whereas, for the reasons set out above, the Decree does not comply with federal hospital legislation, in particular the Law on Hospitals and other care establishments of 10 July 2008, - whereas privatisation and commercialisation of care has a negative impact on staff, residents, quality, affordability and accessibility; - whereas there are hardly any commercial hospitals in Belgium today; - whereas the corona crisis has shown that we need a strong public care sector, where the emphasis is on quality, affordable and accessible care with sufficient staff; asks the government: - to make every effort to ensure that the proposal of the Decree amending Part 3, Title 4, Chapter 1 and 2, of the Decree of 22 December 2017 on local government, the Privatisation Decree, is not applied to the autonomous care institutions, public hospitals, in particular ASZ Aalst, Wetteren, Geraardsbergen, AZ Vesalius, Bilzen & Tongeren, AZ Bruges Oostende (AZ Sint-Jan and AZ Serruys), AZ Ziekenhuis Geel, AZ ZOL (Hospit of Oost-Limburg), AZ Jan Palfin (Gent)." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u41	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of our simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u42	By letter of 11 October 2021, Ms Nathalie Diesbeck communicated her resignation as an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Discrimination and Racism (Unia). By letter dated 11 October 2021, Ms Nathalie Diesbeck announced her resignation as an effective member of the Executive Board of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Discrimination and Racism (Unia). In accordance with Article 8(6)(2) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Authority, the Regions and the Communities to establish an Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the alternate member who replaces the effective member shall be appointed as an effective member and a new alternate member shall be appointed for the duration of the term of office. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 (6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Government, the Regions and the Communities for the establishment of the International Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Racism and Discrimination, the alternate member replacing the effective member shall be appointed as an effective member and a new alternate member shall be appointed for the duration of the current term of office. At the plenary meeting on 14 January 2021, Ms Ellen Desmet was appointed alternate member of Ms Diesbeck. She will therefore fulfil Ms. Diesbeck's mandate. Ms Ellen Desmet was appointed alternate member of Ms Diesbeck at the plenary session of 14 January 2021. It will therefore complete Mrs Diesbeck's mandate. The Chamber must also appoint a new alternate member for Ms. Desmet. The Chamber should also appoint a new alternate member for Ms Desmet. Since gender and language parity must be respected, the Chamber must appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member. Since gender and language parity must be respected, the Chamber should appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the appointment of a new Dutch-speaking female alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the appointment of a new Dutch-speaking female alternate member. No observation? (No) That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u43	By letter of 29 September 2021 Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, informed the Court of Auditors that Mr Jozef Van Ingelgem, the Chief Registrar of the Court of Auditors, had requested to assert his rights to the early retirement pension from 1 April 2022. By letter dated 29 September 2021, Mr Philippe Roland, first Chairman of the Court of Auditors, stated that Mr Jozef Van Ingelgem, head of the Court of Auditors, asked for an early retirement pension from 1 April 2022. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new Dutch-speaking Registrar of the Court of Auditors. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Dutch-speaking Registrar of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 29 October 1846 establishing the Court of Auditors, the clerks are appointed by the Chamber for a period of six years. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the establishment of the Court of Auditors, the Registrars shall be appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that you follow the same procedure as for the appointment of an adviser and make a call for candidates in the Belgian Moniteur. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose to follow the same procedure as for the appointment of a councillor and to call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u44	By letter of 29 September 2021 Mr Roland informed that Mr. Van Ingelgem, Chief Registrar of the Court of Auditors, asked for the honour of his office. By letter dated 29 September 2021, Mr Roland stated that Mr Van Ingelgem, head of the Court of Auditors, asked for the title of honor of his office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that you consent that Mr. Jozef Van Ingelgem may bear the honorary title of his office from his pension (1 April 2022). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, I propose that you agree that Mr Jozef Van Ingelgem should have the title of honor from his retirement (1 April 2022). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u45	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the draft law on various provisions relating to value added tax, No. 2279/1. The Government asked for an urgent declaration of urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to value added tax, No. 2279/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u46	Colleagues, this bill contains various provisions that will come into force on January 1, 2022. In order to inform taxpayers in time of these new provisions, this bill must be published in the Belgian Monitor as soon as possible. This is indeed an amendment to the Value Added Tax Code in relation to different schemes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u47	Madam President, we do not approve of this request for urgency. I just heard the Minister say that the entry into force will take place on 1 January 2022. We assume that it is perfectly possible to introduce this legislation on 1 January 2022 if we follow the normal course of action. I would also like to point out that this is a matter of VAT. Such matters can be prepared longer in advance. If the urgency was not apparent at the time, then we will not support it now either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u48	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill extending the period during which a temporary premium is granted to recipients of certain social assistance allowances, as part of measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus VOCID−19, No. 2286/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the extension of the period during which the persons entitled to certain social assistance benefits are granted a temporary premium in the context of measures to combat the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, No. 2286/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this €50 premium for certain beneficiaries of social benefits has been extended three times. It was a 50-euro bonus. As we are in the landing phase in relation to the covid crisis, the premium has been reduced by half; it is 25 euros. We call for urgency so that this measure granting a premium of 25 euros to the social beneficiaries can enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u50	The Government had also requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law approving the legislative cooperation agreement of 26 October 2021 amending the cooperation agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to the EU Digital VOCID certificate and the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employed persons and self-employed persons living or residing abroad carrying out activities in Belgium, No 2288/1. The Government had also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving the legislative cooperation agreement of 26 October 2021 amending the cooperation agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Committee, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission on the processing of data relating to the EU-COVID digital certificate, the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employees or self-employed persons residing or residing abroad who carry out activities in Belgium, No. 2288/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u51	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u52	Madam President, we ask for the urgency of the legislative proposal to ratify the Royal Decree of 28 October 2021 announcing the epidemic emergency in relation to the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic. I understand that the royal decree would be signed by the King today and published in the Belgian Official Journal tomorrow. We reached an agreement with the members of the majority and opposition in the Conference of Presidents to deal with the proposal at committee meetings of 8 and 9 November 2021 so that it can be put to the vote in plenary on Wednesday 10 November 2021. The pandemic law requires ratification to take place within a period of 14 days. However, in order for this agreement to be made in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we must approve the urgency so that the report can be produced only after the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u53	Mr Verherstraeten, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the vote. I hope everything works because I have seen some signs of difficulty. Please check.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u55	Madam President, I have some problems that prevent me from following streaming. If Members are not aware that we are voting, you can imagine that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u56	It seems that this is in order again. The flow has to be updated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u57	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities on 19 October 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 19 October 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 171/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 171/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u58	Madam Chair, a few moments ago, we just discussed the epidemic crisis of Covid-19. The least we can say is that the government's attention is still and still largely insufficient in relation to the realities of caregivers, particularly nurses and caregivers, since today hospital beds must be closed for lack of nurses and caregivers, while the epidemic situation requires us to keep the maximum number of beds, not physical beds, but the care of patients in all beds with the best possible quality. Of course, there has been some progress at the end of the previous government with the White Blouse Fund and the social agreement, but I can tell you here how widespread the ras-le-bol of nurses and caregivers is. The fact that there is still no respect for promises, such as the whole issue of the appeal of the nursing profession to the whole career, whether it is the recognition of pension penitence promised repeatedly, whether it is on the correction of errors of discrimination of duties in the IFIC classification, whether it is on managerial standards and well-being at work or for some nurses who have still not received the famous covid-19 bonus or the consumer check. Several appeals have been brought. These cases must now be dealt with more quickly. It is therefore a question of getting you, colleagues, to be on the side of nurses and caregivers in a more general way, who are still living particularly difficult hours today. I hope you won't sweep it with a back of your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u59	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u60	Yes 75 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u61	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 20 October 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 20 October 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 182/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 182/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u62	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u63	Yes 79 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u64	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 20 October 2021. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 20 October 2021. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 187/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 187/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u65	Madam President, I would like to explain the intention of my speech to Minister Gilkinet. The flight tax is not clear to me at all. I understand that a CO2 tax is introduced so that people would take the train instead of the plane for destinations within 500 kilometres. In my opinion, such a measure should at least be discussed with the aviation sector, but that has not happened at all. I asked Mr De Vriendt about this at the time he was on the occasion of the debate. I don't think that was the easiest time in his career for him. Mr De Vriendt had no answers to the questions of how much it will cost and what the purpose of that tax is. Since I didn't get any answers, I questioned Minister Gilkinet about it at the committee meeting. He actually said again that nothing had yet been decided. How much that would cost, will be looked at, as well as the radius to apply. There is a 750 km radius around the airport of Zaventem, which is a new one. Since that CO2 tax is motivated by the argument that it is better to take the train, I have made some comparisons, from the question of how one can reach his destination within a radius of 500 kilometers. For example, the train ride to Zurich takes eight hours and the train ride to Hamburg six and a half hours, but it takes only one hour to reach Hamburg by plane. Personally, therefore, I am convinced that this CO2 tax is a flat tax increase of which we will see absolutely nothing in terms of behavioural change. That is what I have raised, and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this. In my motion I ask the government not to introduce that flight tax, and if it wants to introduce it, then in a sound and scientific way. I would ask the government to put forward proposals on this matter again in the Committee on Mobility and in the plenary, so that it can be discussed again. That is now before the vote on my motion. I did not receive any answers from Minister Gilkinet, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the flight tax for short distances up to 500 kilometres should be EUR 110 million spread over 2022 to 2024. This tax has been discussed three times in this House, once in the general discussion of the government statement, then in the thematic discussion with the Minister responsible, Mr Gilkinet, and then in the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions through an interplay with that same minister. Every time, we haven't gotten an answer. However, it was logical questions such as how to obtain these amounts, how to use them, who will be taken into account, how much the surcharge will be, how much CO2 can be saved and whether there has been consultation with the aviation sector. Nothing came up with an answer. It was shocking to see that a minister responsible for this had no answer, not even a response. The shopkeeper of the herb shop on the corner of the street could tell more sensible things about that than the minister. In a private organisation, the person concerned would not work there for long. There's just no steering effect. There are no sufficient alternatives in Europe. The airport of Zaventem is affected, the other airports, coincidentally in Wallonia, are not affected. There is also a legal problem with Article 15 of the Chicago Convention. For the Flemish interest, this is a pure bullying measure for the aviation sector, which has already been very badly hit, where many jobs are at stake, where many people live in uncertainty. Apparently they must experience a total lack of empathy in the Vivaldi government. She puts the knife on their throats again and lets them pay and pay, after they already have to pay so many big bills, taxes and energy bills. If they want to go on vacation, they're gonna get caught again. By means of this motion, the Vlaams Belang therefore asks the federal government to withdraw the plans for the introduction of a flight tax and, in other words, to take the promotion of the railway to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u67	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u68	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u69	This inquiry was developed in plenary today. This interplay was held in today's plenary session. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 193/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 193/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u70	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u71	Yes 105 Yes No. 33 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u72	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u73	Yes 122 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u74	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u75	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u77	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u78	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u79	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u80	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u81	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u82	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u83	Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u84	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u85	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u87	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law and its annex. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the House adopted the bill and its annex. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u88	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u89	Yes 82 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-28-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip137x.u90	We must approve the agenda for the sitting on Wednesday, November 10, 2021. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday, 10 November 2021. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, November 10, at 10:00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 10 November at 10 a.m.
