ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u2	Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u3	Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing today should be a highlight of parliamentary democracy, but it will not be for two reasons. Firstly, it is forbidden for more than half of our colleagues to be here, with the argument being the rule of social distancing. I do not know if you have just looked at the majority of my colleagues. They almost sat on each other's laps. I have the impression that these rules will only apply if the hearing is officially opened. Here hypocrisy is promoted to majority policy. The fact that more than half of Members of Parliament are unable to attend the highlight of the year alone deserves absolute democratic disapproval, in particular because this is done on the basis of a police regulation which does not apply to it. Secondly, Prime Minister, you should normally surprise us here with your speech. That will not be the case because you have already held a press conference where you have spoken longer than you will here with the State of the Union. That's unseen. Madam President, I hope that you will give the government a chance to do so. This too is not only unusual from a democratic point of view, but it is also a symbol of the condescension of this government, of the House of Democracy. For these reasons, Madam President, we are leaving the Half-Round. We're not playing in this game today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u5	Mr De Roover, you asked me a question. It would be good to listen to the answer as well. Your memory is extremely short, Mr De Roover. In 2016, in a government of which your party was a member, we concluded a similar agreement. We completed that on Saturday. We held a press conference on Saturday. We did the State of the Union on Sunday. Explain to me how that was not a problem five years ago, where it would be a scandal for democracy today. I think that is a very strange argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u6	Mr Prime Minister, we thought that was a scandal for democracy at the time, and we have not changed our minds in the meantime. Madam President, as a democrat, I can only oppose today's proceedings. Mr De Roover is right when he says that every Member of Parliament has the right to attend a declaration of government and its discussion. Everyone who participates in the Conference of Presidents remembers that I have been asking in advance to look for alternatives or, if they were not possible, another room, but they have not even made that effort. The fact that you do not provide for this, Madam President, or have not even sought an alternative, is not good for parliamentary democracy, and everyone knows that it is not very well regarded in this country. However, what shows much less respect for parliamentary democracy is indeed the press conference prior to the declaration of government. Madam President, you have had screens installed here to limit speaking time. I hope you will not use it to re-send press conferences. Is this the political renewal that the Vivaldi coalition is always talking about, namely the fact that people go to the press first and have no respect for our house here anymore? That is no less than contempt for parliamentary democracy. Everyone knew at the time the government was set up that it was not committed to democracy. The composition alone shows that it does not even take account of the election results. The fact that she does not even have the respect to come to the Members of Parliament first with a declaration of government does not mean that she has the last bit of respect for democracy. Madam President, I would ask you, on behalf of the Chamber, to turn a finger on the government for this. This cannot be repeated. If not, we should go to the press conferences ourselves in future. After all, everyone is allowed in there, shoulder to shoulder, and then at least we have the information first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u7	Madam President, as I have already said, I find it very strange that we should disregard democracy or Parliament by giving a press conference. Parliament is informed of the details to which it is entitled. For example, no one outside the government has received the budgetary table, no journalist. The table was not presented at the press conference either. Madam President, you received the budget table a few minutes ago and I would ask you to share it with all the Members of Parliament. This is a sign of transparency, of transparency, of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u8	Madam President, first of all, what is incomprehensible to me is that in 2020 you found a practical solution so that everyone could be present on an important day, when today, unlike 2020, you did not use that solution for an equally important debate, a debate that transcends all committees, so that all Members of Parliament could be present. It is problematic that today the State of the Union is still organised in such a minimalist attitude. Secondly, that there is not much more power in Parliament, we already knew that. That the whole political policy in Belgium is decided by the government and by the Cabinets, the people have been convinced of that for a long time. But it is a pity that we have to repeat again today that the political debate here in the hemisphere is secondary. This is, in my view, a serious signal. Mr Prime Minister, I ask only one thing: to be able to have all the data with, of course, the budget tables so that the debate which will begin tomorrow morning can be frank and in depth. Indeed, through these tables, we will be able to see what is happening to your fight against tax fraud, and whether the investments planned for the railway are actually higher than those made a few years ago. All the information that the people wish to have after this morning's communication is included in the tables in question. Madam President, the Prime Minister has just announced that he has forwarded these tables to you. May I ask you to communicate them as quickly as possible to all the group leaders so that we can demonstrate, tomorrow, in a good mood, but in combativeness, that the policy of Vivaldi is far from being social and new, as it announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u9	Mr Hedebouw, I have just noticed that the budget tables have actually been sent to me. They will therefore be forwarded to all members of this Parliament. As a reminder, the health rules are very clear. We must respect a 1.5 metre distance and wear the mask. It is a matter of sanitary protection because covid is still present. The capacity of our plenary room does not allow us to be here with 150. That is why I have organised parliamentary work in such a way that two committees are available to broadcast the Prime Minister's statement so that each Member could follow this important moment of our democracy in Parliament. For parliamentarians who wish to follow the plenary session, rooms are available at the Forum with retransmission and translation, so that all members who wish to do so can follow the Prime Minister's important statement here in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. I declare open the session 2021-2022. I declare open the session 2021-2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u11	The next item is the appointment of the final Bureau (rules 52 Const.). The next item is the appointment of the Permanent Bureau (Rules 50 and 56). 52 Gw.).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u12	The Bureau shall be composed of: - the President, - three Vice-Presidents, - and members of the Bureau. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents, - and the Bureau members. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The Office shall be supplemented by: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 1 member of the Office referred to. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau. The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary for each political group with at least 12 members to have at least one member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u13	The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. Since there was only one candidate presented at the October 7, 2021 plenary session, there was no vote. As only one candidate was proposed at the plenary session of 7 October 2021, no vote shall be taken. As a result, Ms. Eliane Tillieux was elected Speaker of the House. As a result, Ms Eliane Tillieux was elected President of the Chamber. (Applause) (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u14	The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. In accordance with Rules 3, 1, and 158, No. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, on the understanding that the Presidency is taken into account for the assignment of these functions, we shall appoint three Vice-Presidents and as many appointments as are necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau. In accordance with Articles 3, 1 and 158 No. 1 of the Rules of Procedure include the Presidency in the allocation of these posts and we appoint three Vice-Presidents and as many members as necessary so that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau. Therefore, we proceed to the appointment in the following order: 1 N-VA, 1 Ecolo-Groen, 1 Vlaams Belang, 1 MR, 1 N-VA, 1 CD&V, 1 PVDA-PTB, 1 Open VLD. Consequently, we name in the following order: 1 N-VA, 1 Ecolo-Green, 1 Flemish Interest, 1 MR, 1 N-VA, 1 CD&V, 1 PVDA-PTB, 1 Open VLD. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u15	We wish to nominate Mrs Séverine de Laveleye as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u16	We wish to nominate Mr Tom Van Grieken as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u17	The N-VA sent an e-mail to introduce Mrs Valerie Van Peel as vice-president. I declare Valerie Van Peel and Séverine de Laveleye and Tom Van Grieken as Vice-Presidents of the House. I declare Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mrs Séverine de Laveleye and Mr Tom Van Grieken elected Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u18	We propose Ms Kattrin Jadin as a member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u19	The N-VA proposes Mr Sander Loones as Bureau member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u20	We would like to introduce Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u21	The PTB group proposes Comrade Marco Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u22	Our group proposes Mr Patrick Dewael as a member of the Bureau. I declare Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Mr Sander Loones, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr MM. Marco Van Hees and Patrick Dewael as members of the House Bureau. I declare Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Mr Sander Loones, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Marco Van Hees and Patrick Dewael elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Chairman of the Ecolo-Groen Group; Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; Barbara Pas, president of the Vlaams Belang Group; Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Raoul Hedebouw, President of the PVDA-PTB Group; Ms Maggie De Block, President of the Open Vld Group; Ms Melissa Depraetere, President of the Vooruit Group; Catherine Fonck, president of the cdH group; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members. The Office shall be supplemented by: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Chairman of the Ecolo-Green Group; Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; Ms Barbara Pas, President of the Flemish Interest Group. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Raoul Hedebouw, Chairman of the PVDA-PTB Group; Ms Maggie De Block, President of the Open Vld Group; Ms Melissa Depraetere, Chairman of the Forward Group; Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - one member per political group with fewer than 12 members. I give the floor to the presidents of the Vooruit and cdH groups for the appointment of an associate member. I give the floor to the Chairmen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the appointment of an additional member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u23	We propose Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u24	We propose Mrs Vanessa Matz. I declare Mr Joris Vandenbroucke and Mrs Vanessa Matz as associate members of the Bureau. I declare Mr Joris Vandenbroucke and Mrs Vanessa Matz elected members of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u25	The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the parliaments of the Community and the region. The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u26	In accordance with rule 19 of the House's Rules of Procedure, committees should meet to appoint their Bureaux. Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, the committees should meet to appoint their offices. If the House agrees, we could simplify the procedure and treat the current members of the Commission Bureaux as re-elected. If the Chamber agrees, we could simplify the procedure and consider the current members of the committees to be re-elected. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u27	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. The Prime Minister has the floor. I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying something about democracy. In my view, one of the core values of democracy is respect. I have great respect for the fact that parties such as PTB, Flemish Interest, cdH and Défi have remained in this room. You know, running away, turning back to each other, that's the low point of democracy. And unfortunately, it's what we've seen here. [[applause]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, exactly a year ago, our country was at the beginning of the second wave. What followed was an unreal year. The lockdowns were a real ordeal. Thanks to the vaccinations, the toughest thing seems to be done, yet this corona time will remain an ugly scar forever. In the first weeks of October last year I visited the hospitals of Saint-Luc in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe and the University Hospital of Antwerp together with the Minister of Health. The conversations we had with the doctors and nurses sank all year round. But despite all the difficulty of the situation, everywhere, I was able to witness a tremendous determination. There is no shadow of doubt, no hesitation, there is always the same commitment and attention despite the exhaustion inherited from the first wave. It is this commitment of caregivers across our country that has made the difference over the past year. Without them, where would we be today? Where would we be today without the people in the care? I am therefore pleased to welcome caregivers from Saint-Luc and UZA here today, in the stands of this Parliament. On behalf of the government, and I hope on behalf of everyone in this assembly, I would like to thank them, and with them, all the caregivers in our country. You formed one unbreakable chain against the virus. Without you, we couldn't have made it through this year. Thank you. [[applause]] You didn't let us go, and we're not letting you go. That is why we will invest an additional €1.2 billion in health care next year. Ways, also, for higher wages, better working conditions and more living forces at the bedside of patients. And to commend the exemplary commitment of health professionals, there is also the unique incentive bonus. The corona period was also mentally heavy, especially for young people. Already before corona, the mental well-being of our young people was under pressure. Almost one in six teenagers in our country is suffering from mental illness. The threshold to psychological care should be lower. This turned out to be the case again last week with the events in Kortrijk and Waregem. That is why we also make an unseen investment in psychological care. But it takes more than just money. Walls must also be demolished and borders shifted. Mental well-being must not be just for psychiatrists and psychologists. We need to involve all those working with young people: from neighbourhood actors to general practitioners, to student coaching staff and sports club coaches. It is a real cultural upheaval, but it is possible and necessary, because it is faster to act to avoid more serious problems. Our country must also remain the turntable of vaccine development and vaccine production. Our researchers and pharmaceutical companies play in the Champions League. We produce corona vaccines in our country for the rest of the world. Last week, the World Health Organisation approved the very first malaria vaccine for children, which was reproduced in Belgium. The vaccine will save tens of thousands of children's lives in the coming years. We must maintain this leading role, and that is why we are releasing resources for a new Belgian virus bank, in order to move faster with new pandemics. We are also renewing the alliance with our pharmaceutical and biotech companies, so that Belgium will continue to grow as an international hub for the pharmaceutical sector in the coming years. Of course, the coronavirus page has not yet been turned. We must remain vigilant and, together with the federated entities, we plan to purchase covid vaccines for a third and fourth dose. As always, we will make decisions based on facts and scientific evidence to determine who needs additional vaccination and when. We rely on the advice of experts and vaccinologists. Nor on the international scene do we spare no effort, because the coronavirus does not stop at borders. No one will be safe until everyone is safe. This is why our country is making significant efforts under the VOCAX initiative, a global collaboration between authorities and vaccine manufacturers. Colleagues, the coronavirus crisis has been coupled with a deep economic crisis. This was the biggest post-war shock for wage-earners, self-employed and business and for the most vulnerable. The measures were a shock, while our economy was in full swing and there had never been so many people at work. Thanks to a strong package of support measures, we have done our best to preserve our economic fabric. All levels of power combined, we have raised almost $35 billion to protect, as far as possible, our families and businesses. The federal government has taken more than its share of the effort. We left no one behind. Solidarity has never been so tangible, so concrete. Our efforts have made it possible to limit the number of business failures and to contain the rise in unemployment. They allow us to recover faster today. Four weeks ago, the IMF wrote in its consultation report: "Belgium has met the challenge of COVID-19 well, with a strong and sustained response from health and economic policies." Not only was our reaction strong, also the recovery is powerful because 2021 will go down in history as the year in which the Belgian economy recovered unseenly. Month after month the prospects were adjusted more positively, even to a growth forecast of almost 6 % and 60,000 new jobs. Exactly today, the International Monetary Fund confirmed an increase of 5.6 % for this year and 3.1 % for next year. Those figures should not put us to sleep, especially since in recent weeks there have been some dark clouds, namely bottlenecks in the global supply chain, rising energy prices and also a heated labour market in our country. If we want to get stronger out of the crisis, we need more. Not only must we recover, our economy must also be renewed, more digital and more sustainable. More people, all people, must be able to feel that progress. It is now the perfect time for new investments, for reforms and, above all, for ambition. That must be our spirit. We have so many assets and so many talents in our country, young people who want to break out, entrepreneurs who want to grow, people who want to shine or take good care of each other. Let us release this positive energy, while looking back at the figures but also daring to invest in people and tomorrow's growth poles. It is about long-term thinking and short-term action, moving slowly on files that have often been stuck for far too long. As we have already communicated to the European Commission in the stability programme, the government is again on the path to fiscal recovery. We will produce a fiscal effort of 0.4% of GDP next year. We will do so at a time when the general derogation clause of the Stability and Growth Pact is still active. We are therefore going beyond Europe's demands. At the same time, we are generating an additional margin of over 400 million through new structural policies, bringing our total effort to 2.4 billion euros. We are holding back the strong growth of certain expenditures such as those related to incapacity for work by trying to look at what everyone is able to do, not the tasks that he is no longer or unable to do, by carrying out a vast reform that requires commitments from all the parties concerned: employers, workers, mutualities and prescribers. For the first time, everyone is responsible. We push further the fight against tax and social fraud. The federal government will also make efforts in terms of costs and operations. We ask professional athletes to make a fair social contribution, while saving small sports clubs. With the security account tax, people with greater contributory capacity are also called upon to participate in the redeployment. New growth also rhymes with new jobs. This summer, we identified 172,000 vacancies in Belgium. At the same time, vulnerable groups are looking for more opportunities. Our labour market is on the move. That is why the current government is putting on the table a comprehensive approach that gives more certainty and more opportunities, by finally moving things that have been committed for years, step by step. Anyone who is long-term unemployed and takes the step towards a bottleneck profession will be able to take a quarter of his benefit for three months. This is good for employers and employees, which is good for our society. We are also committed to labour mobility between regions. The language limit must not be a working limit. We make more flexible rules for e-commerce. The Länder are given greater autonomy in order to lay their own accents. We also make people more resilient. We invest in training with an individual training right for each employee. For the very first time in our country, we use the redundancy allowance to train and activate people. New skills are new opportunities. We offer employees more freedom to plan their work week much more freely, including to work at home, in consultation with their employees. During corona homework was a must and today it has become a total self-evident for many people. It allows us to get the kids out of school and avoid the traffic jams. That is why we ask the social partners to anchor telework and to work on concrete proposals for a better balance between work and private life. On 1 April, the minimum wage will increase in accordance with the provisions of the social agreement. We are reforming the special social security contribution. We thus reduce the trap to promotion and strengthen purchasing power. The complete abolition of the special contribution will be considered in the light of the broader tax reform, the plans of which will be designed during this legislature. In short, we are adopting a comprehensive approach, which involves the participation of as many citizens as possible. It's important for those who work. Having a job is so much more than a source of income. Having a job helps to build but it is above all a form of solidarity because workers collectively contribute to strengthening our social model. Those who say new growth also say investment. The European Innovation Scoreboard placed our country in fourth place a few months ago. Together with Sweden, Finland and Denmark, Belgium is European innovation leader. But why should we be satisfied with that fourth place? Let's go for the stage. After years of underinvestment, we therefore plan the most important investments in the past 25 years. Horizon 2024 provides 1 billion additional investment space, focusing on the two most important transitions in our time: digitisation and sustainability. Almost doubling the European recovery plan. Digital skills, artificial intelligence, cyber security and 5G: they are just some of the major investment projects that are ready. We also invest in research into 6G to help our country set the standards for the fast connections of the future. The authorities are also following the movement. Governments are more accessible, more reliable and cheaper when they are digital. In the future, we will rely even more on digital florets such as Tax-on-web and mypension. These are true success stories that we extend to other public services, through significant investments in police and justice. We scan customs, speed up logistics chains and strengthen the competitiveness of our ports. Courts are provided with the infrastructure they need with the birth of Justonweb. At the same time, we ensure that everyone can follow this development. Three out of ten low-income families do not currently have the Internet, six out of ten low-skilled people have never been in electronic contact with the authorities. We reduce this digital divide by, for example, granting more people a social rate for telecoms and achieving the 'Internet everywhere' objective even in white areas thanks to the 'High-speed' plan. Colleagues, 2021 was also the year in which the crisis hit our country. We lost 41 of our compatriots in the worst floods our country has ever experienced. Belgium was in shock. We felt so small in the face of the brutality of the elements. Who still dares to minimize the scope of climate change? We stand in solidarity with the affected municipalities. We are investing in additional staff for Civil Protection and strengthening our crisis structures. Defence, Federal Police and Public Health are still on the ground today. As you know, we also support the Walloon Region in its reconstruction. But our solidarity cannot, and must not, be limited to the current victims of the climate. True solidarity is about the future. It builds bridges between generations and tackles the core of the problem. The latest UN climate panel presents a particularly grim and unambiguous picture. Climate change is accelerating, we are getting more extreme weather, more heat waves, more drought and more heavy rain. All the lights are on red. It's up to us to avoid worse. We need to reduce our emissions. Addressing the climate crisis is by far the most important task of our generation. It's literally a matter of life and death. If we don't deal with them, there will be more climate victims. It's in our hands. However, we can only succeed if we do not allow ourselves to be paralyzed by doom. The climate crisis is caused by humans. It is therefore up to us to come up with solutions. And that's what we do. The electric cars of the future are manufactured with us, here in Belgium, at Volvo Car Gent and at Audi Brussels. That's good for the climate and good for hundreds of new jobs. Or look at ArcelorMittal in Ghent, 1.1 billion in investments in the production of green steel. By 2030, there will be 35% reduction in CO2 emissions. It's the biggest climate investment ever made in our country. Everyone knows that a small country like ours, with its only climatic efforts, is unable to save the whole world. On the other hand, Belgian technologies will change the world. If we adopt this approach, climate policy will not be a cost, it will not be a budget item, but an opportunity for new growth. Our country is world top in offshore energy production today. Even though our coastline is only 67 kilometers long, Belgium is per capita number 2 in the world in the field of wind energy at sea. We will build on that success story with an energy island and a doubling of our wind power capacity in the North Sea in order to provide green electricity to all families in our country. Let us also export that know-how. It is good for more renewable energy and it gives our companies a new boost. We must also develop this leading edge in other areas. Why should we just stick to wind energy? With a large-scale pilot project with solar panels at sea, we are laying the foundations for a new Belgian technological leadership. By investing in hydrogen, we are building our country into one of the most important nodes of clean hydrogen in the world, to anchor important industries in our country and to be able to drive, heat and produce emission-free in the future. Today, which says energy, says at the same time energy prices. The government has decided to extend the social rate until after the winter and we are also planning a winter reduction of 80 euros for the most vulnerable. Our action, however, goes further and concerns all families and businesses. Starting January 1, 2022, we will introduce an energy standard, simplify the energy bill, and transform federal taxes and public service obligations into excises to better control increases. This is the biggest reform of the energy bill in the last ten years. As a public authority, we must set the right example, as with bpost, the country's most important parcel deliverer who wants to achieve climate neutrality by 2030, but also with additional investments in rail freight transport. The ideal way to reduce truck traffic on our roads is to improve access to our seaports. It is with that ambition and with that institution that the government is going to the UN climate conference COP26 in a few days' time. By 2030, together with our European partners, we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55%. Last Friday, the Council of Ministers agreed to reduce Belgian CO2 emissions by an additional 25 million tonnes by 2030. With the greening of commercial vehicles, we have taken a very important step. Our country will make its part of the effort. Let's get that straight. We also assume our responsibility internationally. We are increasing our international climate finance so that countries most affected can increase their resilience. If we do not, we will only lose lives and increase tensions, instability and insecurity. Which brings me to our safety. Over the past few weeks and months, it became clear that the international security situation is particularly explosive. The withdrawal from Afghanistan did not go as it should and the alliance with the United States came under severe pressure. We need to turn that page. We guarantee our international security only by working with others, with transatlantic partners within NATO, but also with stronger and more ambitious defence cooperation among European countries. NATO remains the cornerstone of our security, but Europe must do its part and European defence must be brought to a higher level. Our strategic defence vision dates back to 2016. It doesn't seem that far away. Yet, in five years, the geostrategic situation has changed dramatically. Consider the emergence of China, the growing rivalry between the United States and China, cyber threats and international terrorism. The government will therefore update its defence strategic vision for 2030. At the same time, we are developing a national security strategy, a comprehensive framework for our country's security policy. Last year, military intelligence went through an area of turbulence. What is important now is to learn the lessons that need to be learned. A new strategic plan will be developed for the SGRS with a simplified organizational structure, with a better flow of information. Cooperation with the Civil Intelligence Service will also be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, security remains our absolute priority. That starts with respect for our policemen, for the men and women on the streets to guarantee our safety. There is no room for violence against our police, I want to make that clear. We will continue with the recruitment of 1,600 inspectors for the integrated police. We opt for a brief follow-up for first offenders, so that they do not slip into a downward spiral of criminal behavior and even more violence; not blind punishment, but customization. We are also stepping up the fight against sexual and intra-family violence. Eight out of ten women and almost half of the men have experienced sexual violence in their lives. We need more reports, more convictions. With four new care centres for sexual violence, we lower the threshold for reporting. Next week the hearings for the new sexual criminal law will start in Parliament. Last but not least, this government is going to be a hundred percent sentence. For the first time in more than 20 years, anyone convicted will serve that sentence effectively. With detention homes and with meaningful detention from day one, we carry out punishments and ensure that prisoners leave prison better than they get in. We were also stepping up the fight against organized crime. It's a fight we're fighting on many fronts. On-line, our Belgian investigators received international praise this year for infiltrating the criminal network SKY ECC. We are also acting financially because there is only one good way to reach the criminals where it hurts: hitting the wallet! Ladies and gentlemen, our country cannot face the challenges alone. The only way to stand strong is to stand with others. Today, our country is more convinced than ever of the importance of European cooperation. [[It is because of the European group purchase of corona vaccines that we are today sticking our heads and shoulders out above the rest of the world.]] In terms of developing, producing and administering vaccines, no one in the world today is our equal. We passed the United States, the United Kingdom and also Israel. Who dares say today that a small country like ours would be better off if we did everything alone, in our own corner, with our backs to the rest of the world? Look at the UK, where the aftermath of the Brexit painfully reveals the cost of slogansque populists who divide rather than connect. There's no gas at the pump and there's empty racks in the store. The Brexiters have mistakenly referred to the European Union as the problem. They are wrong, Europe is not the problem, Europe is the solution. Together, we're stronger. L'union failure la force, unity makes power and the Union also makes us stronger. In the climate field, too, European countries make a difference. Acts go beyond the fine speeches of the other great powers. By substantially reforming emissions trading, relying on renewable energy, energy efficiency, but also with a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, which taxes countries whose production patterns are polluting when they export their products to our country. It's just justice. Let us not be naive, ladies and gentlemen. The aim is not to be able to say "Europe first!", but to defend fair, fair and sustainable trade. It is the only way to push China, America and our many other trading partners to act as well. This is the only way to convince them to join us on the path chosen by Europe, that of climate neutrality. This ambition must also be reflected in other areas. It is time to set up a European management of asylum and migration, with strong external borders. For far too long, we have taken Europe for granted. It is a project that we must continue to build, including our generation. It is precisely our generation that must continue to build on it. Look at what is happening today in Poland and Hungary, with the suppression of Holebi's and other minorities, the stigmatisation of Muslims and migrants, the muzzling of the press and the politicisation of justice. That is simply not acceptable in our Union. This is not about a political disagreement. It is about the violation of fundamental human rights, about fundamental democratic rights in our rule of law. These are fundamental rights that everyone should support, fundamental rights that everyone should defend, from left to right. There is no place in the European Union or in our country for this kind of undermining of our European values. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to my conclusion. The decisions of the last few days and weeks reflect a consensus between seven parties. They also reflect the diversity of our society. Belgium has always been open to the difference. The diversity of voices, from my point of view, is significant. The debates and their results are only better. Ladies and gentlemen, diversity is a fertile ground for new ideas and for creativity. We need these new ideas to make the world stronger, better and fairer after the corona crisis, to bring stability and security, to pry away from what seemed long unwavering. That's what the government wants to work on in the coming year. We want to work on our health, on new growth, on an ambitious climate approach, on our security, to make people stronger and move forward, to make everyone move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for that work that I ask the Chamber to trust. (Luid applaus)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip128x.u29	Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 3:00 p.m., which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 3 p.m. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the trust of the Chamber'. The House may take a decision on this motion only after 48 hours after the tabling of the motion (s. 46, para. 2, Const. and art. 140, No. 6, Rgt.). The Chamber shall give its opinion on this motion at the earliest 48 hours after its submission (Art. 46, second paragraph, Gw. and Art. 140, No. 6, Rgt.). Therefore, we will not be able to vote on the motion of confidence at the earliest Thursday at 3:00 p.m. We can therefore vote on the motion of confidence at 3 p.m. on Thursday at the earliest. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 September 2021, I propose that we meet in plenary for the discussion of the government statement on Wednesday from 10 a.m. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 September 2021, I propose that the Government's statement be discussed in plenum on Wednesday from 10 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 October 2021 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, October 13, 2021 at 10 a.m.
