ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u1	Madam Minister, on 24 April 2021, the Constitutional Court destroyed the law on telephone data tracking, the so-called data retention law, which obliges telecom companies to keep data from their customers preventively. According to a number of organisations, including the League of Human Rights and the French and German language lawyers' desks, the mass storage of data runs counter to the protection of privacy and is therefore considered to be a possible suspect for any citizen. On their question, the Constitutional Court had already destroyed an earlier version of the law. The Constitutional Court also follows the negative opinion of the European Court of Justice. However, the court left some room. If national security is compromised, as in the event of a terrorist attack, all data could be kept for a certain period of time. A more targeted approach would also remain possible, as would keeping records of certain people or keeping records at a certain location over a certain period of time. Telecom operators shall prevent all their customers from keeping a set of data for a period of 12 months, so that they are subsequently available, if necessary, in the framework of a judicial investigation. These are location data, the geographical position of mobile antennas connected to a device and traffic data, in particular a recording of telephone numbers, calls or SMS messages. The police, however, have their hands in the hair, if that data is no longer to be kept. For the fight against terrorism and the war on drugs, these data are a very useful tool, as well as for investigations into who was present at the scene of a crime, or the detection of missing persons. Madam Secretary, what is your position on the destruction of the data retention law by the Constitutional Court? Do you believe that the data retention law constitutes a threat to privacy and is contrary to the presumption of innocence until proven otherwise? Do you acknowledge that the destruction of the law will cause problems in investigating crimes? Do you consider another arrangement possible? Have you already taken or will you take initiatives in this regard and draw up alternative legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u2	Firstly, I was already expecting the judgment on the destruction of the obligation to retain data in general and non-discriminatory terms with regard to electronic communications. The judgment of the Constitutional Court confirms and takes over the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Quadrature du net judgment. It therefore decides to complete the destruction with immediate effect. The European Court of Justice found that an obligation to retain telecommunications data in general and without differentiation is contrary to European law, in particular the right to respect for private life, and that only an obligation to secure telecommunications data in the context of the fight against serious crime and/or the protection of national security passes the test under European law. Given that information, we will of course respect the Constitutional Court's judgment. The Constitutional Court stresses that there should actually be a paradigmashif. Data retention should no longer be the rule, but should be the exception. Secondly, with regard to the presumption of innocence to the contrary, I have already mentioned that access to the data is subject to strict rules. Only a magistrate can give the order to release the data in the context of the criminal investigation. The presumption of innocence therefore remains valid in its entirety. Only an independent judge can use the data in a criminal investigation into serious crimes in the context of the truth finding. You ask if the destruction can cause problems in investigating crimes. I can answer you the following. The judgment is currently being examined in detail and incorporated into a repair law which will register within the lines of the judgment, while allowing intelligence and security services to continue to address serious crime and threats to national security in an adequate and proportionate manner. My wish is certainly to get this law adopted as soon as possible in Parliament, with respect for the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the legitimate concerns about the privacy underlying it. Finally, you ask whether any other arrangement would be possible. I would like to emphasise the following. Data retention has been a means for the intelligence and security services to deal with crime and threats to national security for several years. In many criminal records, the police and the Justice Department use phone records to solve files. This data is a crucial weapon for our intelligence and security services in the fight against serious crime. That is why we are working on a repair law that allows the intelligence and security services to continue to address serious crime and threats to national security in an adequate and proportionate manner. This remains an absolutely important priority, including in the repair law. However, you will agree with me that this is a delicate balancing exercise between the fundamental right to privacy and the fight against this serious crime. However, within the government, we are convinced that we can reconcile privacy with security, in accordance with the case law of the Court, as it should be under the rule of law. The Court itself has provided a number of avenues for the possible targeted retention of telecommunications data with a view to combating serious crime and protecting national security. I hope I have answered your questions with this. I can assure you that this is a very important dossier for me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. The fight against crime is of course important. There's definitely something to say for keeping records to fight crime. However, the protection of citizens is also very important. Combating crime must not be a free-trade area to violate the right to privacy of innocent citizens. Of course, we do not want to end up in a kind of communist Big Brother society where every individual is watched closely, without any reason. There must be a balance between the tools available to the courts and the protection of privacy. You share this view, I can tell from your words. We must also be able to give citizens free access to information about them. I understand that you have already taken initiatives to develop a new legislative framework. That is actually what I am calling for in my motion. However, since this has not yet been formally tabled in committee, I would like to table my motion. Mr President, you have received my motion by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u4	That's right. The Digital Ways of the Chamber are inscrutable, but everything has arrived. So we've taken note of your motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u5	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Erik Gilissen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, - having regard to the destruction of the telephone data tracking law, the so-called data retention law by the Constitutional Court; - having regard to the need to protect the privacy of citizens, - having regard to the value of the data collected by the data retention law in the fight against crime, calls on the Government - to work out a new legislative framework taking into account the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which should enable judicial authorities to carry out the necessary searches without endangering the protection of citizens' privacy." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Erik Gilissen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Erik Gilissen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, - Considering the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the Law on the Retention of Telephone Data, known as the Data Retention Act; - Considering the need to protect the private life of the citizen; - Considering the value of the data collected by the Law on the retention of data in the fight against crime; asks the government - to urgently develop a new legal framework which takes into account the statements of the Constitutional Court, and which should enable judicial bodies to carry out the necessary research without endangering the protection of the private life of the citizen." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Albert Vicaire. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Albert Vicar. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Thank you for coming digitally, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the questions to the Secretary of State for the Budget and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u6	Mr President, thank you for allowing us to continue the sitting so quickly, after we had to stop it faster than I had anticipated last week. Madam Secretary of State, criminals played very well last year on the pandemic and the uncertainty associated with it by extracting people's money through phishing. According to a calculation by Febelfin Belgium, this cost about 34 million euros in 2020, a substantial increase from 2019. Moreover, the phenomenon continues to grow. Cyber criminals extract bank data from victims, such as the code created, by inserting the bank card into the card reader and entering the PIN code. They do this, among other things, by leading victims to counterfeit websites to request their data. In the case of phishing, the legislation provides for two cases in which the bank must bear the financial loss. That is, firstly, when the customer cannot determine the unlawful use of his payment instrument before the payment took place and, secondly, when the customer was able to determine the unlawful use of the payment instrument before the payment took place. In both cases, the bank must bear the loss. Unfortunately, there is a very large 'but' attached to it. In the event of gross negligence, the bank shall not reimburse any compensation. For example, there is serious negligence when the customer has recorded his secret codes in an easily identifiable form and has kept them with his banking app. Where the payment service provider decides not to repay a transaction, it shall report it to the FPS Economy. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you state whether the losses incurred amounting to EUR 34 million in total were repaid by the payment service providers? Secondly, if not, can you then explain in how many cases the financial loss was not borne by the payment service providers and what amount it ultimately amounts to? Thirdly, can you tell me in how many cases the financial loss was not borne by the payment service providers and it was passed on to the FPS Economy? Finally, in the event of a dispute between the victim and the bank about gross negligence, the victim can refer to Ombudsfin, an independent body, which intersperses between them. In 2020 this happened 486 times according to the Pano-reportage that we could all watch. The results that ultimately resulted for the affected clients have not been shown to be clear. What results did this yield for the affected clients? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u7	Mr Moyaers, the losses suffered amount to EUR 34 million. They were not repaid in their entirety. Febelfin does not provide any further information on this, so I cannot give you any further details. 15 notifications were made to the Economic Inspectorate with the suspicion of consumer fraud for an amount of EUR 31,616,34. In 12 cases the consumer fraud has already been confirmed. Three investigations are still ongoing. Ombudsfin informed that in 2020 486 fraud files were declared admissible, 95 of which relate to classical fraud, i.e. fraud through the use of the physical card after the loss or theft of the card, and 393 to phishing fraud. In 2020, 353 phishing files were closed after analysis and mediation by Ombudsfin. In 79 cases, or 36.2% of cases, a proposal has been reached for a friendly solution, sometimes with a full and sometimes partial intervention in the damage. The level of solution of 36.2 % is rather low when looking at the years of treatment of consumer disputes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the figures you already have. In 393 phishing cases an intervention occurred and only in 36.2% of cases a partial or a whole friendly solution was found. As you yourself pointed out, that's not much. After all, that means that a lot of people are still hurt. Last week I read that more than one in three Belgians received a phishing message in recent months and that more than half of them received that message during the last six months. That really is a problem that we must try to tackle. Phishing is a phenomenon in which crooks steal someone's bank code and thus collect money. The number of successful phishing transactions last year alone amounted to 67,000 transactions, with 34 million being lost. What worries me most, however, is that despite the fact that this problem is very topical, 12% of Belgians today still say they have never heard of phishing and that one in three young people, whom we would think they are technically skilled, do not know what phishing is or have never heard of the term. In short, I believe that we must act very hard and take preventive action in order to protect our people as much as possible. Then phishing can be handled properly and people will not suffer so much damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u9	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I refer to my written question. If you have any additional information, please don't hesitate to let me know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u10	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the SPF Economy has adapted its investigative methods and operations to online fraud. He launched the contact point in 2016. Consumers and businesses can submit an on-line alert via the contact point and immediately receive a reply with an opinion and/or referral to the competent authority that can assist them. At the same time, alerts are analysed by the competent authorities which initiate an investigation if necessary. When consumers submit a report through the contact point on facts which fall within the competence of the Economic Inspectorate, the latter shall carry out a legal analysis and, if necessary, communicate the modus operandi of fraudsters to the relevant actors, such as hosting companies and banks. When usable data, such as bank account numbers, appear in the files, the Economic Inspectorate identifies those responsible, investigates the suspect and forwards the file to the competent authorities. The legislation has also already been modernised. In this context, article 3 of Book XV of the Code of Economic Law provides that the supervisory agencies of the Economic Inspectorate have the power to request information themselves from the actors concerned, such as financial institutions. A consultation with Febelfin shows that banks have also made efforts to prevent fraudulent transactions as a result of Internet fraud. They also reported that they were working with other stakeholders, such as the telecoms sector, to address the issue. According to Ombudsfin, the banking sector should rely even more on fraud detection and the notification procedures could be more uniform. Consultation with the banking sector has already taken place at national level in order to achieve a coordinated and uniform approach to Internet fraud. A national working group has thus been set up, in which an integrated approach to phishing is being sought. Through the Fraud Prevention Team, of which the SPF Économie and Febelfin are part, initiatives are being taken to organize joint preventive actions. Building on awareness is indeed the best strategy to protect consumers from online fraud, against which the SPF Economy warns the public on its website, but also via social networks, press releases and awareness campaigns such as "avoid thepieges.be". Again this year, in cooperation with my colleagues and Febelfin, I will carry out an awareness campaign to prevent our fellow citizens from online fraud. It is only together that we will be able to carry out this struggle successfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for providing additional information to your earlier reply to Bert Moyaers. I would also like to thank you for reminding you of the latest developments in legislation in the fight against phishing. Of course, Febelfin is announcing progress on the banks' side, but they are still insufficient. In advance, I thank you for keeping an eye on the development of this issue. I will certainly come back to you once we have read the conclusions of the national working group that you mentioned in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, following the environmental and health scandal of glyphosate in various weedkillers, new environmentally friendly initiatives have emerged on the market. Test-Achats wanted to measure the effectiveness of these alternative formulas. Unfortunately, very disappointing results have been observed. Of the 19 weeds tested and magnified, none succeeded in eradicating weeds. Test-Achats calls for these ecological formulas to be improved but also and above all for consumers to be better informed about their effectiveness. Madam Secretary of State, have you been able to read the results of the test on these weeders? What is your personal feeling? Are there not specific criteria to be met in order to qualify a product as a weed remover? Are these criteria strict enough? Are ecological alternatives compatible with these criteria? Don't you think that this kind of quiucs discourages the consumer from looking for ecological alternatives? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u13	Mr Prévot, I have read the results of the test which Test-Achats recently carried out on the ecological herbicides on the market. To be honest, the results of the Test-Achats study don't surprise me. I am the debate on the use of glyphosate in the European Parliament and the European Commission from the beginning. According to Test-Achats, these herbicides are ineffective in both the short and medium term. If this is the case, the performance statements on the label, such as the first visible effects after three hours, could be considered misleading commercial practices prohibited by Book VI of the Belgian Code of Economic Law, as they influence consumer purchasing behaviour. It is essential that the manufacturer provides correct information on the characteristics and expected results of the product. I maintain my view that the industry must offer effective products and I also believe that it is its duty to invest in the research and development of effective and environmentally friendly herbicides. Indeed, as you yourself point out, there is indeed a risk that consumers will ignore existing ineffective alternatives and turn to products that are less environmentally friendly. Your second question falls within the competence of my colleague Mrs Khattabi, Minister for the Environment and Climate. You can ask him for more details. In conclusion, I share your concern about the need to find true alternative herbicides. Consumers can always turn to more natural, efficient and often more cost-effective ecological alternatives such as hand-made herbicides, floor coverings, intensive brushing, thermal weeders, high pressure cleaners or home-made natural products, provided they do not contain substances harmful to soil and groundwater. It is also important that the consumer has money and that the European rules to which Belgium is of course bound are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u14	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I'm quite on the same wavelength as you. I have followed very carefully the debate on glyphosate, particularly during the previous legislature. There is no attempt on my part to go back in this debate. I agree with you that credible and ecological alternatives must be found. But I am concerned about consumer protection in this and other areas. Indeed, I have the impression that manufacturers do not provide the correct information on the results that can be expected from these so-called ecological weeders and that, therefore, there is a deceit or risk of misleading consumers. That's a point I'm being asked about. For the little wink, thank you for recalling the other possibilities to weed ecologically without resorting to these products which, according to Test-Achats and others, are of rare inefficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, have you read the study by Pierre Ozer, published by Le Vif and taken up by Test-Achats? What do you intend to do to ensure that Colruyt, Delhaize and Carrefour fulfil their legal obligations in terms of origin labelling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u16	Mr President, Mr Prévot, I have been informed of the study of Professor Pierre Ozer, researcher at the Department of Science and Environmental Management at the University of Liège. It compares the environmental declarations of the three main distributors in Belgium with their offers of local and organic products on their e-commerce platform, this for meat and fresh and unprocessed fruits and vegetables. Contrary to what the question suggests, it is, in my view, a specific problem for online sales. The main problem with online origin labelling is therefore rather technical and practical in nature. There may be a difference between the origin of the product posted online and the origin of the product that is actually delivered to the customer's home. There is therefore no intention to deceive him when he chooses products and buys them online. In all cases, the customer has the guarantee to be able to see and verify the origin of the product when he receives the delivery at home, at the counter or at the counter of the removal of the store, and, if necessary, to refuse the product if the origin of the product does not suit him. For example, a customer orders a kilo of cluster tomatoes from the online store. It is possible that when the customer navigates, the tomatoes are of Belgian origin and, on delivery, a small week later, the tomatoes in clusters of another origin are delivered to him, due to lack of availability or lack of availability in sufficient quantity of tomatoes in clusters of Belgian origin during the auction on the market or in the logistics department. Upon delivery to the customer, the specific origin of the cluster tomatoes will be specified. He may then accept or refuse this product, if the origin or quality does not suit him. Technically and legally, it is in fact a matter of accepting or rejecting the order. From a technical point of view, it is very difficult to keep up-to-date the on-line displays concerning the origin of fruit and vegetables in particular, due to the large fluctuations in volumes and seasonality. For example, for the time being, many vegetables (leeks, tomatoes, cucumbers, etc.) are in transition. for which imports from the countries of southern Europe, mainly Spain, are moving to products of Belgian origin. The problem therefore arises from the fact that it is possible to deliver products to consumers as fresh as possible, even in the event of a stock shortage of certain fresh products, within a certain period of time. The consumer may still refuse them when the final origin is known to him at the time of delivery. I have asked the three distributors and Comeos to pay particular attention to this aspect and, if necessary, to invest more in the appropriate ICT. It has been confirmed to me that it will be done. Controls have been and are still being organised by the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy in the context of these obligations both on the labelling of fruit and vegetables, on the labelling of meat and on the rules on online sales. The companies mentioned have therefore been properly investigated and, where appropriate, measures have been taken to put an end to the infringements. However, the controls continue and the relevant regulations are continuously monitored by the supervisory authorities. This should make it possible to achieve optimum compliance of the actors concerned with the regulations in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I had been very interested in the study of Pierre Ozer, a researcher at the ULg. Consumers are increasingly paying particular attention to the origin of the products they buy. I hear that the problems are only encountered during online shopping. You took the example of Belgian tomatoes that could become Dutch a week later depending on available stocks or supply difficulties. We can hear it and understand philosophy. You recalled that we may not accept the order in fine. However, I have the impression that if we refuse the order, in the end, we may be in danger of getting into food waste. This is another debate. I understand that it is very complicated to update the labelling for fruit and vegetables. However, I am as surprised as a sign such as Carrefour labels as Belgian meat of Irish beef, Spanish pork or even New Zealand lamb. Particular attention must be paid, especially to the online sector, to prevent the customer from being deceived and should not, depending on his or her convictions, refuse his or her order at reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u18	Mr Prévot, in his new Action Plan for a circular economy and a cleaner and more competitive Europe, published on 11 March 2020, the European Commission is announcing for this year a legislative initiative for a sustainable product policy. At this stage, the scope of the Ecodesign Directive is being extended. The objective will be to improve the durability, reuse, upgrade and repairability of products; to increase their content of recycled materials; to reduce the use of single-use products; and to combat premature obsolescence. Belgium intends to build on this strategy. The new federal action plan on the circular economy is being developed under the leadership of my colleagues Khattabi and Dermagne. It will include a component on the contribution of the Federal State to the European programme for a circular economy, particularly in the field of product policy and consumer protection – two federal competences. It will also include several complementary federal measures, including ecodesign, repairability, substitution of hazardous chemicals, and sustainable public procurement. The place of the circular economy is central in Belgium, encompassing opportunities for innovation, job creation and the competitiveness of our economy. Through the federal circular economy plan, the federal government will operate the levers and competencies at its disposal. These levers include product policy, consumer protection, public procurement and tax policy. More efficient use of resources and a transition to a circular economy are all necessary in the face of global challenges in the areas of climate, biodiversity and independence from raw materials. Many studies show that resource-efficient economic growth and a circular economy have many advantages. Finally, the circular economy contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) unanimously adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015, in particular the achievement of Goal 12 on sustainable consumption and production patterns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The government agreement is very clear and indicates a willingness to act against the planned obsolescence, with the possibility of changing the legal guarantee – too often to the detriment of the consumer. You made a snapshot of the situation, with the work to come. The circular economy is certainly a sector of the future and I am pleased to hear that you are fully aware and convinced of it. I will not fail to return to this important point of our economy when (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament 55016267C by Mrs Van Bossuyt is postponed. She's apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, in early 2021, you announced your intention to create a "voucher" fund for tour operators. The idea of this fund was to provide zero-rate loans to travel agencies that would find themselves in difficulty due to too many claims for reimbursement of coronary vouchers. The former consumer protection minister who created these vouchers had issued them between 20 March and 19 June 2020. Nearly 202 000 vouchers had been issued, amounting to EUR 356 million. The fear behind these vouchers lies in the fact that travel has not yet resumed, and claims are likely to flow. These claims, coupled with the difficulties of the sector inherent in the health crisis and, just before, Thomas Cook's bankruptcy, are likely to plunge many tour operators into irreparable financial difficulties. At the same time, at the end of February, the Council of State gave a negative opinion on the project, considering that the establishment of such a fund fell within the competence of the Regions. That is why, in view of the difficulties faced by travel agencies since the beginning of this crisis, as well as the opinion of the Council of State, I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, the following questions: what follow-up have you given to the opinion delivered by the Council of State? Do you still continue the work on this 'voucher fund' project? If so, can you inform me about the timing of the implementation of this fund? Similarly, have any changes been made to the draft as a result of this advice from the Council of State? If not, have you contacted the Regions with a view to having a similar initiative in place to support tour operators? I think they really need it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u22	Mr Bayet, to date, no bill has been submitted to the Council of State on the creation of a fund to guarantee the repayment of purchase orders issued by the travel sector. You are probably referring to a bill concerning the granting of a wage subsidy to certain categories of employers in the travel sector in the context of the Corona crisis, on which the Council of State gave a negative opinion. For more information on this project, I would refer you to my colleague Mr Dermagne, Minister for Employment. In consultation with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, we are in the process of preparing the necessary measures to help the travel sector repay the vouchers. The development of these measures is carried out in close consultation with the travel sector and insolvency insurance. Mr Bayet, I have more information available on this, although it is written in Dutch, since the answer was also drawn up for Mrs Van Bossuyt. With your agreement, I am now reading out that part of the answer. If you wish, I can then deliver the text to you in French. As I mentioned, it is the federal government's intention to provide direct loans to package tour operators for vouchers covered by the Ministerial Decree on the reimbursement of cancelled package tours of 19 March 2020. They involve insolvency insurers to play their full role, as they know their members best and bear a heavy responsibility for the aforementioned ministerial decision, and thus to avoid many bankruptcies in the sector. If insolvency insurers do not want to cooperate to handle the administrative part, the scheme may have few chances of success. It is intended that such loans will be available in time to the package tour operators in order to allow the consumer to pay out within the time limits laid down. The interest rate that the tour operators will pay for the loans is more advantageous than is currently requested by the banks, but should also be in line with the European Commission's temporal framework, so that the loans are not considered as State aid. Within that interest rate, the amount will normally be included in order to pay the insolvency insurers for their administrative costs. The loan will have a repayment period of five years. Package tour operators will have to demonstrate that their businesses were financially sound before the end of 2019, in accordance with the European Commission's temporal framework. Any package tour operator, regardless of its size, who has written full and valid coronavouchers under the ministerial decision, will be able to get a loan to repay those vouchers. The aim is to ensure that as little healthy package travel organisers as possible go bankrupt, so that employment and this economic activity in Belgium can be maintained as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for all these answers. You're right, I asked the question a while ago. There were two components: wage subsidies, taken over by the Regions, and vouchers. The Council of State had looked at wage subsidies. My apologies. I am pleased to hear that the government will set up these famous loans with loans of up to five years. I think the industry really needs it and insurers need to play their part. Insurers have taken very little risk since the beginning of the crisis and I believe that they must also play their societal role. I'm still counting on you to remind them. I urge you to activate this project, because I think all our tour operators need it very much. If we want to avoid a large number of bankruptcies before the likely reopening this summer of travel, I think it's more than time to put things in place to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, I had already announced at the previous committee that the question I am now asking builds on the actua debate we had last week, when it was about the drought and how the insurance sector is preparing for it. Then I said that we should also have the courage to look over the wall, especially to the Netherlands. There, the insurance sector accurately monitors the impact of weather-related damage. The result is not surprising. In the worst case scenario of the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute the damage caused by extreme weather conditions will increase by a quarter billion. The climate monitor they use links weather extremes such as storm, hail, precipitation and frost to the total damage to homes, business premises and vehicles. The low water levels and the natural fires are also discussed. The purpose of that monitor is to help insurers better assess risks of damage to their customers. It also helps in product development or in giving prevention advice and accurate warnings to customers to reduce the increasing damage burden. But they also want to place the debate on the costs of climate change in a broader perspective, something that we discussed during the previous committee. The insurers will therefore work closely with the KNMI, the Dutch RMI. With more accurate weather data, they can also allow their customers to take preventive measures and hope to inform local authorities about measures to be taken. These measures also make it possible for insurance products to remain affordable when more extreme weather situations arise due to climate change. I have heard in the previous committee that colleagues also think this is very important. I therefore wonder to what extent the Belgian insurance sector is preparing for climate change and rising costs due to weather-related damage. What impact will climate change have on the Belgian insurance sector? Do you think they are sufficiently prepared for this? Does Assuralia, the Belgian insurance association, do climate monitoring work? If not, do you think it is appropriate that they should do so in future? Does Assuralia work with the RMI to better support customers with weather data, prevention advice and warnings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, the number of days with extreme weather conditions will increase in the future and have new consequences. The insurers and their professional associations are aware of this. The sector is already reflecting on the problems of housing damage caused by the shrinkage of clay soils due to the drought, which is not covered by the fire policy today. We had an extensive exchange of views on this last week. The insurers closely monitor the evolution of statistics on natural disasters and participate in public-sector workshops and initiatives. Recently they participated in the consultation on the extension of the Climate Portal Flanders with climate adaptation tools. This allows them to anticipate the evolution of the damage caused by climate change. In the context of the management of their natural disaster insurance, Belgian insurers also use information processed by international parties, including large brokers, re-insurers, specialised companies in managing calculation models as well as sometimes from information from the RMI or the Regions, for example the flood risk maps. They do this in order to manage exposure to the risk and to be able to put a figure on the expected impact shortly after disasters. In addition, insurers take climate risks into account in their investment policies. They turn away from investing in highly polluting sectors, such as coal. They also focus more on companies that map the transition to a low carbon economy. Assuralia and insurance companies send prevention messages by SMS, via a website or social media. Sometimes these are targeted at specific target groups, for example when the RMI predicts extreme weather conditions. With regard to the risk of flooding, the insurance sector makes available to the public authorities data on floods to allow them to refine risk maps with better prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, we all know that looking ahead and assessing risks are the core tasks of the insurance sector. As regards climate change, it is therefore crucial that insurance companies consider what is possible. You say that steps are being taken forward and that the government is organising workshops. Furthermore, they invest in companies that want to take the step towards a low carbon society. They are also trying to assess the climate risks. That seems to me to be a good thing, but I hope we will be able to look further. By working with, for example, the RMI and collecting sufficient weather data, the insurance sector can play briefly on the ball. Climate monitoring may be part of the preparation of the insurance sector for the effects of climate change and rising costs due to adverse weather conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament 55016757C, 55016758C and 55016759C by Mrs Van Bossuyt are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u28	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, there is concern about beer prices. On May 8th, the catering industry reopens. Everyone is very satisfied, they are getting ready to open the terraces. Everywhere, however, we read that prices will rise. What about the beer price in general? How have prices evolved over the past ten years? Is there a rising or falling line there? How big is it? What was specifically the evolution of prices over the past twenty-four months? Did the pandemic have an effect on that? What can one expect from the price in the near future? Can you compare it to the neighbouring countries? Do we see the same trend there? Is it up there or down there? What would be the cause of any difference? How are our breweries? How many are there? How many have corona gotten into trouble? Have there been breweries forced to close permanently by corona?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, the figures contained in these answers are based on the consumer prices of beer in the supermarket. Detailed information on the price evolution of beer in the catering industry is not available. Over the last ten years, the consumption price of beer observed in the supermarkets in Belgium has increased on average by 2.5 % per year. The producer price of the beer industry, activity class 11.05, increased on average by 1.7 % per year during the same period. In the last twenty-four months, i.e. between March 2019 and March 2021, the consumer price of beer increased by 4,5 %. This increase occurred mainly between March 2020 and March 2021, i.e. 4,4%. The development of the beer price cannot be predicted and depends on both supply and demand factors. Over the last ten years, the consumption price of beer in the supermarket in Belgium has risen faster than in each of the neighbouring countries. Average annual growth was 2.5 % in Belgium, compared to an average of 1.3 % in neighbouring countries. With a constant tax rate, the price in Belgium has also increased faster than in neighbouring countries. In the first half of 2015, there was a significant difference in price developments between Belgium and neighbouring countries, with a much faster increase in Belgium. A new period of widening the gap corresponds to the last 12 months, where prices in Belgium rose considerably faster than in Germany and France, but in the same way as in the Netherlands. The question of price differences cannot be answered as the statistics relate to price indices and not to absolute prices themselves. In 2019, there were 349 companies in NACE activity class 11.05 production of beer. According to Statbel, only one bankruptcy has been declared since March 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, it is still a pity that one company has gone bankrupt, but apparently there have been no major tragedies. It's a good thing our breweries are holding up despite this hard time. Our beer culture remains guaranteed and we are rightly proud of it. It is, of course, a pity for all of us that the prices of beer are rising. It is also a pity that the increase is faster for us than in our neighbouring countries. I suspect that we will talk about this on Saturday, when the terraces are reopened, but we will still have a drink to our freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u31	Questions Nos 55016996C and 55016998C by Mrs Van Bossuyt are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u32	Mr Prévot, the Code of Economic Law provides for regulations on the price of medicines. Covid-19 self-tests are medical devices that are not treated as drugs. These self-tests do not therefore fall within the scope of the regulation of the price of medicines. Furthermore, it is Mr Dermagne, Minister for the Economy, who is responsible for the implementation of this regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u33	I thank the Secretary of State. I have not developed any more because since the submission of the question, I have received other elements of answer. I thank the Secretary of State for these additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, Bitcoin, Kraken, Coinbase or Revolut are growing virtual currencies in our economy. In particular, they attract investors who consider them to be protection against inflation, worrying about large global public deficits. Institutions such as PayPal, Visa or Tesla invite you to pay with this cryptocurrency. Unlike the euro, virtual currencies are not regulated by a central bank. Yet, regarding Bitcoin, its price today exceeds 50,000 euros while it was around 6,000 euros at the beginning of 2020. Very volatile, Bitcoin exceeds all records. I believe that the federal government cannot remain blind to this phenomenon. In front of this craze, the scammers pull out. The Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) points out on its website that more and more crooks are trying to gain the consumer's confidence in order to direct it towards new cryptocurrency that they believe would be a safe, simple and very lucrative investment. The formulae vary: purchases of cryptocurrency, savings books based on cryptocurrency, management mandates, etc. The scam can be made via social networks, an advertisement or a telephone call (called phishing, which was discussed at the beginning of the commission). The method is obviously fraudulent because the promise of gain is obviously never at the rendezvous. Madam Secretary of State, how many reports of scams have been sent to the FSMA? What steps do you intend to take to avoid the consumer's scam attracted by these new virtual currencies? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u35	Mr President, Mr Prévot, I would like first of all to point out that virtual currencies are not a legal means of payment or a form of digital money. There is currently no financial control or monitoring of virtual currencies. It is precisely for these reasons that these products are risky. Since 2014, BNB and FSMA have issued numerous warnings and have advised financial consumers to exercise the utmost caution. The FSMA's mission is to help protect investors from investment fraud, including virtual currency fraud. In 2020, FSMA received 123 consumer reports of virtual currency fraud, compared to 167 in 2019. FSMA has taken many initiatives to raise consumer awareness of the risks of investment fraud and to help victims of fraud. In particular, FSMA has published information on its website allowing financial consumers to recognise and avoid investment fraud. FSMA regularly publishes warnings against websites or companies acting irregularly in Belgium and systematically denounces fraudulent actors to the judicial authorities by proposing blocking access to these websites. In January 2020, in order to raise awareness among the Belgian public, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the FSMA carried out a joint communication action on investment fraud. Moreover, since fraudsters usually come into contact with their victims through social networks, FSMA recently launched a digital campaign against investment fraud on Facebook and Google. As part of this campaign, FSMA has made available to consumers on its website a tool to assess the fraudulent nature of an investment offer. Finally, in order to raise awareness among an even wider audience, the FSMA will launch a new awareness campaign in May 2021 using videos that it will publish on its website. These videos will include testimonies from consumers who are victims of fraud, as well as animated films. These animated films will explain how to recognize and avoid investment fraud and what to do when you are a victim. These films will specifically explain the mechanism of virtual currency fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic457x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the reply that concludes today's meeting. You are right to recall that cryptocurrency is not a legal means of payment and is not subject to any supervision. That's even what makes her so risky. You also indicated that the FSMA and the National Bank of Belgium have issued numerous warnings since 2014. I would also like to thank you for recalling the reporting figures from the FSMA and for pointing out that the FSMA was conducting digital campaigns against investment fraud. I am also pleased to hear that she will launch an awareness campaign through videos on her website. Simply, I hope that these films – and if this body has not thought about it, be sure to report it to it – can be easily shared on social networks, since they are a privileged place for harpooning. It is therefore important to give these videos a viral aspect so that they can be broadcast massively on these networks.
