ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 September 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 September 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u3	Madam President, we are having a difficulty with this amended agenda. Indeed, until Wednesday's Conference of Presidents, it included an inquiry by my colleague Sophie Rohonyi on the state of play on the issue of the decriminalisation of the IVG. I will not dwell on the substance, but the form is a problem. This is an inquiry that was already scheduled for last week, which did not raise any difficulties at the Conference of Presidents that same week, and which was postponed by a week at our own request, so that the Prime Minister – then retained in New York – could be present. The agenda for this plenary session, including this inquiry, was approved last week at the end of the sitting at around 1.39 a.m. I therefore admit that I find it difficult to understand why the Conference of Presidents, on the initiative of one of its members, is asking itself whether there are still thirty Members who support the principle of this inquiry and why it is checked whether this point should be retained. We are used to having the Conference of Presidents add items to the agenda – that is quite normal – but we are getting one out of it – while Challenge is not present in this body; what is regulatoryly normal – is not logical. A bit of correction would have been welcome. Madam President, in a very benevolent way, but firmly, I call on you. Why did the Conference of Presidents feel allowed to question the validity of this inquiry, already approved by itself, as well as in plenary, I insist on that? What is the rationale for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u4	Madam President, I would like to support my colleague's remarks. It is all the more regrettable that he cannot participate in the Conference of Presidents. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps it would be a good thing to consider that parties that do not form a group could also be present. I really don't see the problem that would arise. For five years, we were excluded. I don't think that has brought much. However, the agenda was approved at the end of the previous meeting. So it's weird to go back on that decision. This is not how it was presented. We supported the possibility of a speech in plenary. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the only challenge is to be able to put the question directly in plenary without prejudging the substance of the possible debate. I find this change regrettable and therefore support my colleague's request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u5	Mr. De Smet, you're right. Mrs Rohonyi's inquiry had been brought to the Conference of Presidents at the same time as other inquiries. They received support, but it was not formally verified whether all the inquiries had received the same support. As you wished to postpone the point yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, a group formally asked to verify that the proposal for an inquiry had received the support of at least 30 members. Checked, that was not the case. That's the explanation, Mr. De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u6	Madam Chair, if I follow you in your explanation, when the inquiry is attached to three other inquiries, it is considered that there are thirty members to support it. It is considered so much that there are thirty members to argue that this is no problem that this inquiry should be postponed and the agenda approved at the end of last week's sitting, but suddenly, when there is only the inquiry of DéFI, the question remains whether the agenda unanimously approved at the end of Thursday evening should not be corrected so that the inquiry of DéFI is removed. Excuse me, I may not be as broke up with parliamentary arcane as you are, but honestly, it's only half up. I ask for a vote by sitting and lifted to confirm the agenda as you amended it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u7	Mr De Smet, we must not twist what I have just said. Your inquiry was not attached to any other inquiry: there was a series of inquiries for which they had been requested to be put on the agenda, either in committee or in plenary. All the arrests were, in the movement, accepted last week. Except that, with the postponement requested, there was only your inquiry on the agenda, which prompted some members to question, and we found that this was no longer going beyond the bar. In my opinion, if we had passed, point by point, each inquiry the previous time, we are not sure that the inquiry passed the bar. But that's not the point. The fact is that today you are asking for a vote by sitting and lifted. I would like to give you this vote on Mrs Rohonyi's inquiry into the voluntary termination of pregnancy, which I think is addressed to the Prime Minister. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. The application is rejected. The request was rejected. Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u8	Prime Minister, I actually have a question for the Minister of Health, but I will be happy to do it with you today. I don't tell you secrets by telling you I've been in a hospital before. You will therefore not be surprised that I was particularly shocked when yesterday I saw the figures of the vaccination rate of staff in hospitals and residential care centres. Unbelievable, but true, hospitals and residential care centres are still around care providers who have not been vaccinated. Not just one here and there; for example in the Brussels residential care centres, 1 in 3 of the staff has not been vaccinated. We like to point the finger at Brussels, but also in Flanders and Wallonia there are serious gaps in the defense system and the vaccination rate is not as high as everywhere. I say to you honestly, you expect nothing else from me either. I do not understand this, certainly not from the care staff: that is what the virus can do at close range. I am a member of a liberal party, the party of freedom, and I'm sure you'll say something about that. Well, the freedom of one stops where the freedom of the other begins. For me, this means that the freedom of care providers will cease as soon as patients' health is compromised, even if they are young and are less at risk themselves. That is why I am very concerned, first and foremost, for all the older residents of our residential centers, whose immune system is no longer responding very well and even being vaccinated very vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u9	Your time is almost up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u10	I will be brief and not list all the figures. Shouldn't we just go for the figure 100 (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u11	We're out of speaking time. Two minutes is two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u12	Mrs Liekens, in this case I would very much like to be the stand-in for Minister Vandenbroucke. I've seen the numbers, too. It is important that we have it at our disposal and therefore there is transparency for patients. After all, I can assume that patients in hospitals or residents of residential care centres who have taken the decision to protect themselves from the virus and to be vaccinated should not be put at more risk than necessary by health care professionals. In my view, that has almost nothing to do with personal freedom, that simply has to do with the rights of the patient. A patient has the right to maximum protection and therefore has the right to demand that a healthcare professional is also vaccinated. The good news is that the figure overall in our country is 90%. I fully agree with you: our objective must be 100 %. The objective in the care must be 100 %, there can be no doubt about that. Moreover, at a recent meeting of the Consultative Committee, together with the various governments in our country, we took the decision in principle that vaccination should be an obligation on healthcare professionals. The Health Minister is now trying to legally transpose this and make sure that no mistakes are made, so that there can be no discussion about it later. Let it be very clear: this is about the most vulnerable. These are people who end up in a hospital, not always because of COOVID-19, but for example because of a heart transplant. It makes sense, then, that the health of the patient would not be endangered in any other way. The decision in principle has been taken and we are doing everything we can to put the obligation into practice as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u13	I'll replicate quickly, because the president is stricter than I remembered. Prime Minister, I welcome your statement that transparency is needed. Indeed, it is also important to know which figures belong to which hospitals and how many healthcare providers have already been vaccinated per hospital at the moment. I remain convinced that we should have started compulsory vaccination yesterday. Time is very short; we cannot continue to sensitise, encourage, convince, pamp and powder. It is now time to go for compulsory vaccination; we must not wait until the end of the year, as I heard the Minister for Health say. By then, dramas may have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, yesterday we heard from the press that the federal government had decided to grant a loan without or with interest - that is still to be defined - to Wallonia for the reconstruction and repair of the immense damage that it has to deal with following the terrible floods of July. You are not without knowing, at least I hope, that on the spot, there are thousands of people still in a lamentable situation, who are without heating, without hot water, who have no roof, who simply wonder every day how to send their children to school. I am in daily contact with the associations that support them. I would like to remind you of all this distress! With this help, it seems to me that we are very far from the concept of national solidarity which the Walloon minister-president called for in mid-September, relayed in this by your Secretary of State, Thomas Dermine, who, he proposed a fund of 600 million euro ringing and stumbling currencies. We are far from it! I would like the federal government to recognize the importance of having dedicated resources for reconstruction. Could you please tell us exactly what commitments the federal government is going to make to meet the enormous needs of the local disaster victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u15	Madam President, Prime Minister, many Walloon, Flemish and Brussels citizens have mobilized during these terrible floods. We have to thank them. We were waiting for a strong gesture from the federal state. So we're talking about a €1.2 billion loan at an interest rate "in line with the market rate". Direct and non-conditional assistance is therefore abandoned. Perhaps it will delight some, but it illustrates a particular concept of federal solidarity, especially when comparing it to what is being done abroad. In Germany, in less than a week, the federal government has released EUR 200 million of emergency aid in the affected Länder. Germany therefore relies on solidarity through federal funds and not through loans. We were expecting something else, Prime Minister, from your government. Very cynically, you have just invented the fixed-rate federal solidarity loan that should be repaid. I'm glad it's not a variable rate! So here are my questions. What are the reasons why direct funding or direct support from the federal government has been abandoned for a loan? What do we mean by a loan whose rate is in line with that of the market? Would the Walloon Region not have had an interest in going directly to the markets on its own to raise the same amount? Finally, the federal government is already in default on the financing of relief zones. Will we replay the same play by refusing a disinterested solidarity in the face of a Wallonia that suffers here, let us recall, exceptional floods that have nothing community? They could have hit the north of the country harder as well. Natural disasters are not community-based and the solution to them must not be community-based either. For that, it would have deserved the support without interest and without a fixed or variable rate from the whole nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, I live in Dison and, if I have the chance to live on the heights around me, it is desolation. We can never forget the extreme floods that hit our region, our country in July, but above all the consequences. The human and material record is terrible: more than thirty dead and thousands of victims who have lost their homes, their property and entire portions of their lives. These are images of chaos with which the inhabitants of Verviers, Trooz, Chaudfontaine, Pepinster will have to live for a long time. I would like once again to thank all the public, civilian and military services and volunteers from across the country who have intervened and continue to intervene. Despite all the efforts made by the Region, the situation remains serious. In the face of such chaos, we need more, much more! For several weeks, calls for federal solidarity have been numerous and pressing, both in Wallonia and in your government. High-level assistance is needed in the face of a national disaster. You finally announced today a €1.2 billion federal loan to Wallonia and a number of other support measures. The appeal was therefore heard. Prime Minister, in concrete terms, how will all of these federal measures and the work of the Federal Support Unit in collaboration with the Region be articulated? Beyond this loan, you announced your intention to work towards establishing a true federal solidarity fund to deal with such disasters. What would be its contours? Continue with the idea of the loan or go further, as we suggested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, let us applaud Mrs Bonaventure for her Mayden speech! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister, last July, many floods hit communes particularly in Wallonia, as you know. You went to some of them: Pepinster, Rochefort, Eupen and Maaseik to name only those. During these visits, you met with citizens, local authorities, relief services and provided all these actors with the support of the federal authorities. Prime Minister, last week I was in the same place here and I was responding to one of your colleagues by asking again, as I had already done in committee, for the help of the federal government but not for formal help, strong aid, a strong response to our level of power to a national disaster such as that we experienced this summer. Since that day, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine has made a proposal for aid of the order of 600 million euros and, today, we learn by press that you have met with the Walloon Minister-President and that there would be on the table some 1.2 billion federal aid for the Walloon Region. Prime Minister, can you clarify what the final form will be, but also what the amount of federal assistance will be? What was the conclusion of this meeting with the Walloon Minister-President? What concrete aids will the federal government finally be able to put in place to meet the needs of the ground? Should we not consider amending the institutional legislation in order to allow for an automatic national solidarity mechanism in the event of exceptional calamity, such as floods, such as in Germany or at European level? Would it not, in your opinion, be an adequate response to the events that we have experienced? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, the impact of last July's flood has been unseen and will be felt for years to come. Meanwhile, the phase of reconstruction has begun. The powers lie mainly within the Walloon Region. However, I am convinced that the federal level must not be left behind. It is clear to CD&V that all governments within their responsibilities must try to solve the problem and support the affected people. That is why we were very pleased that the federal government has decided to grant the Walloon Region a loan of EUR 1.2 billion. The Walloon Prime Minister, Elio Di Rupo, had also asked for this fourteen days ago. We are also very pleased that Deputy Prime Minister Vincent Van Peteghem has taken part in the campaign to increase the VAT rate for demolition and construction works to 6% for private owners in the disaster area. In addition, and we welcome that, you said yesterday that you were in favour of a structural approach in the form of an inter-federal solidarity fund for all kinds of major disasters. For that, you will need the cooperation of the Länder. You have stated that you have already written a letter to the Prime Ministers on this matter. We are in favour of this, because in July it happened in Wallonia, perhaps later in our North Sea or in the large port of Antwerp. I have two specific questions for you. Have you received any comments from the Prime Ministers on your proposal on the inter-federal solidarity fund? Wat is...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u20	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. Indeed, when I went there a few weeks ago, my reaction, and that of many people, was to say, "We will do what is necessary." And we did it! When I say to us, I think we need to stop getting lost in a finger-marking exercise and designate a particular government. We're all responsible. In difficult times, we did not get lost in this kind of game and we found what was necessary. In fact, people have been helping from every corner of the territory. People living in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels have expressed enormous solidarity. There is also solidarity between different governments. Defence has made tremendous efforts. Civil protection, police, too. We worked together to try to help as much as possible. Knowing our shortcomings in a crisis like this, we've never done enough. We've seen so many people hit: 40,000 homes. If we have tried to do as much as we can, it is difficult to say that we have done what was necessary. The Minister-President of the Walloon Region sent a letter, fifteen days ago, pointing out two things: first, the difficult financial situation of the Walloon Region, after what happened; and second, a list of specific measures that the federal government could take to help it. I responded at the outset by saying that we would quickly analyse the proposals. Yesterday, we held a Kern and took a list of measures, which were already under way for a large part. I am talking about VAT measures on demolition and reconstruction, which were announced very quickly by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem. We have also ensured that economic unemployment can be used, as well as bridge law and free zones. Many measures had been taken. Then the financial question arises. She's relevant, on the one hand. Indeed, when cities and municipalities face such a huge investment need, it is normal that funding is available. That is why, at the level of the federal government, we have taken the decision to make EUR 1.2 billion available in the form of a loan. This will include a first period during which there will be a waiver of reimbursement. Then the repayments will take place. What did we want to say about the technical details of this loan? We will do so at cost, that is, at the cost to the federal government. This level of cost is very low because interest rates are very low now. This will be a direct transfer to the Walloon Region. Moreover, contacts between Minister-President Di Rupo and myself have been almost daily since the first day of flood problems. I am convinced that what we are doing here is unique. This is the first time a financial structure has been set up in which a government lends and lends to another entity. We have done so because there is no other way to do so today. The special financing law makes very clear what is possible and what is not. What we are doing here is the maximum within the current legal framework. I have indeed sent a letter to the Prime Ministers because I believe that further reflection is needed. What has happened now is a result of global warming, and we can assume that there is a very high chance that climatic phenomena that have a stronger impact than what we are historically accustomed to in our country will occur more frequently. That could happen anywhere in our country. Today, in our federal system, we have no mechanism to organise financial solidarity if there is an impact that is asymmetric. This was actually a national impact, but asymmetric in that the impact was much greater in the Walloon Region. I see that countries such as Germany, including a federal country, have a mechanism that makes this possible. I am convinced that we should not wait for the next disaster and that we should start with it today. That is why I sent that letter to the Prime Ministers, with an invitation to start reflection on it and to find a forum where we can discuss together how we can organise such a mechanism. I think today this is one of the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, you have outlined it in your reply, the victims, the volunteers on the spot, the local authorities don't care whether it is X or Y who has to give. They don't care what the distribution of competences is in Belgium. What matters most to the victims is that their families are sheltered for the winter, that they can have a house, enjoy hot water, gas and food. Indeed, food continues to be lacking due to the lack of shops because they have been destroyed, even if the army and the Red Cross are there. The policies that we are are weary of the advertising effects used by members of your government speaking of ringing and stumbling envelopes. But, for their part, it is not weary that the victims are, but weary of these totally indecent advertising effects and the alms that you do today, while the stakes are (......)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u22	Mrs Matz, you have exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You've made it clear about the cost. For the rest, as Mrs Matz has said in a way, saying that the legislation does not seem to provide for a case in which the State can intervene in an asymmetrical way, you do, it seems to me, very little of the usual creativity we are demonstrating in this country. Is this really impossible? In my opinion, whenever you want, you can. "Where there is a will, there is a path," said Lao Tseu. This may not apply to Belgian political will. Anyway, it seems to me that we could have been much more creative. The fundamental question before us is this: is this a federal state or is this a huge bank? With your government, you reacted as if you were destined to become a huge bank. In my view, federal solidarity must be something else. In your intentions, one feels that envy is there, but, so far, you have not completely succeeded in doing so. Let us hope that this will be the case later!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. For my group, solidarity is part of our DNA. In the face of such human distress, faced with such a dark page in our country's history, this word has its full meaning and must also prevail at the federal level. Time is running out and every day that passes is one day too much. We need to go further. The establishment of a federal solidarity fund to deal with the consequences of these floods, as well as other potential disasters, must be a priority. You have heard our call, and the measures you are announcing are important to respond to this crisis. The reconstruction of the affected infrastructure is a top priority, as is its adaptation to the challenges of global warming. This crisis confirms, alas, that the first victims of the floods are the least favoured. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u25	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I told you, that's good news: EUR 1.2 billion, that's one of the answers I've been waiting for. Nevertheless, setting up an exceptional mechanism such as the one you are considering is not enough. As you said, a reflection is under way, particularly in the face of the problem that I raised earlier in my comparison with the federal mechanism that exists in Germany or the European mechanism. Finally, I regret that you did not reply "Yes, we will try to do so very quickly, so that today we can meet the needs as they arise in the Walloon Region". If it is for tomorrow, it is very good, if it is for the day after tomorrow, it is very good, but, can't we really consider this reform to respond to the floods this summer? I really believe that it takes a little more political courage to deal with a disaster of this magnitude. I know you're aware of that. You have spoken of your will (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u26	Mrs. Song, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u27	Prime Minister, you are right to speak of a unique construction. We have gone to extremes with this loan, the maximum possible within the current framework. I hope that your government will also receive the support of the Prime Ministers for the proposal on an inter-federal solidarity fund, but there is also a great need for the reconstruction of public infrastructure. Both cities and the affected municipalities must make great efforts. It would therefore be a good thing to call for a reduced VAT rate for public infrastructure in the EU, as each euro can help.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u28	Prime Minister, the people have really not been spared lately. We got the covid-19. We've had the floods. We've had the wage freeze by your government. Today we have the staggering rise in real estate prices, food, energy, everything. The PTB, but not only it, the trade unions and even the European Commission are calling for urgent measures such as the reduction of VAT on energy. And you, what do you answer? You answer "Austerity, Austerity, Austerity"! You are asking for a double budgetary effort for the coming year: one billion fixed effort as last year and one billion additional variable effort that you add. However, the Monitoring Committee tells us that the budgetary situation is better than expected by 2 billion. Even the European Commission, the budgetary gendarmerie, says that we can breathe budgetaryly for 2022. But you want to be more Catholic than the Pope! There is also a study by the National Bank of Belgium which generally tells us that Belgium spends a great deal on public expenditure. What is interesting here is to see the detail and how public expenditure is more or less high in Belgium. They are lower in Belgium than in neighbouring countries for public facilities, roads, dams, health care and social protection, unemployment, housing and pensions. Expenditure is higher for wage subsidies such as occupational discount exemptions, which are a system in which the employer takes the workers' tax to pay it to the tax but keeps part of the tax for him. That's 3.2 billion euros a year! This has been multiplied by 15 times since the introduction of this system. Mr Prime Minister, do you not find that instead of increasing austerity, the time has come to help people, in particular by reducing VAT on energy? If there are really budgetary efforts to be made, why not go on the side of the bosses and wage subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u29	Mr Van Hees, you will understand that in the middle of the budgetary debate, I am not going to start the debate here in Parliament. I will hold this debate in my Government. I will refer to the study you are talking about and which you have – this is not the first time – a rather selective reading. The National Bank makes it clear that this is a macroeconomic study. The situation should also be studied micro-economically. I am thinking, for example, of a micro-economic analysis carried out by the Planning Office and the Court of Auditors, which nevertheless makes a significant difference to some of the elements that you are putting forward here. A few months ago, we communicated to the European Commission our stability programme, which, from my point of view, balances two things: on the one hand, economic recovery and, on the other, fiscal recovery. I think, however, that at a time like this when the economy is in the process of restarting, we must ensure that this balance is maintained. There is progress in the economy. We must be careful not to knock it down, but if it progresses, it makes sense to use it to build certain budgetary measures. This balance is not an easy balance. However, the response of the European Commission was still quite positive in relation to the budgetary programme that we put forward. What I just said is not a surprise. This has also been made public. The stability agenda is made by all governments in our country with respect for balance. From your point of view, the answer to everything is obviously to spend more. I don't think that's the answer we need now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u30	Your time has expired, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u31	Prime Minister, I would like to reply on two points. First, you tell us that the economy is progressing, but who is it progressing for? It is true that a multitude of companies once again earn significant profits. In fact, they had never stopped doing it! But for the social situation, it's different. Prime Minister, go to the streets, go to businesses, go to supermarkets to see the situation of people! You can see the cost of the bill for people! That is the reality! People are asking you for social measures. You have to finance social measures. Then you say that the PTB's answer is to always spend more. But no, I just asked you a question about the professional discount exemption, this $3 billion gift offered every year to the bosses! What are you doing to question her? Your Secretary of State for the Budget said that you were going to spend reviews, that you were going to analyze the expenses to see if they were justified. We're still waiting! Here, in the budget, we will still have 3 billion and then it will increase. Since this measure was put in place, these gifts to the bosses have been multiplied by fifteen! If there are expenses to be reviewed, these are those!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am the eighth speaker and no one has congratulated you on your first birthday. Maybe people don't think that birthday's a happy birthday? I imagine you invited the government to a big cake this afternoon. For some ministers that will be the first time they have seen you physically, if I may believe the press. On that cake is a candle that is blown out according to tradition. Given the atmosphere in your government, some may have spit in your cake while blowing. Maybe Mrs. Lalieux spit in there with a retirement proposal? Perhaps Mrs De Bleeker was not so happy, because she wants us to make three billion euros of effort. That's what she's been whistled back for. Mrs Van der Straeten may have lit the candle with a gas burner, knowing that that is the future. What about the corona support? According to the Secretary of State for the Budget, this corona aid should stop at the end of the year, but it was renewed. In short, I don't think you cut the cake. The news reports that have reached us, especially after the recess, are those of a swarming ship, of a ship without a captain, of sailors walking wildly back and forth on deck. When will you take control of the helm? When will you prove you're Prime Minister? When will you show authority? When will you lead that gang that was actually installed with a lot of bombs a year ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u33	Madam President, Mr De Roover, you are a day early, because the beginning of the government was on 1 October 2020, but that does not make much difference in the end. As you point out, it is the duty of the opposition to opposition and it is the duty of the government to govern. That is what we have done over the past year. Have we given the leadership that the country needed for the past year? That's very clear, I think. We have been faced with the biggest health crisis our country has ever experienced. Together with the prime ministers, we have set out the direction to tackle the crisis, by a stable policy, by keeping a cool head at difficult times, by showing empathy towards the population and by motivating people to take the difficult measures that everyone knows to do. In this way, we have made sure that we have made it through the crisis well, including economically. If there was a major economic crisis in the past, there was always a great deal of solidarity, but it is the first time that this solidarity has also focused on the economic world. For the first time, it was not said to the self-employed in the problems that they had to draw their plan. For the first time, it has not been said to companies that had difficulty in keeping their employees in service that they should draw their plan. We have shown a great deal of solidarity, and that has indeed cost something. The IMF is not an organization known as an organisation that says that it is allowed to spend a lot of money, for example, in its analysis of our country's spending that "This is money well spent'. I am sure that the many self-employed who have enjoyed it agree that these expenses were necessary. Now we come to a next stage. You doubt whether the government will succeed in making a budget agreement that goes further in the direction we have set, namely that of modernity, of sustainability and of digitalisation. I understand that you have reasonable doubts about this, but it is up to us to show that we are in it (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, in which you referred more than half of the time to the last year. I have the impression that you may even regret, politically speaking, that Corona is over, because you are faced with the reality of the contradictions within your government. After all, these contradictions are manifest. However, there is also some good news from time to time. In the last few days, I heard a few proposals on the activation and follow-up of long-term sick. Those were good proposals, because they come straight out of our box. You have accepted a proposal from the N-VA in this respect. I hope you will find much inspiration in our proposals for the rest of the year. After all, the impression of the last few weeks leads me to the crucial question that undoubtedly everyone on the screen is asking today. Mr. De Croo, do you still like it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u35	Minister, free public transport is fantastic! That's a very good idea! For years the PTB has been campaigning for free public transport for all. It's good for people's wallets; it's a solution for traffic jams and it's very good for the climate. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is an example. If it's possible at home, then why not at home? In addition, it is positive that other parties - Mr Magnette's - are of the same opinion, not to mention. We see that the lines are moving, and that is a very good thing, colleagues in the PS. But what do I hear from the right-wing parties? "Impossible," "Too expensive!" "How are we going to pay for all this?" You all have a map that allows you to travel free of charge for five years by bus, tram or train throughout the country. So, if it's possible for you, why not for people? That's what people don't understand! Minister, first of all, what do you think of the idea of making trains free? Next, it is not only free of charge but also a better offer of trains. We need both. You have to stop saying it's either. When are you finally going to find additional means to improve transport supply and improve working conditions for railway workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u36	Minister, you have two minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u37	Mrs Vindevoghel, the more we talk about trains in this Chamber, the happier I am. We are all climate ministers. Trains are one of the best ways to achieve our mobility and climate goals. The train is good for the climate. The person who travels by train emits 32 times less CO2 than the person who travels by car. It's good for mobility; it creates fewer lines and they cost us a lot of money. Investing in rail earns. A euro invested in the rail sector brings returns of three euros. Public transport is indeed the future and must attract more people. Tariff policies are also there to achieve this, to achieve this modal shift to the train. We are working on this, indeed with new formulas, such as the Flex-Abo, for part-time workers or teleworking. We have formulas for young people, school subscriptions, free of charge for children under 12 years of age, pass formulas for young people up to 26 years of age. We must continue in this direction to try to attract the person who is driving his car today and who is involved in traffic jams. It's on the government's agenda. We have already taken the first steps in this first year of the legislature with €365 million of investment in the network. As a new minister, I found this network in a sad state. I think that beyond attractive rates, what our fellow citizens expect is a quality service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u38	Attention to your speaking time, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u39	With SNCB and Infrabel, I'm working on it. Thank you, as well as others, not present in this room.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u40	Mr. Secretary, you're missing an opportunity here. A number of parties ask for free tickets. Now is the time for you to go there, particularly in the light of your statement that you are ambitious and that you absolutely want to take the environment to heart. We do not want half-hearted solutions. We want good solutions, not just for us, but for everyone. A lot of people need to get that free ticket. In particular, much more resources are needed. That's what I belong to the people in the workplace and the chemists. Every month there are a hundred less employees. There will have to be more resources, otherwise we will not get there, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u41	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the government, before I give the floor to Mrs Matz, I would like once again to point out that speaking time is strictly limited to two minutes for the question and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u42	Madam President, Minister, last night the RTBF broadcast a remarkable report on corruption in football and the exorbitant salaries paid to players. It's totally indecent! I hope you could see this investigative report. Meanwhile, we are looking for ways to rebuild after the floods, we are looking for ways to support companies or people in precarious conditions during the co-vid. With the corruption that exists and the tax advantages, the taxes paid by football players who earn considerable amounts are roughly equivalent to those paid by a technician or a surface technician. You have recently stated that you want to review this system – it is also in a very good place in the government agreement – and that it would be fair to go and get the money where it is, that it was unfair for such amounts to be paid without a fair reward. The government is therefore committed to ensuring that this reform can be implemented. Mr Minister, has an agreement been reached within the government to carry out this reform, which is essential if greater tax justice is to be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u43	Madam President, Minister, despite what we learn every day, for the moment, about the world of football, at some point or another, we have all already vibrated for football. Whether it is the mordu who will see all the matches of his club, whether it is the dilettante who shouts his encouragements to each goal of the Red Devils or the parent who accompanies his little one or his little one at the edge of the field on Sunday afternoon, we all have a story with football. And we always have more fun when it's played fairplay. And fairplay is not limited to the edge of the field! Thanks to the current system, the footballer who earns 300 000 euros a year or more will pay a maximum of 10 000 euros of social security contributions, which is the foundation of our solidarity. With this system, it is 100,000 euros less for solidarity and for the community. But, on the other hand, the worker of a company, Logistics Nivelles for example, will pay contributions and taxes in their entirety. Support sport! Yes, of course, but not when it is only in favor of the richest and not in such a mismeasure. We're talking about 200 million tax and parafiscal gifts. The more the athlete earns, the more subsidized he is. It's not normal. That's not fair. This system works on its head! It can be understood that footballers make a good living, but no one can understand that these high salaries do not contribute to solidarity. The Ecolo-Groen Group wants a far-reaching reform. We want to support sportsmen and sportsmen who need it and move on every day, sometimes for a salary of misery. Minister, I only have one question. How do you intend to integrate the tax justice dimension into this necessary reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, I want to make it clear that the recent revelations in Operation Zero also feed my imagination. Like you, I can only be disgusted and angry! Operation Zero has updated various elements related to match rigging, money laundering, tax fraud. The Public Prosecutor's Office is continuing its investigation. I hope that he will soon be able to present his final conclusions. In this context, I can also inform you that my own ISI administration has several ongoing investigations. The ISI has obtained the right to consult the judicial files. First, these investigations focus on the fiscally relevant facts highlighted by the judicial investigation. On the other hand, some ongoing investigations are not necessarily linked to the file but have been initiated previously. They mainly concern the remuneration of players' agents. In addition, I would like to point out that, with regard to the aspect of money laundering, the CTIF verifies suspicious financial transactions. Football clubs have recently been subject to reporting obligations under the Money Laundering Act. This legal extension was born precisely from Operation Zero and is currently being developed by my colleague in charge of the Economy. The legislator therefore did not remain inactive. This gives us an important leverage to bring more transparency to financial transactions in football. Although Operation Zero is primarily a judicial case, the revelations naturally highlight the fiscal and parafiscal benefits that exist for sports clubs. I was very clear on the tax and parafiscal benefits last time, here in plenary. In this context, I can tell you that I am currently preparing a reform in this area with my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke, the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. As soon as the project is ready, we will present it to the government. I hope to do so as soon as possible. You will understand that it is currently premature to explain it in detail here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u45	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers to both the ongoing investigations, the whole corruption and fraud aspect, but also and especially the reform project that you are putting in place. I just want to say that we would understand that you are coming in phase with this project. We know that there were also a number of government parties that were reserved on this issue by saying that this was not the time, since the clubs had already suffered. You are simply told that it is indecent and that it is no longer possible for this system to remain. We urge you to be able to come to the table as soon as possible because, as you also said, this system is a mafia system. This is how he was also qualified by the authors of yesterday's report. We must act when there are so many requests that are made elsewhere and that we often have to say no to other things. I'm really asking you to press this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u46	Minister, thank you for the answers you have given. I see every day what sport and what clubs bring into life. Overall, most people love football and also like footballers to pay their taxes. I hear what you are saying in relation to the ongoing investigations, particularly by the ISI, what you are saying about the reform that is under way, and that is so much better because at the moment it is the world upside down. In this reform, we must overthrow the system and ensure that those who find it difficult to make ends meet can benefit from a boost. I hope that we can move forward, that all partners, that everyone can come together to work on a system that can be both supportive and fair. Indeed, from my point of view, it is quite normal for sportsmen to earn their living, but sportsmen who earn bread, butter, butter money and the smile of the supporter must also contribute to social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u47	This week, Minister, we have had to see an embarrassing round of blackbirds about rising energy prices between the various policy makers in this country. The blames were flying around. It was the fault of the megainvoice of green electricity certificates, which the socialists left behind, it was the fault of the many Flemish taxes on the energy bill or the federal VAT rate. The hot potatoes were pushed through at a record rate. In the meantime, however, nothing changed at all. However, there are poignant testimonies about energy tariffs. For example, I read about Hendrik from Kluisbergen, whose gas tariff goes up by 125 %. Michel from Sint-Katelijne-Waver will not pay 124 euros from now on but more than 200 euros to his energy supplier. Minister, when nearly a million families in this country have to use a social tariff to pay the energy bill, there is something very wrong with the energy bill. That invoice is a disguised tax bill. One third of the gas bill and no less than two thirds of the electricity bill consists of all kinds of charges and taxes, which have nothing to do with the real energy costs. A further 21 % VAT will be added. Minister, when will you do something about that? Why do you not want to reduce VAT on energy to 6%? After all, energy is a basic requirement, and that would mean that every family would earn more than EUR 300 on average. I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u48	Madam President, Minister of Finance, we are facing a surge in gas and electricity prices in markets that is quite exceptional and that is sustained in time. When you look at Dutch TTF, it's now about 90 euros per megawatt/hour for gas. When electricity is produced with gas, it necessarily has a bearing on the price of electricity. When we read De Standaard newspaper, we learned yesterday that gas has increased by 48.9% more than last year and that electricity has increased by 20%. Structural measures are being taken in the face of structural situations. Moreover, the MR does not see how to escape the extension of two nuclear power plants in such a context. There are also short-term measures that fall within your competence. It may be a question of social tariff. But the longer we extend the latter, the more the middle class will drink because, in reality, it is she who pays the social rate. In addition, there is the energy standard for large companies. In this case, however, all electricity consumers pay, with the exception of those who benefit from the social tariff. As far as we are concerned, we would like to defend a formula that is that of the ratchet. Since, in our electricity bill, we will have, thanks to VAT, but also perhaps soon thanks to excise duties, an opportunity to play on the taxation of this bill, I would like to know what your intentions are with regard to the implementation of a ratchet that would allow, when prices rise, to benefit all consumers of electricity – the big, the small, and above all the means?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u49	The energy bills are swinging out today and there are several reasons for that. There is increasing global demand for natural gas, the historically high CO2 price and there are manoeuvres from Russia. The result is simple but dramatic, we have a historically high energy bill. Families and companies are caught very hard in their wallet. People with a variable contract or a contract that is about to expire have serious concerns. Gas invoices rising by 125% are unfortunately no exceptions. People face high advance invoices or ask themselves to be able to pay an increased advance because they are afraid to be unable to pay the final invoice anymore. In short, people are concerned and we share that concern. These people are now looking at the government because they hope that the government will take measures to reduce the energy bill. This is a responsibility of both federal and certainly regional energy ministers. Everyone must look within their powers at measures that can help to dampen that energy bill. Today, people who are struggling to pay their energy bills have absolutely no message to ministers who point to each other and suddenly make proposals to reduce VAT, for example, even if they have no authority to do so and their party has always opposed it. These are political games that give false hope to people who are already struggling. We expect all ministers to act, within their powers. We all know that the energy bill is a hidden tax letter. You have announced that you will carry out a reform and that you will transform the federal taxes into an excise duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u50	Minister, Minister, every family in this country is looking at its energy bill today. If energy experts say they're counting on a warm winter, then there's really a problem and there's a need for extra policy. Something's happened. Soon we'll get the simplified invoice, which will help. The law on dormant energy products will push the most expensive products on the market from 1 January. That will also help. The extension of the social tariff has undoubtedly already helped, but we really need to look further today. This enlargement is certainly a piste, but it is a temporary solution which certainly does not apply to every family. So I think we should look at other solutions without taboos. I heard Eneco's CEO say today that it is time for the Flemish and federal taxes on the invoice to disappear. We agreed that they would certainly not rise, but perhaps we should indeed look at a reduction. Is that a piste? Is that negotiable? I hear others referring to the mega profits of the core operators, but the Minister says that it is not easy to do something about it. I think we can look at that effectively. There is no way that we, like Flanders, can take no action and now give large companies discounts. That's really not an option today. You're going to work on the budget this weekend. You are going to talk about the vision for this country. For me, it is quite clear that gas prices prove that we really need to invest in the energy of the future, in affordable, reliable and clean energy. We need to get rid of the dependency. That's the only way out for us. I would particularly like to ask today what solutions you see in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u51	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, energy prices continue to concern everyone. The invoices of families and companies go up to the level. They shout out that something must be done about it, but in the meantime the government remains deafeningly silent. In Flanders, millions of euros have been dropped on the energy bill in recent years and what does your government do? Nothing. You're getting even better from the whole situation today. Energy prices are rising and you will get more VAT revenue. Our nuclear power plants produce at low costs and the higher the electricity price, the more taxes in cash. Madam Minister, this is the case with the current system. For the next few years, you will already receive 40% of those profits in your account. The only question is whether you will also use those funds to reduce the energy bill or whether a whole bunch of sintering lists of government parties will come up with that money. If so, how will you explain this to our citizens and businesses? Moreover, it remains very bizarre that, in these times of expensive gas, in these times when Russia and the Middle East determine the conditions, it is being used to build new gas plants, which are polluting and which will cost us a lot of money. You want to kill the chicken with the golden eggs as soon as possible. The nuclear power stations, which provide us with money today, must be closed down. The nuclear power plants, which do not produce CO2, have to come out and at the same time everyone is wondering whether that really was the worst investment, the worst investment you could come up with. I have three questions. Firstly, will you use VAT to lower the energy price? Secondly, you will instruct the CREG to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u52	Mr Wollants, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u53	Madam Minister, it really doesn't matter which kitchen table you and I would join today, the subject of discussion is very easy to guess: rising energy prices. Let us be honest, that would also be the case if we bought a Dutch, a Spanish, a German or a French kitchen table. That is logical, because we all need energy and energy prices are rising everywhere, worldwide. People are rightly concerned about how they will pay their energy bill at the end of the month. The problem is too serious to smear it with bickering and poke. There is only one way out of the climate crisis and there is only one way out of the energy transition, that is by working together. For example, many energy powers lie with the regions. That is where we have to work on well-insulated homes, so that people do not burn more than they need to. There we must remove unnecessary taxes from the energy bill, so that the energy bill does not become a second tax bill. There, citizens and businesses must be encouraged to invest in renewable energy. And yes, also federally we must do what can be done. That is how you advocate the extension of the social tariff, Madam Minister. You're not alone in that. The King Baudouin Foundation also mentions this as the most effective measure for those who really need it. And yes, we must also dare to look at the responsibility of the largest energy producer in our country, who is currently able to make huge profits. Madam Minister, Minister, everyone must be able to go with us. We're not leaving anyone behind. How will you ensure that everyone is involved in the energy transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u54	Madam President, Minister, on the bus, on the train, on the street, the explosion of energy prices is in all minds and on all lips. It's an unprecedented explosion. It's never been seen. And I think there's a real concern in the population. How do I pay his bill? How can we cope with the coming winter, with the temperatures that are refreshing? Electricity, gas, fuel oil, diesel at the pump, everything increases at a really incredible, exponential speed. Take, for example, gas and electricity. The regulator, CREG, calculated that an average household of two adults and two children could pay up to a further EUR 1,000 on the energy bill, without any real prospect of a short-term decline. Minister, I suppose you're going to spend part of your weekend writing the budget outline, but I would like you to keep in mind the urgency and the need to help households cope with this unprecedented surge in energy prices. How can we meet the needs of families, the elderly, the isolated people who will face the winter? How can we cope with the weight of the bills that fall and accumulate? I know that the government is sensitive to these issues. I know that this government wants to find solutions and I want to see proof of the extension of the social rate achieved during the covid-19 crisis. But we're going to have to go further to keep sticking to the reality of this crazy price surge. Minister, in concrete terms, what leads and solutions can you put on the table to help households and support purchasing power? How are you going to respond to this surge in prices that seem not to want to stabilize? What solutions will you defend during the coming budgetary conclave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u55	Madam President, Minister, Minister, the situation is very serious at the moment. People just watch their energy bill explode. They sometimes have to pay 1,000 to 2,000 more euros a year. How can you afford that? That is still feasible for ministers, because they earn 10,000 euros a month, which is not a problem. But for the people 1,000 or 2,000 euros more per year is priceless. Something must be done about it. Who gets the jackpot in Belgium, when people pay more for their energy? Electrabel, in the pocket. Electrabel ensures non-gas production. The PVDA study department released that in De Standaard yesterday. The figures are not questioned: 25 euros per kilowatt-hour production price and today Electrabel sells at 90 euros, 110 euros. The quarterly prices go up to 170 euros per megawatt hour. In the pocket. And what does the state do? He says nothing can be done about it. Madam Secretary, a little voluntarism, please. Go get the money where it is to help the people, because they need help. I have heard your Green colleague say that there is still more to be paid in Spain. That's not true. In Spain, the government has decided to tackle usury profits and use the money to reduce VAT. Yes, a VAT of 6 % is positive. Four years ago, N-VA was still in favour of 21% VAT. Do you remember? Suddenly that party has changed its mind, isn't that genius? Change my mind, I always find positive. I think a VAT of 6% is a good proposal. Madam Secretary, you say the rich are going to take advantage of it. This is not how it works: VAT is not used to make the rich pay. Are you going to make the phone more expensive? Bread? No, if you're gonna make the rich pay, you're gonna have to do it with a rich tax. VAT is the most unfair tax because...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government is obviously very much aware of the impact of rising energy prices on families. In the context of the budgetary negotiations currently under way within the government, we are looking for solutions, solutions that help families today, but also structural solutions that will also protect us from excessive fluctuations in the future. This is why a reform is under way, with a view to abandoning the federal surcharges and taxes that are part of the current energy bill. Our intention is to transform them into an excise system. Indeed, with the latter, public authorities can intervene in case of need to mitigate fluctuations and carry out a more targeted energy policy in the context of budgetary discussions. The reform is an important step to keep the federal share of the electricity bill under control. Moreover, we must, of course, be aware of any additional levers, such as the temporary extension of the social tariff or the promotion of energy-efficient housing. By the way, the federal government is already doing this, with the VAT reduction for the demolition and reconstruction of obsolete buildings. The federal government takes the issue of energy bills particularly seriously. It is a problem that we are also discussing at European level. After all, our families expect an answer. I assure them that solutions are being made a real priority at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your absolutely justified questions. Mrs Buyst is absolutely right. Wherever the kitchen table is in Europe today, everyone is currently facing these rising energy prices. Minister Van Peteghem said it, this government has already acted. After all, it decided in February to extend the social tariff. Sometimes it gets tucked out of here exactly a little bit. A single working mom who concludes an energy contract today pays up to 1,800 euros for electricity and gas together. The social rate limits this to about 1,000 euros. That is a difference of 800 euros. So don't tell me this government hasn't done anything. With this measure, the government reaches 20% of Belgian families. It's about people who work and have a modest income. It's about people who are retired and have a small pension. These people are already protected today. That is why, in the budget discussions, together with Mr Dermagne, we will be defending an extension of this rate by 2022. I am absolutely not insensitive to the remarks that have been made here about the middle class, because these price increases affect everyone. About two thirds of the people who have a fixed contract today are protected if their contract goes through. For the people on a variable contract, the council is that they have to keep comparing. I do not want to hide behind this either, because at the moment other measures are being prepared within the government, with a view to controlling the federal share. This is a commitment to the coalition agreement currently being worked out by our teams. That way, we can control the federal stock. A general VAT reduction may sound good, but not everyone can enjoy it in the same way. It also applies to people who may need it a little less. That's why it's our goddamn duty to look at the people who are really having a hard time today. This is not about competition between the people who are having a hard time and the people who are having a hard time, it is not an easy situation for anyone. As Mr Van Peteghem said, we are on everyone's side. Finally, I would like to say something about nuclear interest rates. Mr Verduyckt, I agree with you that we need to do something about this. I have therefore asked the CREG to map and objectify it, both for nuclear power stations and for the production of wind energy at sea and even for suppliers. Where are the profits? The excess profits of nuclear power stations have, of course, already been discussed. I had that looked at immediately, because we have discussed it several times in Parliament. However, I had to say that I am bound with my hands and feet. Some speak of a nuclear power discount, I speak of a strangle contract. In the context of the extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2, a contract has been concluded with the operator, which makes it impossible to change things unilaterally, including as regards the repartition contribution. Mr Hedebouw, that's a nice show: "Show yourself a little voluntarist." That works until we're in court and Engie gets right across the board. That is why we will focus on measures that really take us forward and make us more resilient at high energy prices. This has to do with the energy efficiency of our homes, and reference has been made to the fiscal advantage of this and to the continued use of renewable energy. If we had done so more in the last 20 years, we would have been better protected today. However, this does not prevent us from facing the future, from dealing with the problem with both hands and from continuing to work on all fronts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u58	Minister, Minister, you do not want to know about a reduction in VAT on energy. It would pass its purpose, but that depends, of course, on what that goal is. If it is your aim to eat the state cash, you are absolutely right, but if you really want to help the many families who are rightly concerned today about whether they will continue to be able to pay the energy bill, then you will not come up with a proposal to replace one of the so many taxes on the large electricity bill with an excise duty. That's a tissue for the bleeding. You must come up with thorough measures and not take the citizens for fools. These thorough measures are very simple, remove all this opaque tax junk from the energy bill and reduce the VAT on energy to 6%. Energy is not a luxury product, energy is a basic requirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u59	Madam President, I thank the Minister of Finance for his answers, which are hopeful, but at the same time we must be vigilant. First, replacing the federal share with a share of excise duty in our bill will not reduce the bill: it will simply try to avoid a further increase in the bill, because the federal share, for example, is the overload for future offshore parks that will be installed in our North Sea in the years to come. That being said, this share of taxation in our bill, which will be an equal means of bringing to the benefit of all segments of the population a decrease when prices are going to rise, is precisely the vector that will allow the categories of citizens not to oppose each other. Let us say that, whatever system we choose, we must be extremely careful, because every time this system challenges the budget, it is the taxes of tomorrow (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u60	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. We are, of course, pleased that you are taking action. CD&V today launched an action plan with concrete measures at all levels, both in the short and long term. We agree that today's energy bill is a disguised tax bill and that it urgently needs to be reformed. We are pleased that you are taking the first steps. The best guarantee for a lower energy bill is still less energy consumption. We therefore call for the interest-free renovation loan to encourage more consumers to renovate, and, of course, for the extension of the reduced VAT rate for demolition and reconstruction. In addition, we have been waiting a while for the introduction of the energy standard. We hope that the Minister for Energy will soon come up with an initiative on this issue. We don't want to leave anyone behind either. In any case, the social rate should be retained for the original target group. That is already a very unique and very social measure. An extension of enlargement is discussable and sympathetic. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u61	Mrs Dierick, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u62	Indeed, doing nothing is not a solution in this energy crisis. We need solutions. We don't need constant attacks at all. A Flemish minister of the N-VA, the largest party in Flanders, says that the core exit is the cause of rising prices, while all power stations in the country are still running. Mrs Demir wants to reduce VAT, while her party has increased VAT itself. Where's the credibility? Flanders must take its own measures to reduce the energy bill, such as measures to improve the degree of insulation, because the best power is the power that is not consumed, and the cessation of reductions in energy to companies. That is a policy of the past. I want to contribute to the policy of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that it is becoming a habit for ministers not to give me an answer. That means a number of things. Firstly, we heard last week that the EUR 200 million increase in the federal contribution is coming anyway, because it is not contradicted. Secondly, I also hear here that the additional VAT revenue is apparently already divided. Apparently, they're already in the pockets of the various government parties. Thirdly, 40% of the profits of nuclear power stations must not be used and the Minister is hiding behind it. That is a pity, because that means that our people remain in the cold. The social rate is a good thing for a small group. There is, however, a much larger group which is equally difficult and which does not have to pay for the extension of that social tariff but the basis of that social tariff. This summer, the CREG warned that you were running out of EUR 30 million. In the meantime, it will already be around EUR 100 million. Where do these pennies go and what do you do for that group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u64	Colleagues and ministers, 20% of Belgian families call it a small group. One in five of the Belgian families is helped by the strengthening of the social tariff. In other words, this is a measure that makes an effective difference to those who need it. All this, unlike the Flemish government, which saves on family benefits and thus affects the most vulnerable in our society. This federal government clearly has a social face. In addition, it is proposed to convert the federal tax into an excise duty. In human terms, this means that we are going to regain control of that energy bill and that is what we are asking of you. Finally, I asked you about the responsibility of ENGIE, the largest energy producer in our country. Apparently, you're tied up by a deal the previous government made. The favourable situation for ENGIE is thus settled. This shows once again that it is not a day too late...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u65	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the solutions you are proposing in the face of this unprecedented situation: tax solutions and the extension of the social tariff. We believe that this social tariff should be extended or extended, but that will not be enough. Other solutions will also need to be found both in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, there will necessarily be an immediate reduction in the bill. Imagine, for example, an energy check that will have a direct and concrete impact on people's bills. And structurally, let us reintroduce a safety net that will prevent the existence in Belgium of unjustified or inexplicable price increases. Minister, Minister, together propose an immediate reduction on the bill, which should be commensurate with the unprecedented economic and financial consequences of this surge in prices for households and families!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u66	Mrs Van der Straeten, how can a good minister describe the statement that ENGIE-Electrabel is making so many usury profits as showtime? Come on, we got the numbers. I'm glad you're finally asking for an analysis. 100 million euros a month goes into Electrabel's pocket, just because it sells energy. And you say that's a show! I really don't agree with that. You're talking about the social rate. Who here in the Chamber is familiar with the evolution of the social tariff in recent months? Well, the social rate has doubled, because it must remain market-oriented! That's the problem. It went from 1.6 to 2.7 cents per kilowatt hour. Moreover, no fewer than 9 million Belgians can avail themselves of it. We have to help everyone. I cannot be explained that in Belgium we pay 21% VAT for electricity, as much as for caviar and champagne. Who's gonna explain that on the street? Not me, Madam Secretary. So change something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u67	Madam President, Minister, for the past seven months the Brussels Prosecutor's Office has been working with an acting King's Prosecutor. The situation which is, in general, already complicated in this prosecutor's office seems to be getting worse. It appears that approximately 15 per cent of the staff would have applied for other functions. In addition, I quote, instructions would have been given to "classify cases without action" in financial and criminal matters under ordinary law, due to a lack of resources. In the face of the announced departures, the prosecutor's office should therefore make choices. You have announced the creation of a specific public prosecutor's office for taxiing and that you are ready to accept sliding functions, which may weaken some sections. This situation is likely to lead to demotivation in the judiciary. In addition, the instruction that would have been given to file no action is obviously detrimental to offenders and victims. Minister, do you confirm this instruction to file without further action? Will the vacant places that will be published make it possible to fill the places that will be released? When will this publication take place? Do you have any prospects for the appointment of a King's Prosecutor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u68	Before giving you the floor, Minister, I repeat once again that the two-minute speaking time must be strictly respected. If this is not the case, the microphone is automatically switched off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u69	Madam President, dear colleague, yesterday, my cabinet had a meeting with the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels. This appointment had been planned for some time. Mr. Tim De Wolf did not complain about a lack of staff, on the contrary. Like his predecessor, Mr Jean-Marc Meilleur, he assured me yesterday that with the number of judges and lawyers currently available to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, he was able to carry out his duties. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office currently has 109 judges out of 119. There are also 43 prosecutors for legal support, of which 6 have recently been recruited. No other public prosecutor's office has that. In addition, 9 judicial trainees will start working at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office from 1 October, i.e. tomorrow. The rotation is indeed high, but I have been assured that it is not higher today than usual. Brussels is the meeting place for many institutions such as the Federal Prosecutor's Office, the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation, the P and R Committees and others. I agree with you when you say that the public prosecutor's office in Brussels is an important prosecutor's office. The challenges to be faced in Brussels are not least, such as the problems specific to large cities. Brussels as the European capital is the host city of many international institutions. That is why the government has made the historic decision to refinance Justice. This year and next, there will be a large number of additional collaborators and magistrates. You know that we hire 827 new staff, including 116 magistrates, 67 referendums, 106 prosecutors, 36 criminologists and 113 clerks. A large part will be allocated to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. The concrete decision will depend on the distribution of colleagues. Finally, I would like to express my full confidence (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u70	Minister, I am pleased, although I had no doubt, to hear that you are very attentive to this issue. However, the figures you give me and the fact that you confirm that the prosecutor's office is in a position to respond to its tasks are more appealing to me, in the light of the information that there would have been instructions to file cases in financial and criminal matters under ordinary law without further action. It is essential for the MR to be vigilant on this issue. The right to be safe is essential to the MR. It's the guarantee of our freedoms. Without effective and efficient justice, security risks becoming a mirror to larks. Moreover, since we have all decided here (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u71	Mrs. Gilson, your microphone is off. Thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u72	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to take the floor for a question of principle. We know an evolution of technology. Anything can be done with smart cameras today. If I've read it correctly, smart cameras are being used in Leuven today to shoot people who go jogging and sports. I do not know exactly what we are doing with these images, but that is in order to better align the finality of sport policy with the habits of the athlete. That all sounds quite innocent, but I wonder what they are doing with these images. Are they stored and used only for the finality that is meant by it, which is to refine the sports policy? Then tomorrow we can also film people who sit in a fast-food restaurant and say that this is happening for health policy. Mr Secretary of State, I know you as an authentic liberal, no matter what I am. We have seen in recent years that cameras have to be used for a number of things, such as the fight against terror and the covid pandemic, for a number of things that really affect the general interest. Then there is always the important principle of proportionality. The fundamental question I would like to ask you is whether you think that what is going to be done in Leuven is still in line with the principle of proportionality. I ask myself big questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u73	Madam President, Mr Dewael, I have read about this project in the press. Technology enables us to do anything, but in a state of law there are democratic rules of the game that determine what we are allowed to do. It seems to me that the leap from placing cameras that guarantee the safety of the citizen to placing cameras to analyse the citizens' sports movements is a great leap. In any case, any processing of personal data must pass the test of the GDPR and the privacy law. Data, including personal data, are at the heart of all the challenges of society. In this context, respect for privacy must also be central. Therefore, the evaluation and improvement of the privacy law is of fundamental importance. Over the next few weeks, we will have a chance to tackle this problem. It is essential to guarantee respect for privacy and also to allow innovation. Every citizen must understand and know that his personal data are protected and that innovation should only serve to build a world that respects our core values. That's the point of the work I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, I note that an evaluation is under way. That is also absolutely necessary. Big Brother is watching you. I agree that we're putting cameras in the fight against serious crime. If this is necessary in the fight against a health crisis, I agree with it. Or to establish speeding violations, I can still get in. However, if you use cameras too often, you should be careful not to cross any borders. If it happens today to finalize the sports policy, tomorrow one can put a camera on every friestot to check whether a particular person has a good eating behavior. The question is above all what is being done with these images. Is the guarantee of privacy for me that a basic right is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, with 150,000 to 200,000, they are in our country, the illegals. And yes, I use the word illegals, because I find that some people like to hide reality by talking about 'people in illegal residence' or'sans-papers', so 'people without papers'. But they're not those people, because they have papers. They have a paper that says "order to leave the territory." The fact that these people choose to disobey that order is their own fault. The fact that they can ignore that order to leave the territory at all without any consequences is your fault and the fault of your predecessors. It could be simple, though. The dramas behind the decayed facades in Brussels, the massive fraud, the house meltdown, the exploitation, the extortion, the finding that foreigners are cheating on each other and the state, there would be no question of doing what you need to do, namely to control our borders, to enforce readmission agreements and to ensure that any order to leave the territory is actually carried out. But you refuse to do what needs to be done. What is more, you are making it worse, Mr Mahdi, because in response to the massive fraud by illegal immigrants that was brought to light yesterday, you say that illegal immigrants who are involved in an investigation into fraud and economic exploitation have the opportunity to obtain a residence permit, even if they have already been ordered to leave the territory in the past. For the umpteenth time, you are sending a wrong signal that illegal immigrants who have ignored their orders to leave the territory still have a chance to obtain a residence permit. It is not too late, Mr Mahdi, to do the right thing. Flemish Interest proposes a lot of concrete measures to reverse the tide. One of them, the national visa sanctions, referred to you as unrealistic in committee last week. However, only six days later, yesterday, France introduced the measure and proved it to you wrong. So what's stopping you from finally taking action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u76	Thank you, colleague, for your important question. When it comes to migration policy, it's about rules. One of those rules is that anyone who calls on the asylum procedure and eventually finds out that he or she cannot stay here is effectively following a return order. One thing is certain, with the policies of the past few decades, we find that there has actually been some sort of tolerance policy on illegal residence for decades. This is not just the case in Belgium, but in many European Member States. In fact, the Court of Auditors at European level has also indicated that only one person in five who has to return returns effectively across Europe. So something must be done. I hope you will also look at what we have done and do. There is a need for a reform of the return policy, based not only on an A4 given to someone, which is an order to leave the territory, but which must be an effective enforcement policy, with efficient return guides, voluntarily if possible, forced if necessary. We invest in both. I would like to see foreigners, who have left everything behind and come to this place in the hope of building a future here, re-integrated into their country of origin. If that is not possible, we must invest there too with a view to forced return. We have also invested in return counselors there. You received the figures in committee. In total, it concerns 4,000 applicants for the 300 jobs, which are filled out. In total, more than 700 people will strengthen our services to make an effective difference. However, you also partly indicate that it is natural (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, your speaking time is over. The microphone's off. That is the rule for everyone today, both for the members of the Chamber and for the members of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u78	Mr Mahdi, you seem to be saying a lot, but you are not actually saying anything. There are no concrete measures, there is no plan to drastically reduce the number of illegal migrants in our country. I will give you what you should say, Mr Mahdi. Your answer should be that, from now on, you will seek to effectively execute any order to leave the territory, that you will make it possible for the police to effectively follow the execution of such an order, even at the illegal home, that you will open up new closed return centres in an emergency procedure, that you will use the customized return unit for families, that you will detect social fraudsters and severely punish them, that you will join at European level the countries that advocate closed external borders, that you will organise more distress campaigns, that you will tighten family reunification, that you will introduce national visa sanctions and enforce readmission agreements, that you will finally give the people the migration policy that they are begging for. There you go, Mr Mahdi. I hope you have taken note of all these very concrete and realistic measures, which have already been taken in many European countries (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u79	Minister, despite the high vaccination rates in our country, many people are still infected with corona, including in the workplace. Today I heard from the press that you want to extend the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease to all sectors. Until now, this recognition has only been possible if people work in health care, and for some time it has been applied to people with essential professions, such as firefighters and police officers, but not anymore. Enlargement to all sectors is a good thing, because it will apply to everyone who is infected wherever. Whether one is a nurse, waiter, cashier, fireman or construction worker, if one is infected in the workplace, one can get recognition. This is important because one then retains 90% of one's salary if one is ill for a long time, instead of only 60% for another disease that can sometimes last for a long time. Moreover, hospitalisation costs are refunded. That is good, but I wonder if the conditions of entry are not too strict. Access to recognition is only granted if there are at least five infections within 14 days. It must also be shown that the infections have occurred on the work floor. This can be through contact with a colleague or a customer. Isn't the condition of five infections too strict, especially for small businesses? It is perfectly possible that we should work closely with two colleagues and that one colleague should light another. That is as bad as working with 50 colleagues and then getting five people infected. Why not choose a condition of two infections, as Sciensano suggests, especially when the regulations apply? Are you prepared to revise that and with a minimum limit of two (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u80	Mrs Lanjri, a disease is recognised as an occupational disease where it is likely that there is a causal link between the occupation and the disease. Then it's an occupational disease. We are proposing something very new, namely the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease if, on the basis of a number of infections at work, we can assume that there is a causal link between work and the disease. We assume that it is likely that there was an outbreak because of work if five people are infected in a period of 14 days, and in that case it is an occupational disease. By the way, these five people don't all have to be employees. It can be about customers and suppliers, so even in a smaller company one can detect an outbreak that has to do with, for example, a supplier. You referred to the number two used by Sciensano to indicate a covid outbreak. That is a completely different context. That number is used in a context of detection and testing, it is not a question of establishing that it is plausible that an occupation or a specific work situation was actually the cause of an infection. You call this approach strict. He is very innovative and he is building up a new kind of solidarity. Solidarity is the essence of social security. This is such a valuable asset that we have to deal with it very carefully. So I will defend this careful approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u81	I support you when you say that there must be a form of solidarity, but there must be solidarity with anyone who is infected in the workplace. It doesn't matter if this is because of contact with one colleague who was already infected, causing oneself to become infected, or with five colleagues. It is equally likely that people will become infected by working closely with another colleague who was already infected, for example. Continue with that renewed system. Covid is an exceptional situation and is an exceptional disease. It is important that people get that status when there is a connection. No one should be excluded on the basis of a number, for example when only four workers are infected while five workers should be infected. Let no one be excluded from this arrangement. Anyone infected with corona in the workplace should be recognised as an occupational disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u82	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are 500 000 long-term sick people in Belgium. And 10,000 of them want and can work. Actually, that's absurd. On the one hand there is a shortage on the labour market and on the other hand people with a lot of capacities are just sitting at home. One thing is certain, and I would like to stress this: the harsh policy of the previous government has not paid off. The solution therefore lies in a positive and stimulating policy. People need to be seen for what they can do. Voka also seems to see this now. We could read that in the press yesterday. More attention should be paid to discussions between employers and employees. Let us hope that more attention will also be paid to seeking and finding adapted work. We can certainly endorse that philosophy, but the fitnote they put forward as a magical solution does not seem okay to us. This creates an unnecessary intermediate step, witnessing the negative experience in the United Kingdom. And so you ask more of the over-questioned general practitioners. They are experts in the field of disease, but they are not business advisers. Then how do we move from a disease to appropriate working conditions without that unnecessary intermediate step, without the fitnote? The only answer is there: by the back-to-work coordinators. They see the story on both sides, they can seek and find multidisciplinary solutions. They're the link we're missing now. Minister, the current system of getting back to work is complex, both fiscal, financial and procedural. People are unnecessarily at home because of that complex procedure. Can you assure us that you will simplify that system? Will these back-to-work coordinators make a fundamental contribution to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u83	Madam President, Minister, there are almost half a million people in this country who are ill for more than a year. In about a third of the cases, psychosomatic problems are involved. For years, our party has been asking great questions about the government's inadequate approach to this issue. Not only my party is very critical. An audit by the Court of Auditors on the reintegration of long-term ill is downright devastating. The analysis contained in the report, which is not yet available to Members of Parliament, has been made clear by the press. According to the Court of Auditors, reintegration pathways are apparently used earlier to definitively declare or fire people unfit for medical reasons rather than put them back to work. The Court of Auditors is extremely critical of the government's follow-up to these routes and notes that the most basic figures to evaluate the follow-up of these routes are also not kept. In addition, the discussion about the fitnote has now been unleashed, as a possible means of solving the problem in part. It concerns half a million long-term sick people, a large part of which is due to a lack of psychosocial well-being at work. Minister, the Court of Auditors revealed a number of problems in the policy. Do you find the Court of Auditors' criticism justified? How many long-term sick people do you intend to put back to work with the 60 return coaches you planned? What is your opinion on the fitness note as a tool in the reintegration of long-term sick? What incentive will you give employers to focus more on well-being at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Voka's inspiration in the proposals they made yesterday is excellent and I fully agree with that. If a person is declared unfit for work, it must be a signal to look for opportunities for that person and offer solutions-oriented new perspectives. However, I do not think that Voka's precise proposal is very helpful. It places a responsibility on the general practitioner, while the general practitioner may not be the most qualified person. It is essential that, when a doctor prescribes a certificate of incapacity for work, this is an immediate signal for action in our system, reflecting on the opportunities and abilities that people still have in spite of illness. That's exactly what we want to do. I have proposed a first step in a comprehensive reform of the approach to long-term disease. This first step means, among other things, that we will organise a completely new process of information flow, which also requires a lot of investment in ICT, whereby that certificate of disability written by the general practitioner or another doctor immediately initiates a process in which opportunities are sought to get back to work. The proposal I have made gives point by point an answer to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors' criticism of the policy being pursued is indeed devastating. I think that criticism is largely justified. When you see my answer to this document, you will see that I am making a concrete policy proposal on point by point on each element and on every recommendation from the Court of Auditors. We will indeed act faster. The health insurance funds will be strengthened, but in a way aimed at finding work. We will also introduce greater multidisciplinaryism. We will organise the flow of information and ensure that policies are followed and evaluated. So point by point, each of the Court's recommendations is answered in the proposal I made. However, there is more. I have tried to work quickly on a first step in that approach. We will organise the flow of information differently and see the certificate of incapacity for work as a signal for action. We do not want to see that certificate as an 'out-of-use' of people. We want to strengthen the health insurance funds in a role that must be activating. In the next few days, in the context of the budgetary debate, I will present a comprehensive and ambitious plan to my colleagues in the federal government, not only extending the scope of action to civil servants and self-employed persons, but also defining additional actions in the field of labour market regulation, for which my fellow Minister Dermagne is responsible. However, he would like to participate in this. Furthermore, I would also like everyone involved in the dossier to be able to make a responsible contribution, which also makes a contribution. We will appeal to the regional governments to make much more ambitious, stronger and more efficient use of the activation of long-term sick people. We will respond to employers; we will ask the sickness funds to take a great deal of responsibility; we will also give the doctors more responsibility and we will of course ask the people concerned to take their responsibility. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u85	Thank you, Minister. It is positive and heartwarming to hear that you are breaking with the policy of the past. Anyone who is honest has to admit that this has not worked very well, except for a lot of layoffs and people who are sick at home. We are also hopeful, Minister, that you will adopt a positive and stimulating approach, an approach to opportunities. I sincerely hope that not only colleagues have listened today, but also employers' organisations. In particular, they must clearly put their shoulders on the project of the return to work coordinators. Coordinators, Mrs. Samyn, no coaches. A very important difference. This project can only succeed if everyone puts their shoulders on it. Everyone has an interest in ensuring that those who can work work work effectively - the employers, but also the people who are now sick at home. I really hope that your plan will have a positive effect on those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u86	Minister, it is a pity that this purple-green government has been forced to inform us of plans, decisions and audits by the press. You seem to have been able to take a look at it, not us. This shows little respect for this Parliament. As far as fitness is concerned, we are afraid of additional workload for the already heavily burdened general practitioners, who are not trained to do so. As for the treatment of the long-term sick, with only your 60 return coaches by 2023, we are not going to get there to guide the long-term sick back to the workplace. More needs to be done to address the cause. Do you already have a good idea of the root causes? What are these causes? Too little pay for work, no appreciation for the work done, bullying at work? It would be useful to have a thorough study on this. Otherwise, it's another size for nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u87	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u88	The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2058/1-2) The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2058/1-2) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 19 July 2021, members were able to vote from Monday 13 September 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 July 2021, members were able to vote from Monday 13 September 2021 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present (Ms. Melissa Depraetere and Ms. Katleen Bury) are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present, Ms Melissa Depraetere and Ms Katleen Bury, were invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there was a consensus at the Conference of Presidents last week that an oral report would be presented today, but suddenly that consensus was no longer there in committee, allowing me to refer to the written report. I would like to thank the services that have made this possible. Since you received the report yesterday, I shall confine myself to the result of the vote in committee. Vote for: two members of Ecolo-Groen, two of the PS, two of the MR, one of CD&V, one of Open Vld and one of Vooruit, voted against: two members of Flemish Interest and one member of PVDA, and abstention: two members of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u91	Thank you for your very brief presentation of the report, Mr De Caluwe. That is a good recommendation, ladies and gentlemen. If there is a written report, we have been able to take note of it. Then what is the point of having a detailed reading before the discussion? This prolongs the debates unnecessarily and certainly does not increase the tension. Mr de Caluwe, your example should be followed very closely. There is something to be said about the consensus in the Conference of Presidents, but you were not there and cannot speak firsthand. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to divide my speech on the cooperation agreement that has been submitted into a number of chapters. Firstly, with regard to its parliamentary treatment, it was inappropriate and inadequate for many reasons. We discussed this in committee. For example, the golden 48-hour rule was not respected by a long time. That rule states that, out of respect for Parliament, at least 48 hours would be given to Members of Parliament after submission of texts in order to take note of this and to prepare for the debate in committee. We only received the final texts on the eve of the debate in committee. Minister, I have to say that you seem like a multitasker, which only women can do. But let me come back to my speech. So we didn't get 48 hours to read the text. However, before the recess, an agreement had been made at the Conference of Presidents. As something like this has happened before, we agreed that the 48-hour rule would be respected. I had the pleasure, just before the recess in committee, of getting a commitment from Minister Vandenbroucke, but unfortunately that agreement was already broken at the first opportunity to implement it. Of course, that doesn't make things easy. It is a very serious text. We did not get the final text until the evening before the discussion, at 10 p.m. Even worse, we received the Dutch text of the interesting opinion of the Data Protection Authority 2 hours before the discussion. The Council of State was also put into difficulty, which stated that it could only give a partial opinion in view of the very short time available. That has everything to do with the fact that I insist that this happens several times - that the government fills in the word urgency quite creatively. The only real form of urgency is that an unexpected event suddenly puts us in a position to act quickly. It is an event that we have not been able to foresee and to which we must respond. That's a real urgency. I am thinking, for example, of the texts that have been discussed here in connection with the flood disaster. No one could predict this disaster and Parliament had to be able to act effectively in a faster mode. There is another form of urgency, one because of the lack of time that arises when you or other ministers bring in your texts too late. Even then, there is urgency. That goes without saying. Then too, the time to speak and act is very short. But that's an incited urgency. This is an urgent matter, which is the result of late notification of the texts to be discussed by Parliament. The day before yesterday in the committee, I asked you very strongly that it would be the very last time that the government took advantage of the concept of urgency in this false way. And you have replied that you have every sympathy for that. I regret that method. Nevertheless, we have not used any means of getting a delay manoeuvre out of any of the Rules of Procedure, so that we would not be able to conduct the discussion here. The matter is too important for that. That brings me to the positive part of the cooperation agreement. There are two aspects to this. The first aspect is that the cooperation agreement will enable measures to be taken in the very near future specifically to address the situation in a particular region or regions. A differentiated policy will be possible. That is of the utmost importance. Flanders must not suffer from a failing vaccination policy in Brussels or Wallonia. However, I would like to take this opportunity to stress the following, particularly for Brussels. The Prime Minister has just beaten his chest because the government has successfully dealt with the corona crisis over the past year. However, let us be honest. The most successful part of the policy of the last few months was vaccination. It is precisely the organisation of vaccinations that is only the merit of the regional authorities and, in particular, the local authorities, who certainly did excellent work in Flanders and were able to put vaccines in the arms of their inhabitants with great success, which was an intensive logistical exercise, which resulted in an extremely high vaccination rate in Flanders in particular. We are very happy about that, because this high vaccination rate......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The first element was the possibility of regional differentiation. The second important fact in that cooperation agreement is the limitation, especially in time, that is in the use of the Covid Safe Ticket. It is rather a good thing that this restriction is in it. Time limits have been set for that. In normal circumstances, we will be able to say goodbye to it in the foreseeable future. We shall abstain in the vote. I have just said that we are constructive in the way in which this can be implemented, and that is why it is a good thing that this should be given the appropriate majority in the Länder. The situation in which our group finds itself is such that our voting behaviour gives room for a nuance. I would like to share that nuance very explicitly with you all here, and that is the third part I would like to mention. Despite the advantages I have just listed, we must remain extremely vigilant about the introduction of a pass society. We must not trivialize this, we must not assume that it is normal for citizens to have to identify themselves before they can engage in normal activities. It is of the utmost importance that proportionality is monitored. We have had terrible months with the corona virus and its spread, which has put pressure on our health system. The images of Milan in Italy, where people had to be cared for in the hallway, have made it clear that we do not want such situations with us. The old principle à la guerre comme à la guerre must also be used in the weighing of rights. The right to health is a fundamental right and the right to freedom is a fundamental right, but at times you have to see how to balance it. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, you said in committee that we should be careful because we are not home yet. I thought that was a very striking expression. You were saying that we are not yet where we need to be in the fight against corona. When we're not home yet, when we're not yet where we need to be, we need to make clear agreements on where we want to go. I don't have any papers because I think this gallery should be occupied by people without papers. That is why I will quote by heart. For example, when you say that we can never rule out a future flare-up, I believe that the word has never been very well chosen. We will never be able to rule that out. We must, of course, be careful not to formulate the objective in such a way as to give the impression that we need to go to a moment where we could definitively exclude any kind of flare-up. If that's the objective, we're definitely in a pass society. Then we finally have some sort of responsibility for restricting or restricting freedom. In this sense, the accompanying texts to this agreement have sometimes been put in some panicky terms. Mr. Secretary, when you said we're not home yet, I used the metaphor that I have the impression that your house is a caravan. After all, you are systematically moving them. When we're almost home, you move the house or drag the caravan. Remember the golden rule that we would use 500 occupancys of IZ beds as a border. Well, this morning we were just over 200. Fortunately, we have kept that line far behind us. Today it appears that this criterion is no longer being used. Remember that at some point the realm of freedom was also linked to a 70% vaccination rate in government circles. In Flanders we are not only above 70 % or 80 %, we are also well on our way to 90 %. We must be careful not to damage the credibility of the public, which has made very hard and commendable efforts to combat the corona crisis, by giving the impression that we are treating the people like a horseman on a mule with a stick and a root. That root is held up by the horseman. The root will never be reached by changing the measure each time. I say that with a view to proportionality. Local conditions can certainly lead to far-reaching measures being taken today in certain regions to introduce a pass society. This is part of the autonomy of the regions, but to what extent it is still proportional in Flanders. I'm not the only one who says that. The words of the Data Protection Authority do not lie. I cannot quote them literally because I do not have the papers here on the floor but there is talk of far-reaching breaches of privacy and of the right to anonymity when one enters social life. The Data Protection Authority warns about this. Please note that you do not make that right too easily subordinate to other rights, be careful that it remains proportionate. We want to strongly support this warning with our voting behaviour. The measures must remain proportionate. No longer give the impression that draconian measures must be taken if they are no longer provoked by the figures. If the lyrics give the impression that the Covid Safe Ticket is the alternative to far-reaching limitations of social life, that is an easy way to sell that Covid Safe Ticket. Of course, people think that this is a very low price for getting back many freedoms in social movement. Only the question is how far that goes. What is the point of this choice and to what extent can this freedom be granted in social movements without the need for a pass system? That division, that choice is too easily presented to the population. If you don't accept those passes, know that your social life is being restricted. I dare to warn against the presentation of things as if that were the only reality. That also has consequences. At no time did we doubt the usefulness of vaccination. I think there is a Chamber-wide consensus on this. We do not want to support the refusal of vaccination at any time, but it is a fact that this House and this government have considered it wise not to require vaccination. Therefore, make sure that, if you do not introduce an obligation, you do not introduce a penalty regime for those who fail to fulfil the obligation. That is something that needs to be questioned. Given the circumstances and the degree of vaccination in Flanders, it is up to the politicians not to fire that growing animosity between the two groups. On the one hand, with the fearful anti-vaxers, who think that poison is being sprayed into the arm and who on the social media are more or less obscure witnesses to it. On the other hand, there is the culture of fear: woe to your bones if you come anywhere near a non-vaccine. We must also pay attention to this. For the record, this division does not go through half of society. Society is not split in half: it is a large group versus a small group. From a political point of view, we must not fire that division. I am surprised that a particular aspect was not mentioned, either by the Data Protection Authority or by the Council of State, but he himself said that he could only make a limited assessment of this agreement. The floor was hardly heard during the committee's discussion either. And that word is I.D. The Covid Safe Ticket, and few people make the link, is only fraud-proof if it is offered together with an identity card, or as they used to call it, another single identity card, for example a driver's license. I just want to point out that this isn't a big deal. There too, we must be careful to standardise the public with regard to job students, guards of celebrations and festivities, waiters, and non-qualified staff. We must not give the impression too easily that it is normal for them to be able to carry out identity checks. I refer to the discussions that have been held in a broad social context and where there was a great deal of indignation in certain circles when it was asked whether it was not possible for soldiers in a high-risk area in our country to be able to carry out identity checks on suspicious persons, persons making suspicious movements or something like that. Then it was said you really couldn't do that. That couldn't be entrusted to the military, they had to be police officers. That argument, of course, could not be completely wiped out. You must dare to draw a line at that point. It is bizarre that now we are no longer talking about soldiers in uniform in service, but about identity checks by almost Jan and alleman. We would like to warn that this is seen as a normal development. This is not a normal development. These data mean that we still need to evolve in the search for a balance between privacy, freedom, normal behaviour and the normal freedom to attend activities as citizens on the one hand and health risks on the other. In the first and second wave, this aspect might have been more important because of the epidemiological situation. A shift is taking place there today. We are counting on the possibilities offered by this cooperation agreement for the introduction of a pass society to be handled with great restraint. Flanders will probably actually do that. In other regions there may be more room for these controls, but we also want to give the signal that this normalization is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u92	Mr De Roover, you are in opposition, so you must, of course, emphasise as much as possible that you do not agree with the policy of the De Croo government. That's your right. In particular, you are arguing against the cooperation agreement, which is also your right to do so. You did the same in committee, so you are certainly consistent in that regard. You have also explained why you have abstained and will do so now, but you claim that you want to make a nuance in your voting behaviour. You also repeated your metaphor about the caravan. You have also used it in committee, as we have read in the written report. Working with objectives is a good thing, because that's what we're talking about. I am very much in favour of working as far as possible, including in policy, with objectives, in order to determine in advance what the objective is to be achieved and to make an evaluation of it. However, in a crisis, and certainly in a health crisis, that is very difficult. In Flanders, for example, the Minister of Education at a certain point also introduced targets for education, with colour codes. I thought that was a very good idea, because it does provide clarity. However, when these figures are achieved, we find that something always comes up that makes other decisions. I am not saying that that is wrong, I understand that, because a crisis usually does not come alone and is often a combination of a number of other things, which sometimes means making decisions that may be more like improvisation at the time. In fact, I have one specific question for you, Mr De Roover, and it will probably not be entirely unexpected either. Can you explain to me what is actually the difference between what your party approved in Flanders and what is going to be put to the vote? Why do the warnings you give here not apply in Flanders and here? I think the nuance you want to give through your voting behaviour might be more of a vote on the one hand/on the other hand, because I certainly agree with you on privacy. We can't be light-hearted about that. Of course, we don't like passes either, nor do we like a division in society. Those are all things that we have to pay attention to, and I agree with you on that. But this is exactly what this cooperation agreement wants to make clear: clearly defining the limits and clearly defining the balance. Hence my question. Why can this be done in Flanders, and why can't it be done here for your party?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u93	Mr de Caluwe, I am glad that you are asking this question now, otherwise this Half-Round would be held hostage for a while by my search for new words for when that question would be asked. Moreover, I am very pleased that you refer to the Flemish Minister for Education, Ben Weyts, because I think he has really followed a model course in the search for that balance between health and the freedom of education. Within a piece of improvisation, but there's no other way. We are all faced with new circumstances which, fortunately, we had no experience of. However, when one looks at that route, in the light of the situation we knew, I think he has almost always made the right decisions. Also in consultation with both the field of education and with the virologists and with the people who have some sense of it and can say meaningful things about it. In paragraph 3, I shall refer to our voting behaviour. Secondly, I feel that I have a theoretical supporter in you with regard to safeguarding freedoms. It's even your own prime minister who warned against the pass society. So when you ask about your voting behaviour, could you ask why the Prime Minister, who is against the card company, is now introducing it? That question could be asked. However, the circumstances have not got any worse. On the contrary, the circumstances have, fortunately, improved. You have given some peculiar reasoning, which has everything to do with the link I was talking about. You have said that this is not a reduction in freedom, it is an extension of freedom. It sounds paradoxical that we need to reduce the freedom of some people in order to extend everyone's freedom. That paradox is based precisely on the starting point that I mentioned and to which the Data Protection Authority pointed: that is the only way to reopen society. That balance must be guarded. It must not be automatically assumed that passes are the only way of collectively defending health in such circumstances. I am opposed to this equivalence. There are alternatives, especially when figures evolve as they evolve. I now come to your question. Yesterday, Mr Lorin Parys in the Flemish Parliament pointed out the potential dangers of the cooperation agreement. We will also make sure that they are in no way true in Flanders and that the agreement is not abused. At the beginning of my speech, I repeated what I said in committee. We are a responsible party. I'll make it clear to you. If our voting behaviour in this House is not free vote, because we unfortunately cannot break the majority for me and, fortunately, in some people's minds, we would like to use the freedom in this House to make the necessary demands through our voting behaviour. We would, should we in the Flemish Parliament show that same voting behaviour, jeopardise the approval as such. I drew your attention to the fundamental advantages of the cooperation agreement. It's the duty of the opposition to oppose, please. That's the second time that saying has turned up today. I do not know whether I have spoken so oppositionally, if that were the case, we would be voting against it when I said that we support the basic data and the basic starting point of the cooperation agreement, which is the possibility of a differentiated policy, and that we are in favour of it. I am sure you would agree with me on that, should you have full freedom of speech. However, there are potential dangers to the cooperation agreement, namely in terms of the evolution towards the pass society. That is what we want to emphasise with our vote and, above all, with its content, which goes a little further than the three-part for, against or abstention, and I hope that this nuance will be reflected in politics. In other words, if we go too far in the future in the creation of the pass society, and this can already be noted today, our party will not be sympathetic, especially in the light of the very positive evolution of the corona. I think that is absolutely a consistent attitude, unless one wants to make it a simplistic one, wipe out the context and the circumstances and take advantage of them. I would very much like to take that risk, because I wanted to put that nuance and the freedom of that nuance in a debate. I decide. Mr Minister, you replied in part to the technical comments that we spoke about yesterday, for example, what is the difference in identity checks by the first four categories on the one hand and the category of the security agents on the other. A number of definitions may be unclear. We talked about this yesterday, and you have always talked about it. In that sense, it is nice to debate with you, because you answer questions, even if they are not always the answers we want. You have eliminated a number of potential misunderstandings in committee. This consideration is taken into account in the interpretation of this cooperation agreement, which is why a report is important. The cooperation agreement will come about. That's a fact. The cooperation agreement offers opportunities which we fully welcome. Flanders must not be the victim of vaccination failure in Brussels and, unfortunately, also in important parts of Wallonia. In this way, this is fundamentally assured. At the same time, we want to stress the importance that we attach to the right to go and stand freely, without constant control, something to which one is entitled in a free society. Without throwing away the baby with the bath water, we want to say that there is a little dirt in that bath water here and there that needs to be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u94	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it has been several months since the measures to combat the pandemic brought in debates relating to the fundamental freedoms of our fellow citizens. As environmentalists, committed to individual and collective freedoms, we remain mobilized and attentive to ensure that these measures remain proportionate to the health situation. Today, we are discussing the possibility of extending the Covid Safe Ticket (CST) to certain areas of daily life. This debate is part of a particular context. The pressure of the numbers of people hospitalized in intensive care needs to go further in the health measures to be taken, and we must parallel the closure of the sectors, which we must collectively prevent. As politicians, it is up to us to find ways and means of action that are proportionate and that ensure a synthesis. The CST remains a health management tool, alongside vaccination, screening and tracing. If we support the text presented today, which is the result of a discussion between all governments, we are also not overwhelmed by enthusiasm, because the heart of our political project is an extension of collective and individual rights, and we must therefore consider our appreciation with the constraints imposed by the epidemic. The CST is, in our view, a tool for achieving three objectives that we cannot oppose. Firstly, we must once again avoid restrictive measures for our individual freedoms, such as the closure of certain sectors, which would be humane and also constitute a democratic peril. We must collectively prevent the abrupt cessation of certain activities, but also allow the redeployment of certain sectors necessary for collective life, and this recovery is the wish of many actors in many sectors. Secondly, we must avoid the saturation of intensive care units and, therefore, the postponement of care. We must also preserve the health of the health care sector, which has been working tirelessly for 18 months. Allowing him, too, to take his breath is an individual as well as a collective issue. The establishment of the CST is temporary. It is a tool which, of course, limits certain freedoms but to allow other forms of freedoms, such as freedom of access to care. This is why the CST is framed by tags on its scope and duration. The list of sectors is exhaustive and the CST is not extended to include essential services such as public transport, public services, educational activities such as schools, academies, shops and shopping centres. The world of work is also not affected by the obligation of the CST and we have obtained that it is not applied for children under the age of 16 and for learning and educational spaces such as schools, colleges, universities and academies. In addition, the Cooperation Agreement recommends that the CST should not be applied for more than three months and, moreover, regular evaluation times will take place. If we find that the epidemic is quite controlled, we can also simply stop using this CST. Some actors in the sectors concerned, such as culture or sport, do not welcome the introduction of a CST, but it is not only in these sectors that anger and division are expressed. Many people with a very vulnerable digital divide no longer understand, are lost in their procedures and feel increasingly excluded. We need to hear these messages and without prejudice. But, above all, we need to have special attention to accompany these people and continue to ensure that the CST is accessible as widely as possible. Finally, I would like to conclude with three requests for which environmentalists really hope to be joined by the governments and the various components of this Parliament. First, democratic commitment. We hold to the words of the actors who reflect and strongly question the choices. We need this vital dialogue and sometimes this debate is contradictory. The introduction and application of each of the protection measures has called for a debate and, in this sense, we want to maintain and amplify the spaces for discussion, analysis and evaluation between elected officials, actors on the ground and citizens. Secondly, a health commitment, because it will be necessary to continue to work within governments on a long-term health policy, by strengthening the first line of care and access to well-being. We will constantly recall that health is a whole and that it will also be a matter of continuing to work on the socio-economic conditions that determine it. That is why we will pay particular attention to people in poverty or social exclusion. Thirdly, cultural commitment. We are and remain attentive to the impact of the installation of a CST. This must not be accompanied by new divisions or contain new inequalities. Access to education and culture for all are at the heart of our commitment. In this sense, the actors on the ground will be our first allies and we will have to work with them to put in place specific measures to ensure, also for the coming months, continued access to culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u95	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief. This obviously does not mean that the subject is to be taken lightly, far from it. It was discussed at length in committee just a few days ago. It is an important subject, a subject that touches on our issues of freedoms, rights, but also on the necessity, the need to relive for many of us and certainly for many sectors. With regard to freedoms, first of all, the opinion of the Council of State is an important opinion. It considers that the measure implemented is proportionate to the stakes pursued. It's essential. We are well in a proportionate decision. Yes, of course, we would all prefer not to have to implement this covid safe ticket. I would prefer a life without covid, without restriction to freedom, but today is the reality. If we're winning against this pandemic, the victory isn't there yet. We still need to be careful, vigilant, and we also need to ensure that we do not impose measures that would prevent sectors from operating again and that would require us to be confined again. There are much greater difficulties for each and every one of us. In this case, it is, of course, a restriction of freedom, but it is also, above all, to allow the freedom of sectors to continue to function, to other sectors to function again as early as midnight one for discotheques in particular. I think a lot of people are happy about it. I myself, as a disc jockey, look forward to it all the more as it will be done in measures that guarantee the safety of all and this is important. Another point that allows us to move forward is the concept of freedom/framework. As has been said, the measures are framed by the authorities who can take them, the context in which they can be taken, the sectors where they can be imposed. Finally, the duration of these measures is limited in time. Of course, we will have to pay attention - Mrs H annoyance mentioned it a few moments ago - to the difficulties for different sectors on the ground in implementing this covid safe ticket. It's not easy, minister. It will be necessary to be able to answer the questions, to clarify in time the use, the expectations and certainly also to pay attention to the difficult and ungrateful work which will be that of the mayors of our communes, when it comes to interpreting the texts which will be adopted in the coming days and weeks. The covid safe ticket is also a hope to strengthen the will to get vaccinated. That hope exists. It is seen in the province of Liège. In recent days, there has been a real increase in immunization registration. It is also hope with this tool that vaccination can put behind us the threat of serious consequences related to the pandemic. That is also why we support the text. Mr Minister, I would also ask you to pay attention, as I said in committee, to the digital divide, to the difficulty sometimes of being able to access information for our citizens. How can I get it? What are the procedures to follow? It's complex! We do not all have the same access to the tool for financial reasons, but also, sometimes, for skill reasons. It is therefore necessary to make access to information as simple as possible, to communicate well so that everyone knows where to find this information, but also to facilitate rapid access to the Covid Safe Ticket, since everyone can now need it on multiple occasions. In conclusion, my group will vote for this text because it is necessary, framed, limited in time and, above all, it is there to protect us all, but it is also in the name of solidarity and because we have a sense of responsibility that we will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what has been said many times in committee, but some comments and reservations are nevertheless essential. Minister, my colleague has already mentioned that the draft law and the necessary opinions were made available late. It is not the first time that this has happened, and we will continue to charge it. It shows very little respect for Parliament and parliamentary work. In this dossier, it is all the worse because you called for an extension and extension of the coronapas before the summer. This is really no way to work, but you continue to persist in anger, so we continue to press charges against your way of doing things. In committee, I read a piece from Mr Creyelman's speech. I will spare you that now, but I would like to make one essential point: 'In his intervention, my colleague states that the CST will soon become a kind of universally accepted health access ticket for café, restaurant, bar, cinema and library'. To the reference to France, where the pass has to be shown for everything, you replied that France was a bad example in this matter. We would not follow the bad example of France. However, it has come so far that this example is indeed being followed. When it rains in Paris, it does drown in Brussels. In the meantime, it will be your strategy and certification to first deny in all languages. France is a bad example that we will not follow, you said, and then leave a balloon with the message that it may not be so bad what is being done there and then finally implement the measure. You are, of course, fully supported by your lapdogs, the media. That should not be surprised, for whose bread one eats, his word is spoken. It is therefore very good that the Flemish Interest app is now available for the real news, but that aside. I come to the cooperation agreement. The original proposal stated that the CST would not be used until 1 October. This also makes sense, bearing in mind the original intention of the CST, in particular to organise mass events and travel during summer leave. As far as I'm aware, summer leave has been over for a month on 1 October. This year, too, 1 October will be on 1 October, as Mr De Roover said in committee. Why the sudden need to extend and extend the use of the access passes? What are you trying to do with that, Minister? In our view, that is a not insignificant question. Are we really still talking about health here? I'd like to sum up what we know in the meantime. First of all, we know that vaccinees can still be infected and transmit the virus. What is the point of giving the green light on the basis of a full vaccination? The same applies to the snapshot of the PCR test. Secondly, if it is really about health, why is it that people are not already focusing more on data on immunity? By the way, what's the status of our group immunity? Is there anything going on with that at all? Sciensano's statistics go until the end of May and it's almost the beginning of October. So it could be that we've already reached group immunity. How is that controlled? Blood samples are not verifiable and reliable, you explained in committee. Mrs Liekens, for the mandatory vaccination in care will be pushed through because the balloon is long overdue, I would like to point out that there is already a prevalence of 97%. So 97% of care personnel already have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. That's probably where non-vaccines are gonna be among them. Thirdly, more and more countries are abolishing the corona restrictions and are doing no worse than those countries which are maintaining such measures of freedom of movement, quite the contrary. Mr. Secretary, once again, what the hell are you trying to achieve? In our eyes, you only create a false sense of security. With this proposal you want to extend the use of the corona pass by 1 month, until 31 October. However, if we continue reading, that date is only there pro forma. After that period, the federated entities can use the health card to their own godliness and wealth in all kinds of sectors. It is not just about mass events or travels, as it was originally intended, but also about catering, sports and culture. Even mayors and governors can act as true sheriffs and demand a pass for their city or province, or for parts of it. A third exception provides that the federal government can introduce, extend and extend the health pass through the monstrosity of the pandemic law. The deadline is 31 June 2022, but exceptions are also possible. So don't tell us vesicles, Minister. Do not lie to the tired population before this is only temporary, because that temporaryity appears to be very relative. The Data Protection Authority states that the Covid Safe Ticket is applicable only if, and I quote: "the relevance, its suitability for the purpose pursued, its necessity and proportionality have been demonstrated on the basis of factual and concrete elements, such as scientific elements." I will therefore repeat the question, Minister. What scientific studies prove the usefulness and health benefits of such a pass? Couldn't there be any benefits? At last admit that you're afraid to admit it and that you're afraid to lose face. However, a minister without a electorate does not have to be afraid of it. So just admit it. According to the same GBA, the introduction of such a corona pass is indeed contrary to the fundamental rights of all citizens, not just those of the non-vaccines. There goes your 11 million-dollar team. I would also like to comment on the mass events. In the summer it was still about events with more than 5,000 participants, now it can already be introduced for events with 51 people. Minister, I can understand that as a member of a mini-party, you already find a lot of people. However, this is not a mass meeting. Our event a year ago at the Heysel, that was a mass event. However, it is difficult to call a penkermis with fifty men and the figurative horse head a mass event. You have not answered the question as to whether the corona pass will be mandatory in those sectors. The agreement already stated that it could or could not be imposed. It is mandatory for me, but you have not really clarified that. In fact one should choose the coronapas, because the alternative is the overall closure. So we should be glad that we have that pass, otherwise we will go back to a complete lockdown. Minister, I keep asking whether you really haven't learned anything from this crisis. Have you only looked at small Belgium? Is the evolution of the pandemic in Sweden, for example, not known to you? Is there anything we can learn from that? It is also not intended to make the Covid Safe Ticket mandatory at the workshop. That's lucky. Is it prohibited, however? Can an employer ask the employee for a health card? I have not yet received an answer to that question either. I also read that many examples in other European countries show that discotheques and dancing, i.e. the nightlife sector, have in recent months been the cause of widespread contagion with the corona virus COVID-19. Is the emphasis on "cause" or the possibility? My question in committee was therefore whether you could give some examples of this. You have not replied, but perhaps you can do so today. For visitors to healthcare institutions, a CST is not the appropriate means. Vaccines, who get a green screen anyway, can also carry the virus and infect people. Vaccination is therefore not a guarantee. You are also selective in applying that principle of caution. You use it, on the one hand, to gradually return to the realm of freedom. However, when, on the other hand, in committee, I advocate applying the principle of caution when deciding whether or not to vaccinate young people, that is suddenly no longer the issue. Then we don't have to be careful. You said on the committee that it is necessary to verify identity. So they show their Covid Safe Ticket, but at the same time they need to be able to identify themselves to prove that it is indeed their own Covid Safe Ticket. So, for example, you have to put your identity card or passport next to it. So it is allowed to verify identity. And, as always, one has to admit, with a small measure, drop by drop, things that one does not really want. Before anyone knows it, they'll be screwed. Before anyone knows it, they throw their name and name too gibberish. After all, the certificate does contain more than just the name. On the one hand, you claimed that there should be no division between vaccinees and non-vaccines. You added that vaccinees will eventually be allowed to do more things or other things than non-vaccines. That seems to me to be a dichotomy. The segregation, which you clearly denied in the summer recess committee, is now a fact. The pass law divides the so-called team of 11 million. Even if you claim that the conditions for the pass are easily accessible, the reality is, unfortunately, completely different. Vaccination is free. A test costs 55 euros. If you want to go to the discotheque, the opera and a sports competition as a non-vaccine in one week, you will soon lose 165 euros and you have not yet paid your tickets. It's not really low-threshold, is it? No, Minister, we really can't have a health card like that. Flemish Interest has been a hard opponent of such a control company since you took your balloon from the coronapas. We were the only ones back then. In the meantime, fortunately, colleagues are joining in on this. We would therefore like to stress it again here. Freedom-limiting measures are not normal for Flemish Interest. A QR code society is not normal and is not what we want. Fear sowing is not normal and causes segregation and discord among the population. Restricting fundamental rights isn't normal. To prove that one is healthy is not normal. We do not think that the whole mischief policy, for a year and a half, is normal at all. We will not, of course, approve this cooperation agreement which does not allow us to request a second reading and which, according to some, is a treaty, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will vote against the extension of the Covid Safe Ticket to Horeca, sport and culture. We are not in favour of the French health pass. On the one hand, the vaccine is an instrument to combat the pandemic, but the health pass risks dividing the population and excluding more people. Today, mistrust is high both against government management and against the Big Pharma, and it is justified. On the contrary, we believe it is important to create commitment and trust, to listen to fears, to rely on the first line of care. This is what we do on the ground with our medical homes for the people. In addition, patents must be lifted and the vaccine removed from the hands of the Big Pharma. Now I'm going to detail our position. We believe that the health pass will further divide the population. Vaccination is necessary, as well as an accessible screening strategy, because I would like to stress the cost of testing, which is currently high for many people. In-depth follow-up of contacts and search for sources of contamination are other ingredients for exiting the pandemic. I will explain what Marius Gilbert recently said: "Vaccination is an act of solidarity, but with a health pass, society is divided into two. Part of the population, and I am thinking in particular of young people, may be even more excluded from society. Divisions will not allow us to get out of the crisis." The GEMS expert group also sent this signal in its opinion delivered in mid-August. According to Céline Nieuwenhuys, Secretary General of the Federation of Social Services, a health pass will have long-term consequences on public confidence in government and public services. She says: "Let us make the time of the crisis to reintegrate the excluded and the most cut off from the health system. The key is human contact, exchange and conviviality." Today, the mistrust of our various governments is great; and rightly so, when we see our nine health ministers walking on their feet, when we see how we managed the crisis - among other things, in the rest homes - when we see the absurd and often contradictory measures that have been and are being imposed, when we see the many people left behind during the year and a half that has passed. Similarly, many self-employed families are still financially penalized by the crisis. If you have to go into quarantine, you lose a third of your income as an employee - for an independent, that's even more. You get a call from the call center that warns you to stay inside. It is therefore normal for many people today to hesitate to follow government directives. We see that the government is fully engaged in repressive measures, controls, fines, while, on the contrary, we need a social policy. We need a policy that supports people. Many people don't trust Big Pharma anymore. It is perfectly understandable and it is the fault of these companies. In the midst of a pandemic, the pharmaceutical industry is gaining huge profits. So people ask themselves: if the government wants so much to fight the pandemic, why does it leave the vaccine in the hands of the private sector? Why doesn't he take the vaccine out of the Big Pharma hands? It's a question that people ask themselves, with good reason. Many also have real questions about the vaccine and its side effects. A health pass will not help these people find the right answers. On the contrary, without addressing people's concerns, there is a disguised attempt to make vaccination compulsory. The government would do better to support our proposal, as well as the citizens' initiative "No benefit on the pandemic", in order to lift the patents on the vaccine against coronavirus. If we break the monopolies of multinational pharmaceutical companies, we will be able to put the vaccine under public control, in full transparency, and make it accessible to the whole world. At the legal level, there is also much to say about the project. In the area of data protection, for example, serious questions also arise. The Data Protection Authority has given a stinging opinion on the basis of the legal elements of what is being proposed to us. According to the data monitoring agency, governments have not explored the possibility of less intrusive measures. This confirms that the pass is a quick and easy solution for the government, which saves it the search for alternatives. ODA also underlines the importance of parliamentary scrutiny of the government's arguments for the introduction of the health pass. The fact that people are wary of sharing their data is understandable, when we see how Frank Robben, for example, today determines who can do what with our data, while overseeing his own decisions. In our view, the health pass does not solve fundamental problems. It is indeed illusory to want to solve with a magic wand years of neglect in care and prevention with this health pass. The bottom line is that the government is investing too little in structural prevention and access to health care for all. As Marius Gilbert says, health pass is a short-term solution, an easy solution. The government plays the map of carrots and sticks, but the fundamental problem is access to health care and information. In Brussels, vaccination rates are fairly close to the percentage of people with a doctor. Some people do not have access to awareness-raising campaigns. Flemish nationalists try to oppose Wallonia and Flanders. But the truth is that the differences between rich and poor cities within the Regions are also great. I take the example of the poor mining communes in Limburg. Vaccination coverage was lower than the overall averages in Flanders. Years of exclusion from the health system, lack of trust and underinvestment in strong preventive structures will not be overcome by a health pass. But in Genk, for example, six offices of general practitioners, including those of Medicine for the People, have taken a completely different approach. They took the hand to call unvaccinated people who have questions or doubts about the vaccine. They listened to them and answered their questions in an empathetic and accessible manner. They've created trust. As a result of these calls, a quarter of these people made an appointment for vaccination. I mean, we need other recipes than a sanitary pass. We need accessible care, participation, listening and targeted communication. To achieve this, the government must invest in a system of primary health care that is strong, close to the population and is able to engage effectively through prevention with the population. This is what Medicine for the people does every day on the ground, with our eleven medical homes in the north, south and center of the country. And that is what we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u98	Madam President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party would like to thank the services who, quite unexpectedly, had to produce a written report on this dossier in a very short time. They did a great job. Last Tuesday I mentioned a number of elements which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers to be very positive about this whole cooperation agreement. I will certainly not repeat them all here. Most of the issues have been made clear. Onward was the first to argue for the coronapas to give a greater degree of freedom to those who had taken the responsibility to vaccinate. I am glad that we can continue this way of working. I am convinced that this is the only way to promote the protection of all of us. I am also convinced that this is the only way to put the crisis behind us. Only if we can put that crisis behind us will we get rid of those passes very quickly. Let us try to maintain this method of working in solidarity. That'll be the fastest way to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously in an exceptional, totally exceptional situation in this pandemic of covid-19, with freedoms that have been reduced as the skin of grief for almost 18 months. The pandemic is not over and no one can say with certainty what will be done in the coming months. However, to pass the course of this autumn and winter, to guarantee the most normal possible life, without further confinement, to reconcile freedoms and health, we must strengthen all our lines of defence against covid-19. In this regard, the vaccine is a powerful weapon, but it is not an absolute weapon. The data we have on a global scale shows this: the winning combination is the vaccine combined with barrier gestures, ventilation and possibly the covid safe ticket (CST), to which we must of course add screening, sequencing, tracing and isolation. Mr Minister, we will support this cooperation agreement, but in our view the CST must remain an exceptional measure, which is used only wisely, where it is indispensable and justified, with a public health objective. We will support your bill, but let me insist here with you, with the parties of your majority and with the governments of the federated entities that will implement it, that various measures be guaranteed, both in the sense of effectiveness, efficiency and respect for the necessary beacons. The first step is to plead with you and your colleagues for support and support from the various sectors that will have to apply it. Because, basically, this covid safe ticket, some say, "Yes, it's very simple, it takes a minute." Yes! For me, who have already presented it several times, it takes a minute, but when it comes to thousands, hundreds, dozens of people – depending on the size and location of one's presence – we recognize that this CST represents a real burden for many sectors, for those who will have to control it. This burden is not sufficiently taken into account. This is all the more true, Minister, with the arrival of your text in the very last minute and cascading with the delays of the Brussels and Walloon governments. That didn't make it easier. We often talk about the Horeca, the event, but there is also a whole series of small community actors, small sports actors; there are also hospitals or rest homes. For them, it will be anything but simple! The second step in favour of which I would like to argue is a necessary clarification, whether by you or by the federated entities, no matter what, but it must be done. Who exactly are the visitors – this is the word used in your text – who will be submitted to the covid safe ticket? Your text cannot, of course, list each particular situation. That's right. However, there is still some confusion, some inconsistencies. Through my questions, you have sometimes found it difficult to find yourself there. It is not to the sectors – and I insist on this point – nor to those who will exercise control of having to arbitrate and interpret the law in order to know who will be subject or not, who may be subject to an exception to the CST or who will not be entitled to it! Nothing worse than a device that would lead to tensions and conflicts on the ground! It is also our responsibility not to add tension to situations that are sometimes already difficult. The third step I am advocating for is to have a clear communication and a true speech. Clear communication to ensure that sectors are properly and quickly informed. A clear communication also for the citizens - the so-called visitors in your text - who will be submitted or not, depending on their situation. Clear communication is not exactly what has shone. I give you three examples. I even hear ministers-presidents say that "the CST is stop in the mask!" This is a very bad health message, Minister. I hear colleagues say here or in committee that "the CST has a beacon, it's a maximum of three months". No! Have a speech of truth, ladies and gentlemen! The text provides that it is possible until June 2022. So it's nine months. I also hear colleagues say "attention, paper CST is important". At the same time, your government has decided on the end of the Passenger Locator Form paper format. This is reflected in the recent ministerial decree. Please be consistent and have a speech of truth! The fourth measure for this CST – I come back to this point, Minister – is the sending of reference epidemiological indicators, as an indication, to all mayors and governors in order to avoid being in situations where the covid safe ticket is used when it is not at all necessary, or, on the contrary, to avoid the covid safe ticket being used when it is indispensable in view of the epidemiological situation. Perhaps you will tell me that, in any case, an opinion of the RAG will have to be sought each time. That's right! However, as planned, this opinion is not binding. In addition, the RAG could quickly be the subject of hundreds of requests and thus be unable to deliver its opinion within five days. But it doesn't matter, since the text provides that the mayors will have the possibility, without the opinion of the RAG, to decide without any epidemiological beacons. The tag of using the CST only when it is essential seems important to me. Yes, it is sometimes necessary! But we are opposed to the use of umbrellas in the form of openings to avoid having problems at a later stage when this would not be justified on the epidemiological level. The sending of these reference epidemiological indicators to all authorities that can implement it on an initiative basis in the future could in particular help our hundreds of mayors to define when and when to apply for the CST in a timely and relevant way in terms of public health while remaining an exceptional measure without improper misappropriation of freedoms. Our model of society, which is also the model of living together that we have chosen, is everything but the choice of the model of the pass. Minister, we will vote for this text, if it clearly applies in the context of a situation that must remain exceptional, with a use that can only be justified for reasons of public health. This use can only be made in the absence of another choice, and on the basis of epidemiological indicators. We will remain extremely vigilant that this pass remains in this type of beacon. For us, these beacons guarantee a model of society that must remain a model of society without passing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u100	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, meeting me in this rostrum proves that, in the end, there is a semblance of normal life, and that is what the debate is all about right now. First of all, I would like to thank the minister. I do not do so much, but here I would like to thank him for his vigilance with regard to the current situation. This week in particular, cases of contamination tend to decline; therefore, we may tend to lower our vigilance with respect to the virus. But it must be remembered that alongside this, the nursing staff is still, more than ever, exhausted. He must care for the sick and be at the bedside of the patients. We also see that deaths are still increasing, unfortunately. Today, thanks to the decline in the whole health crisis of almost a year and a half, we know that an epidemic curve can very quickly start to rise again. In this context, our best weapon to protect us from it is, as you reminded us again this week in committee, Mr.Minister, vaccination. It is our best weapon both to avoid an upsurge in numbers and a closure of our various economic sectors. If we can indeed welcome the fact that 72.85 % of our population is now fully vaccinated – and we must thank all our fellow citizens who have made this gesture of solidarity – we must note that this remains insufficient to fully anticipate the two situations I have just mentioned, namely an upsurge in numbers and the subsequent closure of our economic sectors. Humanly, socially and economically, we absolutely cannot afford it. It is therefore in this context that the extension of this famous Covid Safe Ticket takes place. I have heard from some of my colleagues, particularly from the N-VA, that this difference is simply due to the fact that there would be a more effective vaccination policy in the north of the country than in the other two regions. However, I would like to remind them that it is perhaps much more linked to the difficulties some of our fellow citizens or some of our fellow citizens have in finding information, finding a general practitioner, especially because of their socio-economic situation or their young age, because we know that the population of the Brussels Region is younger than in Flanders. That is a fact that you cannot deny, colleagues. This Covid Safe Ticket will allow sectors to take over. I'm thinking about discotheques that can take over tomorrow. This is indeed a recovery that I am looking forward to. You know the fight of my Défi party already for more than a year to allow a safe recovery of this very important economic sector as well. But this Covid Safe Ticket will also allow other sectors to function again in full capacity, and therefore without having the rope on the neck due to the health constraints that are theirs today, such as social distancing. The aim of this Covid Safe Ticket is therefore to reconcile two objectives that have so far been too dissociated, namely freedom and health. On the other hand, Mr Minister, as I said, there are still some substantive shortcomings in this agreement. First of all, like some of my colleagues, I want to go back to the form, and in particular to the way in which this cooperation agreement has been presented to Parliament, and I should like once again to deplore it. Indeed, the period of time left for us to analyse this agreement has been almost non-existent. So, yes, it is true that we had to wait for the various opinions of the Council of State or the Data Protection Authority to amend the original version of this cooperation agreement. Nevertheless, this first version of the agreement could very well have been sent much earlier to these two bodies. Why? Because we already knew, as early as mid-July – in other words as soon as the previous cooperation agreement was adopted – that this agreement should be updated so that it could be adopted and adapted to the start of the school year. We also knew from the end of August – as soon as the Consultation Committee met again – that the Covid Safe Ticket should be extended to a range of sectors – and finally – from a risk management perspective. Therefore, Minister, the opposition found itself in a position that was really complicated to exercise its duty to control the government's actions. We felt this as a maneuver, a disrespectful situation for our parliamentary work, but also, and above all, for the sectors concerned, which were expecting a great deal from this Covid Safe Ticket and the terms and conditions surrounding it. I therefore hope, Mr Minister, that you will no longer opt for this way of doing things in the future, because the Members, whether of the majority or of the opposition, are not button presses. As far as the substance of this cooperation agreement is concerned, it must be recognised that the beacons that have been provided following the opinions of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority exist. Others have been given orally by you in committee, if not expressly in the text of this cooperation agreement. It does not prevent, as I have said, that questions remain, which will place the Regions in a situation in which they themselves will have to provide answers, particularly as regards the way in which they are implemented. As far as proportionality is concerned, much has been said about it and it is fundamental. First of all, the text does not clearly specify how the benefits of extending this Covid Safe Ticket have been balanced against the disadvantages and risks, even if my party is convinced of its usefulness. This is in any case a remark which was made by the Data Protection Authority and which, I believe, deserved more analysis or at least more explanation. It is regrettable that this balance has not been sufficiently implemented and clarified. This balance which you have finally presented orally in committee should have been reflected in the written text of this cooperation agreement, if only in order to enable our fellow citizens to fully adhere to this mechanism. Through crisis management, we have seen how crucial the public's support and understanding of the measures are in our fight against the virus. On the other hand, I can only regret the way in which the list of areas where the CST is imposed at the federal level and where it can be imposed by the federated entities has been drawn up. Of course, this choice would be based on the GEMS reports. Except that it shows that places, such as gyms where you breathe loudly and move around, are placed on the same footing as restaurants or theatres where you sit. As a result, sectors that have nothing to do with each other are treated in the same way. I find it hard to understand why this choice was made. Although an informal consultation was apparently held with the Regions to draw up this list. However, in the agreement, the lack of cooperation between the municipalities and the sectors can only be seen. You have not been able to reassure us on this point. They have been set aside in the development of measures that concern them and directly impact them. Here you had a first concrete opportunity to carry out what is contained in the Covid Special Commission's report, which repeatedly points to the absence of a unit of command. So we could foresee - and it was really a dear wish of my party, DéFI - a harmonization of the CST in the three regions. Instead, what was planned? We see that each Region will ultimately act according to its own priorities, whether they are health, economic or both, thus risking further confusion in the population. For example, I very often get the question: why should I present my CST in Brussels and not for the same type of sector and activity in other regions? There is also the risk of fuelling unhealthy and unfair competition between the Regions. That is certainly why some colleagues wanted to communitize this debate. I find that it is a total nonsense when we all know perfectly well that our fellow citizens cross linguistic boundaries every day, moving from one Region to another every day either for their work, for their leisure, or for visiting their friends or family members. Mr Minister, I therefore hope that the website specifically dedicated to this Covid Safe Ticket that you have announced in committee will allow us to take back the information on the proportionality of this measure, in order to reassure those who doubt it already or those who might doubt it in the future. Some experts, as well as ODA in his opinion, also expressed concern about the false sense of security that would result, since while being vaccinated, it is still possible to carry the virus, even though many studies have shown that this transmission is to a lesser extent than for non-vaccinated people. I regret that it is not further specified in the cooperation agreement if certain sectors will have to complete the use of this Covid Safe Ticket with respect for the actions we have acquired and with which we have learned to live throughout this crisis. I am thinking in particular of wearing the mask. However, the aspect I was most concerned about was the distinction between some of the target audiences on the Covid Safe Ticket, particularly with regard to nursing and nursing homes. You confirmed it in committee, Minister, that visitors to these institutions may have to present a Covid Safe Ticket, but not the health care providers who work there. Forgive me, but it is simply incomprehensible, as it is the caregivers who spend more time with the vulnerable public of the rest homes. To the question you were asked about this in committee, you replied that the introduction of a Covid Safe Ticket for employees would ultimately mean imposing vaccination on staff - which was still decided by the government, but which requires a legal basis that is still in the process of being developed. In any case, minister, whatever this legal basis, whether it already exists or not, we cannot speak here of a vaccination obligation through this Covid Safe Ticket when we know that this one rests, as you have recalled again, not only on vaccination but also on a healing certificate or a negative test. I hear the will to establish this famous legal basis that we all expect. But I find it difficult to understand the many reasons that are contained in the cooperation agreement to justify the distinction between visitors and employees of nursing and nursing homes. In this regard, the agreement states that employees and visitors would not find themselves in a comparable situation because the former would have to travel regularly and frequently to rest homes while the latter voluntarily come to rest homes. He also mentioned a problem of allocation of powers which the Council of State had refuted. In our view, the agreement that should have been discussed should have referred to your own position in committee, Minister, that the only reason for the distinction between employees and visitors lies in the expectation of a legal basis developed at the federal level. As regards the temporary nature of the Covid Safe Ticket, the agreement stipulates that its use must be justified by the epidemiological situation in a comprehensive manner, until 30 June 2022. In view of this long period of time, you will understand that we would have liked to have more information on the criteria on which the need to continue to use the Covid Safe Ticket would be based. I therefore regret the lack of objectivity and the absence of a barometer or, failing that, of guidelines containing certain criteria which have been used since the beginning of the pandemic. I am thinking in particular of the rate of reproduction of the virus, the rate of contamination or the number of beds occupied in intensive care. In response to our comment on this, you replied that it was not appropriate to include a whole range of indicators and thresholds. You have therefore refuted this idea of a barometer or a list when it is a fundamental text and when we know very well that the criteria for evaluating the RAG are likely to evolve according to new scientific knowledge. I continue to believe, therefore, that the inclusion in the agreement of certain non-exhaustive criteria, or in any case examples, is not compatible with the flexibility that seems to be so dear to you. It is, I think, a question of transparency and respect for this so important principle of proportionality. But it's also, and it's a fundamental issue, a question of people joining this Covid Safe Ticket. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, this Covid Safe Ticket is still a valuable tool both for our freedom and for our economic recovery, in an equally valuable and reasonable logic of risk management. We will therefore support this text, with a logic of consistency, which some parties do not seem to follow. We supported the Covid Safe Ticket at the level of the Brussels Parliament. But let us know that at the same time we will be extremely vigilant about proportionality in practice, but also about the support that must be given to those who could be penalized by this measure. I am thinking of people suffering from the digital divide, but also of small entrepreneurs who do not have the same means of control as a big festival, for example. We must all, at all levels of power, ensure that this tool meets its objectives without collateral effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank the Members who intervened here today, but also those who intervened in committee, for what I think was a genuine, good exchange of views and a good parliamentary debate, which we have all learned from. As has been pointed out, the interpretation that comes into being in a parliamentary debate is of course also important for those who will later apply this legislation. I would also like to thank the services for the work that has been done in a short time to enable this debate to take place. I will not repeat everything that has been said in committee because I want to keep it relatively concise. However, I would like to mention some of the fundamental points that I consider to be fundamental. I would like to comment on some of the punctual elements that have been mentioned here. Basically, this is a debate on freedom and solidarity, in which fundamental rights to health must be considered in relation to fundamental rights to the protection of privacy. I said in the committee debate that, as far as I am concerned, a basic principle in a democratic and just society is that citizens should have access to a maximum set of equal freedoms. In order for citizens to have access to a maximum set of equal freedoms, freedom must sometimes be organised. So there may be contexts or circumstances in which indeed the freedom of one must stop in order to allow the freedom of the other. That may be so, and that therefore requires organisation and sometimes individual limitations. In the committee debate, I referred, for example, to the right of ownership when it comes to context. That's a classic example of that. But that is not what we are talking about here today. This is an epidemiological emergency. An emergency situation where, rather than closing entire sectors, one prefers to punish everyone and deny freedom, yet wants to allow for certain freedoms, thanks to an instrument that is actually a security instrument: the Covid Safe Ticket. I would like to come back to the circumstances, because Mrs Fonck and others were talking about them again. Mrs Fonck, it must be clear that the use of the Covid Safe Ticket must be justified by the government that wishes to use it. That justification should refer to the epidemiological situation and an opinion from the RAG should be requested. You questioned that a moment ago. That advice should be requested, but it should not be followed. This is an important procedural guarantee, and so are the mayors, the provincial governors, the federated entities and the federal government. I will not convince you, and I admit that we could discuss this for a long time, but I would like to repeat that I do not think it would be wise to give examples of key indicators in legislation or even in this debate. I'd rather not do that for the stated reasons. A scientific body such as the RAG should be given the opportunity to adapt the dashboard of indicators in the light of the evolution of the epidemic and our knowledge. That is why we are simply saying that there must be an opinion from the RAG. I would also like to remind you that mayors and provincial governors can make use of the CST to a certain extent, as explained in the cooperation agreement, but that even within that specific possibility they must always coordinate with the federal or regional government. There must also be agreement from the relevant ministers before the mayors or provincial governors can take a particular initiative. That's important, isn't it? I would like to clarify something in that connection. Mrs Fonck, you were right to say that when the federated entities use the CST, they can specify certain elements. You are absolutely right about that. However, they cannot change it. The notion of visitor, for example, I shall come back to this later. In my view, as far as possible, it is well described in the design. It is conceivable for a federated entity to specify that notion, but with respect for this text, after it has been approved, and for the interpretation given to this text. It is also very clear that a federated entity can develop a policy where the CST is an opportunity for certain activities or sectors or an obligation. It's open. As Mr De Roover has said, the possibility of regional diversification and the range of opportunities that are created are for me explicitly the intention. I think we are at a stage where this is useful and even necessary. If the freedom of one person may have to restrict the freedom of one person and the use of privacy data for that purpose, then we really need to ensure that there is a proper balance between fundamental rights based on public health and fundamental rights based on the protection of privacy. I take confidence in the opinion of the Council of State, which says that we respect the proportionality required in this draft. I would like to reiterate that the opinion of the Data Protection Authority is very important to us. We have also followed that in order to amend the preliminary draft text, but it is the Council of State that decides on it. The Council of State considers proportionality to be respected in this respect. This can also be discussed, but I think that is an important starting point. Let me also repeat what has been said in committee and what has been pointed out today by Mr Rigot, Mrs Hmente and Mrs Fonck. It is essential to prevent this new instrument from creating a social divide, given the digital divide, which is, unfortunately, a reality. I repeat, therefore, that not only is a paper version of the certificate available, but also that the necessary steps have been taken to inform the public. This information is on a dedicated website, therefore via the Internet, but it allows a wide range of actors, accompanying companies, to inform those who do not use the Internet about how to receive the certificate on paper. Mrs Fonck, I think the debates on the PLF are different. We decided not to allow a paper-based PLF because it made control extremely difficult. It is therefore a matter of finding a balance. But in parallel with this decision not to use the paper-based PLF, very practical measures have been taken on the ground, as at airports, to accompany those who have difficulties in carrying out this paper-based PLF. I keep going and I come back to the issue of the social divide. I believe that Mrs H annoyance and Mr Rigot are right to say that not only should the new instrument not only strengthen a social divide but it must also be seen and admitted that the differential success of vaccination reflects a social divide. I agree. Unnecessary controversy and guilt in this area must be avoided. The difficulties of the vaccination campaign reflect a social divide. It is this same social divide that we find in a whole series of dimensions and difficulties in our health care policy. I would therefore like to repeat what you said, Mrs. H annoyance. Others said so, too. Lessons need to be learned from this epidemic regarding the organization of our health care system and the need for a well-organized and highly accessible first line of care. Care must be taken to ensure the impact of existing social divides on people's access to health care and health status. It's a huge challenge, but I think you're right. These are lessons to be learned from this experience. Mrs Rohonyi, you have repeated in a certain way in a somewhat critical way – I do not blame you – the reason why we say, in this project, that the CST cannot be requested by an employer from its employees. The CST is not an instrument that can be used by an employer. On the other hand, as far as care providers who also work in institutions are concerned, we want to introduce a legal basis that allows for a proper obligation of vaccination. As you said, we can't find this here. That's correct. Allow me to return to the notion of 'visitor'. I will read, which is not very original, which is in the text. I believe that the generic definition of a visitor is still quite clear, as well as the exclusion of certain categories. I repeat, Mrs Fonck, that I made a mistake myself in the debate. I was wrong about the example of the exhibitors. I have corrected it and it is also corrected in the report. Thank you. I was distracted. It happens. I think the generic definition is clear. "These include visitors to mass events and pilot project experiences, visitors to horeca establishments, visitors to dances and discotheques, visitors to sports and fitness centres, visitors and exhibitors to congresses and trade fairs, visitors to cultural, festive and recreational establishments or visitors to residential care facilities for vulnerable persons and persons accompanying these visitors to the establishment or during the activity." Next, the text says: "Visitors do not include the organiser, managers, staff, self-employed or volunteer or any person who proposes to receive care, participates in or is involved in the provision of care and who, from this point of view, can be identified by the management or organization of these establishments, or third element, who must have access to the facility due to a need arising from the provision of services or care and to the extent that these persons are known to the facility." I believe that the negative is again, generically, quite clearly stated. The positive is indicated. I think that's enough. It is possible - I am not saying that this is necessary - that a federated entity may decide, within this framework and respecting the interpretation given and the examples I gave during the debate in committee, to clarify this. I think, Mr President, that I have repeated the most important thing. Let me also repeat what Mrs Fonck said. She was certainly not the only one, because others have said it, but Mrs Fonck's party is not part of the majority and that is why I think it is important. Mrs Fonck said that it is an exceptional instrument in exceptional circumstances. Yes, it is. It has also rightly indicated that this design allows for the reactivation of the instrument by June of next year at the latest. We believe that we may be in exceptional circumstances for as long as possible. But we do hope that we will all soon be able to return to a life in a society where you do not need it and where, on the basis of a well-organised health care system and a well-organised prevention system, we will be able to serve and care for the whole population in a universal way, without such instruments being necessary. In the meantime, we are doing well to provide a broad legal basis here. President, this debate was important, it was on a sensitive subject. I will do my utmost to ensure that the publication is made as soon as possible. This should remove all concerns for other governments to continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u102	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u103	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2212/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2212/3) The title in French has been amended by the Commission in the form of a bill assenting to the Cooperation Agreement of 27 September 2021 amending the Cooperation Agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to the EU Digital VOCID certificate and the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employed persons and self-employed persons living or residing abroad carrying out activities in Belgium". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in - Bill approving the Cooperation Agreement of 27 September 2021 amending the Cooperation Agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Common Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to the EU Digital VOCID Certificate and the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employed persons and self-employed persons living or residing abroad carrying out activities in Belgium." The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u108	This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2058/2) This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2058/2) Number of voters 107 Number of votes Votes valables 107 Valid votes Absolute majority 54 Perfect majority All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. All naturalisations have obtained the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u109	Let us know that they have formed in their meetings today. - by message of 20 September 2021: the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region; - by message of 22 September 2021: the Assembly of the Flemish Community Commission; - by message of 23 September 2021: the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. - by message of 24 September 2021: the Assembly of the French Community Commission. - by message of 27 September 2021: the Flemish Parliament. Please inform us that they were declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. - by letter of 20 September 2021: the Brussels-Capital Parliament; - by letter dated 22 September 2021: the Council of the Flemish Community Commission; - by letter dated 23 September 2021, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. - by letter dated 24 September 2021, the Council of the French Community Commission. - by letter of 27 September 2021: the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u110	By letter of 29 September 2021, the Ecolo-Groen Group informed me of the appointment of Mr Wouter De Vriendt as group chairman from 1 October 2021. By letter dated 29 September 2021, the Ecolo-Green Group informed me of the appointment of Mr Wouter De Vriendt as chairman of the political group from the outset. 1 oktober 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u111	The Ecolo-Groen Group has sent me Mrs Eva Platteau's candidacy, replacing Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, as an effective member of Europol's Joint Parliamentary Monitoring Group. The Ecolo-Green Group has given me the candidacy of Mrs Eva Platteau to replace Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as a permanent member of the Europol Joint Parliamentary Panel. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare the candidate elected as an effective member of the Joint Parliamentary Monitoring Group of Europol. As there are no other applications, in accordance with Article 157 No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, do not vote and I declare the candidate elected as a permanent member of the Europol Joint Parliamentary Supervisory Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u112	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 September 2021, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget: - Mr Jef Van den Bergh's proposal for a law on the greening of company cars, No 653/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 September 2021, I propose to send the following legislative proposal to the Finance and Budget Committee: - the draft law of Mr Jef Van den Bergh on the greening of commercial vehicles, No. 653/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate. This bill was previously sent to the Committee on Energy, the Environment, and Climate. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u113	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when it tabled the: Bill approving the Cooperation Agreement of 27 September 2021 amending the Cooperation Agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Commission, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission concerning the processing of data relating to the EU Digital VOCID Certificate and the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employees and self-employed persons living or residing abroad carrying out activities in Belgium, No 2212/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 27 September 2021 amending the cooperation agreement of 14 July 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Joint Community Committee, the Walloon Region and the French Community Commission on the processing of data relating to the EU-COVID digital certificate, the Covid Safe Ticket, the PLF and the processing of personal data of employees or self-employed persons residing or residing abroad who carry out activities in Belgium, No. 2212/1. In view of the debate we have just had, I imagine that the urgency by unanimity is considered to be obsolete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u114	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u115	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on September 22, 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Commission of 22 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 166/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Christophe Lacroix. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 166/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christophe Lacroix. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u116	Military personnel are still not paid in time and correctly. Due to the ongoing problems with the HRM@Defence IT system that was installed last year and intended to make the payment of military betting and other performance fees simpler and clearer, military personnel have been paid late, incomplete and incorrect for months now. The calculation of betting, fees, premiums, leave and recovery days remains problematic, while military personnel are responsible for the safety of all of us and are increasingly having to row with the budgetary and infrastructure belts it has. Despite the fact that military personnel are systematically deployed in crises such as the covid crisis and the flood in July and often risk their lives in foreign operations, it remains in the cold when it comes to paying out. That causes a lot of frustration and justified anger in the military. In the meantime, late payments continue to rise and there is still no clear picture. In spite of several questions in committee on the ongoing problem, Mrs Dedonder is constantly getting carried away with the announcement that the problems will be resolved in the coming months. The answer to my interplay last week also revealed a lot of understanding, but few solutions. So that was disappointing. During the trade union consultation a few days ago, both the minister and the CHOD indicated that the optimisation of HRM@Defence could take some time. The importance of the military community and, in particular, the attractiveness of the military profession are inextricably linked to this. For the Flemish interest, the matter must finally be dealt with with more seriously and with priority. It's a shame our soldiers have to wait so much for their hard-earned money. That is why I am presenting a motion of recommendation on behalf of the Flemish Interest Group today in which we are calling for the situation to be rectified without delay. Our military deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u117	Mr Francken, you normally cannot have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u118	Madam President, I believe I can give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u119	No, only Mrs Ponthier can speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u120	Madam President, I am allowed to give an explanation of vote. By the way, that's the meeting with the clerk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u121	You have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u122	Madam President, thank you very much for giving me the floor. I fully endorse what Mrs Ponthier said. We really do have a problem with the DOD. The Department of Defense has been treated stepmotherly for years. It has had to save and turn in a lot. It's really on his gums. We have seen this with the fire in Brecht and with the floods in Wallonia. We have seen this with the Jürgen Conings case. Defence no longer has the core capacity to make the department function properly. Our Swedish government had finally re-invested and re-invested in Defence, with the purchase of the F-35s, mine-fighting vessels and new vehicles for the army. We all did. Fregates were also bought. They are being delivered gradually and of course they must also be paid off. That's how it works. The current government wants to invest in personnel. We're a year later now. We now see that no investment in staff has yet come into the house. Many promises have been made; many uncovered cheques have been signed and promised to the unions. However, nothing has yet been put into practice. We also see that wages are not even paid out. Premiums and wages are not paid. Hundreds of soldiers complain stone and bone. By the way, I certainly pay tribute to the work of Mrs Ponthier, who has rightly been suing the matter in committee for months. We are on the eve of an important budget conclave and budget weekend. I know how that goes. That goes crescendo and hopefully the government will be able to land somewhere in the course of next week or perhaps Monday or Sunday night. Maybe. In any case, I would like to call for a serious approach to the budget story for the defence sector. International commitments have been made in NATO. Let's keep our word. Let's not cut the defence budget any further. Let us be spared from defense savings. On the contrary, more is needed for defence. Everyone knows that, everyone's looking at it, but nothing's actually happening. On the eve of the crucial budget weekend, I call on all colleagues in the government to spare defence and finally to see it as a real long-term assurance of our security and freedom, our basic values in the West and in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u123	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u124	Yes 81 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u125	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 22 September 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 22 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 168/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 168/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u126	Madam President, according to good practice, every year the Supreme Court gives an overview of the complaints it has received about the functioning of the court. Last year it was 231, but according to the Supreme Court that would only be the tip of the iceberg. Several causes are at the root of the complaints, but one of the major problems remains the delay in the judicial process. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that is an old very. When I took up a mandate in the Chamber for the first time 30 years ago, it was already a problem that was regularly raised in committee. For decades, successive governments have promised to tackle this problem. The very prestigious policy statement of the current Minister of Justice promises to resolve this problem in this legislature. Colleagues, we're almost halfway there. It's important that there's an urgent need to step up. Hence this motion for a recommendation, in which we call for an immediate, thought-out and functioning overall plan to be drawn up. In doing so, the causes of the delay in justice must be addressed, so that this can lead to a definitive solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u127	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u128	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u129	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 22 September 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 22 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 169/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 169/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u130	Madam President, the opening of the judicial year will take place in September. As usual, opening sessions with Mercurials are held at the various courts of appeal. This year, it has been noticed that the top of the magistrate's agenda, following the opening of the judicial year, has been particularly difficult for politics. Demagoguery and ignorant politicians, deficits that lead to impunity and insecure legislation: they are not the words of the Flemish interest, but they are the words of the Attorney General. They've all pulled the alarm. The Attorney General of Bergen, for example, endorsed Minister Verlinden because she promised to always be a bourgeois party to violence against the police. According to the Attorney General, I think he's right. In practice, that's bullshit and shows a profound ignorance of criminal proceedings. In all likelihood, the Minister in question has already received more beautiful compliments. He also said: "The savings have put independence at risk. Forced savings combined with decades of absence of investment have brought Justice to the brink of ruin." The Attorney General of Brussels was also particularly harsh and denounced the lack of resources for dealing with financial and fiscal crime, and it should also be borne in mind that these forms of crime are becoming more complex, threatening total impunity. The Antwerp Attorney General was also very harsh. In his speech, he focused mainly on the law on the regrets, which urgently needs to be reformed. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation. I hope that Parliament will respond to the criticism I believe to be justified by the various attorney generals. They need to make a concrete overview of all the urgent needs within Justice, of course, coupled with the necessary investments in justice that urgently need to be strengthened to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u131	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u132	Yes 83 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u133	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of 21 September 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 21 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 173/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 173/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few weeks we have witnessed at least a surprising decision, a decision taken by the government under the leadership of two ministers, namely Messrs. Vandenbroucke and Dermagne, for a further six-year term, Mr. Frank Robben. It's surprising because Mr. Frank Robben is in conflict of interest. He has been the head of the Social Security Square Bank for 36 years, and today he is being renewed in a completely opaque manner, according to a decision of the ministerial cabinets, while Mr. Frank Robben is in a position in which new conflicts of interest are constantly being discovered. Moreover, this situation has even been denounced by the European Commission, which threatens to attack Belgium for non-respect of privacy. In view of all the experts who have denounced this situation for months, all the press articles and all the inquiries that have been made here in Parliament, I was a little surprised and asked these two ministers about this decision. Their answer was just as surprising as the decision. They told me that Mr. Frank Robben had had an excellent assessment and that conflicts of interest had not been considered. But how is it possible that conflicts of interest even denounced by the European Commission are not taken into account in the renewal of this mandate? It's something unacceptable! We cannot today make this kind of decision in a completely opaque way, without any transparency. That is why, Madam Chair, I have tabled a motion for a recommendation, to make a transparent selection of the person to be appointed as deputy head of the Social Security Bank, in order to allow as many candidates as possible to run and make a selection on the basis of objective and fair criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u135	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u136	Yes 76 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u137	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 22 September 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 22 September 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 174/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 174/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two deaths every month. This set the tone of the reportage of Pano of 15 September 2020. Violence against women is taking on gruesome proportions. Each year, 40,000 reports of intra-family violence are made. One hundred of them are violent crimes with a potentially fatal outcome. Official statistics don't even exist. On the website stopfeminicide people collect figures based on newspaper articles. It's not the first time I've been standing here with a motion. The implementation of the house bans and the introduction of the anti-approach bracelet were also covered, all without any significant result. To date, we are nowhere in comparison with our neighbouring countries. Dramas will continue to occur. Reports will continue to be made. It is now up to us to set up and implement several very useful instruments. Hence my motion with ten vital demands. Urgent initiatives must be taken to condemn perpetrators of deadly partner violence for life. We need to map partner violence and also look at suicide rates. The mobile stalking alarm must be rolled out all over Belgium and not just in Ghent. I'm actually wondering why all that has to take so long. The anti-approach bracelet should be implemented in current legislation. This is a tool that has already proved its purpose very well in Spain and France. A new, more efficient and targeted risk assessment tool needs to be introduced. Temporary home bans need to be implemented much more. To date this has hardly happened in certain provinces, including Flemish Brabant. The time limit for sentencing in cases of intra-family violence must be drastically reduced. Surely there can be victims who sometimes have to wait more than two years before the offender is convicted. The Family Justice Centers must finally be rolled out in all provinces. A system should be put in place to warn people that their partner has a violent past with regard to the ex-partner. That is the case in the United Kingdom and it has also been discussed extensively in the same Panoreportage. The newspaper also said that a law has been introduced to take away the right to visit children following intra-family violence. That is the case in Spain, so that these children can be raised in a safe environment. This should also be implemented here. These measures seem to be quite a laundry list, but actually that is the logic itself. The government must no longer place responsibility on the victims and take matters into its own hands. There are good examples in neighbouring countries. It's only up to us to implement them. I thank everyone for approving this motion with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u139	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u140	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u142	Yes 83 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, before moving to the last series of votes, I would like to take the floor. Today is the beginning of a new phase in the life of our Director-General of the Quaesture, Mr Morreel. As of 1 October 2021, he will partake as Director-General in the Chamber, where he has been employed since 1984. An institution as important as the House of Representatives can of course only function effectively if and only if the right decisions are made every day in terms of human resources management, investment, use of means or sustainability, with modern, well-maintained and properly isolated premises. It can only function effectively if it preserves its heritage by investing in new technologies to evolve with society and ensure the publicity of its work. Among all the people of the shadow but so essential, we can count on the Director General of the Questure Services, Mr. Eric Morreel. For those who know him, he is a man of character with an overflowing activity, always serene in the face of real difficulties and especially courageous when it comes to taking responsibility. To mention only one case, the Forum's construction site was not a long, quiet river for the Questure services. It was thanks in particular to its stubbornness that the project was carried out. The Tondo we've been borrowing on a daily basis for a few months is the highlight of his career. I would therefore like to thank him warmly for the quality of his work, his involvement at every moment and his total dedication to the benefit of our institution. I wanted to say these few words to him. I know that he will not appreciate that I have done so publicly, but I think that the men of the shadows also allow us to work calmly and in an infrastructure that makes everything available and that is at the service of our members and staff. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u144	We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [FNF01/2058/2]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u145	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u146	Yes 120 Yes No [[16]] No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [VFN02/2058/2]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u147	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u148	Yes 119 Yes No [[16]] No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u149	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u150	Yes 119 Yes No [[16]] No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u151	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u152	Yes 133 Yes No 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 133 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip126x.u153	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 October 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 7, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
