ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u1	I'm very happy to see you again. I imagine you've all taken time to rest and you're back in shape. The evidence, there are three topical debates just for you, minister. Let me remind you of a few things. In a topical and urgent debate, those who have tabled questions may speak for two minutes per question. Those who have not tabled questions, provided that no one in their group has put questions, may also add to the topical and urgent debate, either to ask questions or to reply but not both. When we look at the two topical debates "Employment Market Policy" and "Employment Conference", we can see that they are meeting together. We will have debate No. 1, then debate No. 3. Then we will move on to debate No 2 to maintain some consistency in the content. We cannot merge the two debates, because this is no longer technically possible in relation to the work of the services, but we are going to chain them up. Of course, if questions overlap between each other, you choose in which debate you will ask them and the minister will exercise flexibility in his answers. I already see a lot of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u2	Achieving an activity rate of 80% in the three regions is one of the objectives of the government agreement. We hope to be able to finance the costs of increasing ageing. Given the large differences between labour market demand and supply between the three regions, you have already indicated that you are in favour of an asymmetric policy, which, moreover, makes the government declaration possible. In the present legislature, however, we cannot yet see much from any initiative on your part, which is a pity for this important and necessary evolution. Your colleague responsible for Work in the Flemish Government, Mrs Crevits, made some interesting proposals a few weeks ago. I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. What proposals has Flemish Minister Crevits made specifically? I'd like to get some clarification. What is your response to her proposals? Which of these proposals will you make possible through a legislative amendment? If you do not share the proposals of Flemish Minister Crevits, what are your own proposals to ensure that each of the three regions can achieve the objective set out in the government statement? Will you set up a response system to reward the Regions, or punish them if they fail to achieve the objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u3	My question is based on the correct questions put by the previous speaker. In January of last year, I asked the Prime Minister about the state of play of that passage in the government agreement on the asymmetric way of exercising powers. At that time, I was given the answer that all colleagues in the federal government had received a letter from the two ministers for institutional reform, asking to look at it. I have already asked you about the state of affairs, but six months later it seems appropriate to ask me again about the state of affairs. Hence my specific questions. For which aspects of your labour market policy competences do you see the possibility of implementing that passage of the government agreement? For which aspects of your powers do you not see this possibility? How do you interpret the principles of equality and non-discrimination? Do you yourself take an initiative in order to achieve this? If so, when and in what areas? If not, why not? Finally, the initiative can of course also be based on the Länder. We have already noted the comments made by Flemish Minister Crevits. Have you been contacted about this by one or more of your state colleagues? If so, can you specify this and give your response to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I have tabled two questions on this subject. One of these questions is addressed to your fellow Minister, Mr Clarinval, as I would like to know what he wants to do within his powers to achieve or at least almost achieve the rate of effectiveness of 80%. I think that this objective is very high, because time is passing, but at federal level nothing has yet happened that can contribute to it. However, I was informed, and so I assume, that you will also reply on behalf of Minister Clarinval to the question I put to him. I have a few questions for you too. A rate of activity of 80% is indeed in the coalition agreement and we have often discussed it, but the more time it takes, the more unrealistic it seems to me that this objective is being achieved. The only measures taken at federal level in the field of labour market policy raise the threshold for young people to enter the labour market. I refer to this spring's wage agreement. There will be deployment on runways and more early retirement for older workers, which will speed up the pushing people out of the labour market, which will not help to achieve an 80% level of activity. BDVV top man Thierry Bodson says in so many words that, even if you manage to activate all the unemployed in Wallonia and Brussels, you would not even reach the 80 percent standard. Anyway, Flanders is definitely willing to put its money in the bag. Flemish Minister Crevits has made some very concrete proposals, not the least concerning an asymmetric labour market policy. For the time being, it will get zero on the bill, or it will get the sibilline answer that an asymmetric labour market policy, as registered in the federal government agreement, can be within the federal framework. My first question, Minister, is what we need to understand. What can be done? What do you think can't be done? Only then will it become really interesting. You should know that the demand from Flanders is pressing. Flanders wants to make its contribution to increasing the level of activity in this country, but it must, of course, be given the opportunity to do so. Many of the handles are at federal level, hence the pressing questions I am asking you, of which I have asked several before. Is it really your practice to increase the efficacy rate to 80 %? If yes, then the increasingly pressing question is how you want to do that. The measures that have been taken so far are achieving the opposite. What will you do to increase the level of effectiveness? How do you plan to get more people to work? Until today, you have encouraged people to stay at work for less time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u5	Asymmetric employment policy is a real challenge. We have seen in the press that the Flemish government's Minister of Employment is pushing for this kind of asymmetric policy, but what is its content? Is it about more activation of patients or getting more flexijobs, for example? You know as well as I do that the world of work has nevertheless secured its rights at the federal level and that it is at this level that labour law can be most protected. When you leave a breach open to these asymmetric policies, it is hoped that it is not to go in the direction that is asked of you by the Minister of the Flemish Government. At the same time, we know that there are different things in different regions of the country. If labour law had been applied, the effect would be very different from region to region. What is happening in Luxembourg is not the same as the situation in Namur. That is why we would like to hear from you on the issue of leaving the door open to these asymmetric policies. What would it be important to maintain at the federal level and what autonomy could be left to the Regions in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u6	This concludes the first round of questions. I think no other group has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u7	Half of my colleagues' questions about the employment conference also appear in my questions. Will the Minister answer here, will he answer in the following? Would it not be a good idea to ask all the questions about employment now, so that there will be a global answer? Otherwise, there will be two similar debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u8	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u9	It is a bit difficult to intervene in the agenda halfway through the first actua debate. That should have happened before. I understand what you're saying. I have questions in both topical and urgent debates. For example, Mrs Pas has tabled a question on asymmetric labour market policy and I have included it in my question. It would be kind of weird not to. If we throw everything together halfway through this topical debate, our speaking time will be cut in half. I didn't take that into account. I still have questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u10	It's a little complicated at this point. We proposed merging the two debates, but this is not technically possible, which is why we will work in this way. Mr. Minister will know, I think, to make the distinction between the two. If there are any repetitions, it's better to say a little more twice. Nevertheless, it is in this way that we will work today. Minister, we're listening. The line is open to you, of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u11	First of all, let me say that the 80% target for employment in 2030 is ambitious and particularly important for our prosperity. This is a joint objective of the federal government and the Länder. Each Minister of Federal, Flemish, Brussels or Walloon Government has a role to play in this. As Minister of Work, I have an important role to play, but I will not be able to achieve it alone; it is a collective responsibility. Achieving 80% is certainly ambitious, but we are not abandoning that objective. How can we reach them? Only by taking targeted measures for people with a great distance from the labour market and by addressing urgent problems in our labour market. There are several target groups too far from the labour market. This is also apparent from several reports by the High Council for Employment. It concerns older workers, which was the theme of the first annual conference this year, but also low-skilled people, people with a migration background, women and, to a lesser extent, people with disabilities. In order to improve the employment rate of these target groups, specific measures will have to be developed for them. For older workers, I will propose a concrete action plan before the end of the year. This is made up in cooperation with the social partners, and the action plan follows on from the employment conference earlier this month. There are also other pressing problems in the labour market. I am thinking of the bottleneck professions, the reintegration of long-term sick and training. The approach to this cannot wait. On all these issues, I will put proposals on the table in the coming weeks. Now that things are improving economically, we are seeing labour shortages for the bottleneck professions in different sectors, to the extent that it even poses a threat to our relance. On 10 September, therefore, I invited all the ministers of employment to a specific consultation on the problem-solving professions. Together with my colleagues, I would like to take action in the short term. As far as the long-term sick are concerned, the number of long-term sick has risen sharply in recent years to an unprecedented level. Together with my colleague, Frank Vandenbroucke, I want to improve the process of reintegration. We need to be able to guide more people to work. In addition, we must ensure that the procedure can no longer be used as a shortcut for dismissal due to medical force majeure. Finally, training is one of the keys to improving effectiveness. The world is changing fast and our careers are no longer linear. Training is needed throughout the career, life long learning. We see that there are far too few workers in training today. Moreover, access to training is very uneven. Who gets the most training today? It is in two out of three cases men who work in the middle frame or in the upper frame. Who needs training most today? They are mainly older workers, low-skilled workers and women. I therefore propose that each employee be granted an individual right of training. As regards asymmetric labour market policies, the federal government agreement provides that the federal government may exercise its powers asymmetrically according to the region concerned. I have already said that I am prepared to take this path. However, this will have to be done with respect for the division of competence in our country and the principle of equality between all entities and between all Belgian citizens, as laid down in our Constitution. My cabinet and I are in permanent contact with Flemish Minister Crevits, as well as with the Minister of Economy and Work of the Brussels-Capital Region and those of the Walloon Region, Mr Clerfayt and Mrs Morrealle. We often exchange views on the demands made by regional ministers and how to meet them. It is therefore wrong to say that these questions remain unanswered. We are discussing, for example, the possibility of adapting the federal normative framework for the monitoring of the unemployed in order to better respond to the demands of the Regions, and especially Flanders. In this context, I asked Mrs Crevits to give me concrete examples of regional policies that could not be put in place because of a federal measure or arrangement. These examples will allow me to adapt the federal framework. I have also proposed to the federal government to support the initiatives taken in the Walloon region with regard to areas without long-term unemployment. As part of the fight against shortages in certain occupations, I also launched an invitation from the Interministerial Conference "Labour Market Policy, Socio-occupational and Social Inclusion" so that the federal government and the federated entities can work hand in hand in a spirit of consultation. Employment policy has become a challenge over the various competences. That is why we need to strengthen our mutual cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u12	Minister, you rightly said in your reply that every minister has an important role to play. I therefore regret that the questions put to Minister Clarinval in this connection are now being added to this debate. Everyone has their role to play, so I would of course have preferred to have an answer from him to the questions addressed to Minister Clarinval. In addition, there is a perspective on all kinds of specific target groups. There would also be a permanent consultation, including with Minister Crevits. It may well be that some things on the other side of the language border are understood differently, but when I read the newspaper articles on Mrs Crevits' list at the beginning of September, it seems to me that she has at least a different view of the matter. Flemish Interest was satisfied that at last there is a Flemish Minister of Work who dares to speak, including with regard to the federal government. The Flemish labour market moans: there are many vacancies and few job seekers. Yet it is certainly not enough to beg at the gate of the PS. For Flemish Interest there must be exclusive regional powers, which the Regions can actually exercise. This can only benefit our labour market policy. If it is the Flemish wing of government party CD&V, it should also explicitly pursue that ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u13	I note, Minister, that you are prepared to look at the asymmetrical practice of course with respect for the division of powers. That is not surprising: it is in your coalition agreement. The opposite would be astounding. You say that you are in permanent contact with your three fellow Länder ministers. However, I have not heard any timing about when you intend to amend that federal framework. The timing I received from both Ministers of Institutional Power is that after the summer recess they would come up with a state of play on all the asymmetric measures taken by all colleagues. If I have to conclude at this stage that one of the most precarious, namely labour market policies, is not yet complete and you are still unable to indicate the direction in which the changes to the federal framework will take place, it does not reassure me very much. I hope that this dossier does not go down the road of the pension debate, the tax reforms or a number of other important issues that this government is constantly putting forward. Hopefully the delay will be limited and no delay will be delayed. If it is not only a postponement, we will have a government of nongovernmentalo instead of the current government of malgovernmentalo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. The most important merit of your answer is the fact, because it is not very trustworthy or hopeful. I have heard many fine words, things that no one can oppose, such as lifelong learning, the reintegration of long-term sick people, extra attention for people with a great distance from the labour market. More than that, in order to resolve all this, you have said that you will put proposals on the table, but that is what we have to do with it. It would have been very bad if you had said that you would not put forward any proposals, although that is what has happened so far. The question was, in fact, what proposals you will be putting forward, but you leave us in the dark about that, while our oral questions are about getting answers to that. As the economy recovers and recovers, you said in your reply that there is a shortage in certain sectors. This surprises me somewhat, as I would like to point out that this has always existed in certain sectors, even in a full-scale crisis of corona. That is why I had proposed that, on several occasions, it should be possible for the unemployed to get to work easily during temporary unemployment in sectors with effective cuts. It's taken me a long time to get some movement in there. You say that this is a collective responsibility and that there is good cooperation, but at some point, against the will of Flanders, you have removed the obligation to register in the regional employment offices for the long-term unemployed. This has made the work of the VDAB in Flanders extremely difficult, as the VDAB no longer knew who to work with on the labour market. You're shaking no, but that's exactly what happened. The Flemish Government has clearly stated that it did not want to do so, but you have remained deaf in East India. Your interpretation of collective responsibility over the past year or one and a half years is therefore not very encouraging. You did not reply specifically to the question of what you are actually going to do. That's not very trusting. It stays mainly with the adage: listen to my words, but do not look at my actions. In terms of labour market policy and its reform, we have seen your actions very quickly, because they are not there for the time being. With regard to asymmetric labour market policy, I asked you how you see it and what is possible. You have said above all what is not possible. The division of powers must be respected, you say. I have no problem with that in itself, but it is a rather negative approach to the question I have asked, since I have raised a positive question about what is possible in the context of the asymmetric labour market policy, as registered in the federal government agreement. Your answer to that question does not go to the heart of the matter either. That's what keeps you going in circles. All kinds of agendas run counter to what the Flemish government wants to do successfully. Flanders does indeed want to work on this and does everything it can, but it is all too often slowed down by a number of keys at the federal level that you do not get turned around. I don't know if you don't want to or can't do that, but the result is just as bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. I didn't expect you to present us with a complete outline of your vision of asymmetry. I hear you don't want everything to be asymmetric. I am not reassured about how you manage long-term patients to avoid dismissals for cases of force majeure, but this is another debate. You point out a certain openness about the follow-up of the unemployed. I hear you are going to ask the Minister of the Flemish Government to give you examples of how federal measures prevent certain policies from being implemented. I think we need to be proactive and if you are convinced that labour law must remain as much as possible at the federal level in order not to encourage competition between workers and weaken social security, we have enough positive examples that show how the federal government guarantees the right to work. We all have the same salary in this country, we all have to work up to a certain age, even if we are for the return to pension at 65! I only got a half-answer on your vision of asymmetry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you acknowledge that our country faces a huge challenge. Too many people are inactive but they are of a professional age. You've listed them. Short-term and older people of non-European origin remain underrepresented in the labour market. There are also far too many people who are looking for long-term incapacity for work. Increasing the level of activity is the only sustainable way to keep social security financially sound. Indeed, the coalition agreement places a strong emphasis on training and training. My party advocates applying that to employees who lose their jobs. Especially in the case of a long notice period, part of the cancellation fee should be used more quickly for example to receive training for a different career. For short-term skilled people it will be necessary to allow greater flexibility. At the moment our country misses the boat of e-commerce that took off during the corona crisis. We propose that night work in this sector should not start until midnight instead of 8 p.m. At the same time, we need a tax favor scheme so that the staff get an evening bonus. We also propose part-time work. Now it is not possible for less than three hours a day or a third of a full working week. This restriction reduces the entry of young people into the labour market, especially in the case of young people with short-term qualifications. We must dare to question this. The same applies to the fixed timetables. That flexibility really needs to be built in. We also advocate that we should be able to work without, for example, losing a sickness benefit. This should be made easier. Long-term unemployed need to receive much faster guidance from the OMCW. Finally, with regard to the long-term sick, who have a large share of the inactive, we learned from the hearing in this committee that attention should be paid from the outset to the possible re-action of a sick worker in the workplace. Now, too often, we allow this to go too far and the obstacles to reintegration are piling up. We propose a more efficient and faster follow-up and reintegration of long-term patients through a multidisciplinary approach. That is a number of things with regard to the reforms needed in labour market policy on which I wanted to make our point of view clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u17	In our next conversation, I will return to a number of issues. The employment conference also raised the question of asymmetric policy by Mr Clerfayt and German-speaking colleague Weykmans, but also by the Walloon Region. It is the specific challenges of our labour market today. The German-speaking colleague pointed to the great competition with the German, Dutch and Luxembourg labour markets. There is also a very diffuse image in Wallonia. There are regions with very high labour demand, while other regions suffer from high youth unemployment. The differences and challenges in our labour market and the demand for specific tools to solve this, live not only with Flanders, but with many colleagues. Hopefully, you'll work on that. You have announced an individual right of training. The regions are also working on this. I immediately saw the reaction of an employers' organization which found it obsolete for five days. Low-skilled people are doing much worse in training than middle managers and high-skilled people. We want that individual right to give those low-skilled more training, because that is where the problem lies. Last week I was in a construction company in West Flanders that is looking for seventy people and has found barely ten people since the beginning of this year. This is about operators, people to operate machines, people who are formed on the workplace and who also need training. If employers do not want to do this individually, because it is out of date, that is a wrong discussion. I hope you'll continue with that. That's what the coalition agreement says. We can then build on that five-day minimum training right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u18	Minister, thank you for the information you provide. Indeed, 80% are very ambitious. I support you and congratulate you. For Ecolo-Groen, the ambitious employment rate discussed here will not be achieved with measures that exclude, but rather with measures that more generally improve the lives of workers, the quality of employment and the labour market. I have heard you speak of training, of jobs in short supply (subjects on which we will come back in the next debate), of the quality of employment. I would stress that there is a great disparity in this employment rate: depending on whether you are a man or a woman, depending on your age and location. It is obvious that it makes sense to target certain policies, which certainly does not mean detriculating labour law. We agree. But targeting is, for example (you mentioned it, why I bounced on it) the measure of the territory "zero long-term unemployed". There could be such initiatives in Wallonia, not on the whole of the Walloon Region, but it is many initiatives in a specific territory and objective, for people in a voluntary dynamic who obtain a CDI. We are therefore also talking about the quality of employment and profitable jobs. It's profitable because it costs less: but it's cheaper for the federal government, and it costs the Regions. You are fully aware of that. I can only invite you to dialogue with your Walloon counterpart and to move forward on a cooperation agreement to get what is announced in the government agreement so that we can move forward on the "zero long-term unemployed" territories.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You outlined a whole spectrum of measures. They're needed, too. Come on, that's a positive approach. For us, this ambitious employment objective is primarily about taking all the talents with it and letting it shine. Indeed, it is important for all those you have listed that they can still make their contribution to society, because that strengthens self-confidence. As far as the labour market is concerned, we see a link with quality work, where there is sufficient appreciation for workers. I found the stories of Plopsa employees of last summer hallucinating. They have to work for an apple and an egg, they have to be flexible and they are sometimes asked to work late, so they miss their bus home and, as they get the order to "walk their plan," they have to pay the taxi ride home of that lousy pay. So there are certainly improvements possible. Some colleagues note that the Flemish labour market is moaning. I can't help but replicate that the Flemish employee is moaning. I refer to the new study of the Innovation and Labour Foundation. This concludes that working conditions, and certainly the workload, have deteriorated over the period under investigation, compared to the previous investigation period, while the previous Flemish Government has just deleted EUR 100 million of measures to address this workload. There's no point in shooting at each other. Everyone must move forward in their area of competence towards quality work, which is well rewarded, allows a good work-life balance and is not too burdensome, so that one can still get happiness out of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u20	Madam President, I would like to clarify two more points after Mr Anseuw's replies. Firstly, the data of the temporary unemployed were passed on to the VDAB during the corona crisis. Secondly, it was possible for people who were temporarily unemployed to work in other sectors. So, what you say, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u21	Minister, I didn't mean to let you speak. You were ready? Okay, fine. It took a very long time for those temporary unemployed to get the chance. It could have been much faster. That is exactly what I said in my first reply. As far as data is concerned, they had to be transmitted eventually. The system that worked well, namely the obligation to register after a certain period of temporary unemployment, has been abolished in the corona crisis. You didn't have to do that anymore. You have indeed made it more difficult for the VDAB there for several months than was actually necessary, while at that time it was particularly important to make work of activation and to keep people active who could not or could not work in certain sectors because of the corona restrictions. That goes without saying. So you have made it unnecessarily difficult, among other things, the VDAB. That's exactly my charge. You say that we must work together and call it a collective responsibility, but I have seen very little of that spirit of cooperation in your actions. It is not about me, Mrs Vanrobaeys, that we are shooting here, but I think it is important that we should be able to ask questions to the Federal Minister responsible for Work and many keys that also have an impact on what the Regions can do in terms of labour market policy. Of course, Mrs Vanrobaeys, we must also be aware of a high workload. However, this is not an argument not to focus on more activation. One has no flute to do with the other. If we succeed in getting more people to work, then perhaps those burdens could be better distributed. Of course, I fully agree that workable work is extremely important, but that is not an argument for perhaps doing a little less. The debate is about increasing the level of effectiveness. I don't think one has anything to do with the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u22	We do not overestimate the concept of topical and urgent debate, but, Mrs Vanrobaeys, since you have been directly questioned, you have the floor if you wish to reply. Then we will conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u23	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, I have made it clear that this is a mix of measures. However, I always hear the story and the string of 'activate, activate, activate'. Of course you can. My message, however, is that when you activate, quality work must also be opposed to it, which is well-paid and does not involve any workload that makes people sick. That is the case at the moment. The Foundation for Innovation and Labour has again published a study on this subject, which states that the situation has deteriorated. This is a competence of the Flemish Government, which must therefore also take account of such measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u24	The debate can be closed here. We shall now turn to the second topical and urgent debate on the Employment Conference. Mrs Cornet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u25	Minister, on September 7 and 8, the Career Employment Conference was held. Experts, ministers and the social partners were invited to share their views and to dialogue. The interventions of each other were necessarily contrasted. The conclusions of the working groups highlighted the points of convergence and divergence. On the other hand, interventions often exceeded the theme of career ends alone, as there were clear links with job quality throughout the career, with musculoskeletal disorders, with reduced working time, etc. I recall these few elements, the first of which is the essential dimension of prevention, which must prompt us to reflect even more on this dimension of the work that can be done. A second element concerns working conditions, but not only at the end of the career but throughout the career. I have a question about the absences of young people mentioned in a study which we will discuss later in this committee and which is really questioning. I also recognize the importance of dialogue and the importance of the social partners, as well as two points of attention which I would like to highlight. This is the gender dimension that you also mentioned. I would like to hear you more specifically about this. This is also the sense of work, given that we are in a context where incapacity for work has greatly increased. In the face of this very broad programme and the rich interventions, I wonder what follow-up you will give to these exchanges. Minister, what are your findings about career ends after hearing the different points of view? What conclusions do you draw from this conference? What are the elements you intend to keep for the continuation of your work also on employment in a wider way? Finally, what follow-up do you reserve to these exchanges? You mentioned an action plan. How will you work with the social partners and on what planning? When will we have an opportunity to discuss this in Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u26	Mr Minister, I followed with great interest the employment conference on the end of life on 7 and 8 September. Several parties have been addressed. The content went beyond merely the end-of-life course. I have a number of specific questions for you with regard to that employment conference. What are the conclusions you draw? An action plan would follow. What is the content of that plan and within what time limit do you see it? You have also announced individual training rights. I think this is very important, too. Could you give us some more details on the specific plans in this respect? I would also like to stress the quality of work. As you know, we have set a number of priorities for this. I would like to ask you about the state of play with regard to day-to-day contracts. After all, if people have to wait for news every day for the next day for 15 years, that is not really the 'harmonious career' that was discussed at that conference. You have once again asked for the opinion of the social partners. Can you give us a concrete state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u27	Madam President, I come back to my second question and I refer again to Mr Crevits who said at the conference: 'I had hoped that this would be more of an interfederal conference, but I have to say that this has become more and more a federal conference'. She also said she hopes for your support to move forward. Here's what I want to say. It is said here that the Flemish Government is responsible for the workload, the bottlenecks and the tight labour market. But it's not a we-she story. Until 2024 we are all partly competent in this field, it is important to work together so that we can take specific steps forward for the different labour markets that our country knows. Play each other the blackbird, has few results. I, like my colleague, have followed the two days. It is not intended to go over the different themes here. We will certainly come back to that, but I want to know what else will happen. You announced an IMC on the bottleneck professions. You raised the whole issue of the activation of inactive people, and in particular the activation of long-term sick people, with Minister Vandenbroucke. Later in the autumn, you would return to that with him. We know that there are still a lot of thresholds in this area. Think of people with disabilities, who are very often only allowed to earn a certain percentage today, or to be punished differently, and lose their integration and other allowances. We know those stories. You were supposed to come up with plans for that. You would also go to the government with a global action plan on employment. You would also ask the social partners to make additional proposals in the context of the end-of-life course. When are they gonna come up with proposals? What's the timing? Where are we today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u28	Mr Minister, I too, like several colleagues, have followed the Employment Conference with a great deal of attention. I found it particularly interesting and interesting to note that, unfortunately, there was little consensus. There was a consensus among many partners on one point, but that is where you seem to have lost the role. A lot of the partners sitting around the table pointed out nicely, and others rather less finely, that the harmonious career, which was the theme of the Employment Conference, would be a missed opportunity to look only at the end of the journey today, while many facets in the beginning and middle of the career are at least as important, especially when it comes to getting more people to work and keep more people to work. In that respect, it was a bit of a blow in the water. There are a lot of open questions and loose ends left. Where are we going? You yourself asked the partners during the conference to focus on the medium and long term, but that is of course kicking the can down the road. We have to be realistic. If we're gonna increase the effectiveness rate, we're gonna have to do some business in the short term. We've already talked about that. In the context of an Employment Conference, this very one-sided approach, which you too have sought, is strange. It's a missed opportunity. With regard to this concern, certainly from Flanders but also from the other regions, in relation to this asymmetric labour market policy, I learned from your answer to my previous question about what it is not, but it remains dark to me what you think it might be. Let me give you another chance to give you a clear answer. Especially after the employment conference, the question is: what happens now? All the partners have spoken. What are the next steps you will take? Are there any concrete actions coming soon? Will you continue to focus on this end-of-life career or will you also take into account what many partners have said around the table during those two days, and expand your perspective and also develop measures to address the problems that are emerging today in the labour market at the beginning and in the course of the career. Mrs Muyle is right in saying that black people won't help here. But I note that not all members of the majority are aware of the conviction that it is indeed a collective responsibility that we must be able to accept together with all partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u29	Thank you, Minister. A lot has already been said. There was indeed an employment conference around the harmonious end of the road. Fortunately, in that conference, it was also about workable work. If you'll allow me, I'd still like to respond to Mr Anseuw. You have literally said that an ordinary workload has nothing to do with more people at work. I suggest you think about that. Older workers getting sick because of the high workload, in a burn-out sucker. At the moment there are half more long-term sick than there are unemployed. If you say that one thing has nothing to do with another, I think it is absurd. This does not add to this problem. I am very glad that it is also about workable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u30	I want to make this right, very briefly. If Mrs Willaert puts words in my mouth that I have not spoken, I will not accept them and I want to correct them. I said that the debate on the high workload is no reason not to have the debate on more employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u31	You'll have the floor later. Mr Anseew, it is not you who decide who has the floor here! It's not you! Mrs. Willaert will finish her inquiry, and I'll give you some time to reply later. When you question another colleague, I give you the floor, but you are not the one who distributes the floor. Mevrouw Willaert, you finish your speech, after which the minister will answer, and Mr.Anseeuw will then have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u32	Thank you, Madam President, for bringing this way of working to the attention of the House. It's necessary to do that. I would like to highlight a number of elements that have not yet been mentioned. There was a question at the employment conference about the action plan that you will be working on. The Equal Opportunities Council asked for sufficient attention to be paid to the gender impact through the impact analysis and gender mainstreaming law of 2007. That is something I would like to highlight because it is very important for us in this debate to make this distinction. There is also the Minerva think tank that asks for better rehabilitation of unpaid labour and care. I would like to highlight those elements, in addition to the questions of my colleagues. I would like your first assessment of what the action plan will have to offer in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u33	Minister, the first employment conference took place on 7 and 8 September, where the various stakeholders and the representatives of the Länder gave their views on career policy, with a focus on the end of the career. Many views were shared and conclusions were finally reached in thematic working groups. On Wednesday a debate was also held with the various social partners. The government agreement stipulates that the annual employment conference should lead to the elaboration and evaluation of concrete action plans, with the aim, inter alia, of reducing the rate of inactivity. I have the following questions about the employment conference, Minister. How do you evaluate the first employment conference? What lessons do you draw from the next conference in terms of preparation, methodology and cooperation with the Länder and stakeholders? In which areas do you provide concrete action plans to increase, inter alia, the level of activity and the level of effectiveness? That was also mentioned in the previous debate, so I assume you can give some clarification on that. What is the timing within which the action plans can be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u34	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this lively debate, which is apparently not over since some of the replies are still awaited. First of all, I would like once again to welcome the high-quality interventions and exchanges that took place during these two days of conferences, not only online, but also in the framework of the work carried out in the shadows of the various technical groups. I think that, in the opinion of all the participants and of the chairmen and chairmen, this work was really a substantive work that allowed us to make and share a whole series of observations and, in a second step, to suggest various proposals. After all these rich debates, now is the time for analysis. It has, of course, already begun and, among the first observations that emerge, four seem to me to be of paramount importance and have indeed received some unanimity, contrary to what Mr Anseeuw said earlier. Although not all points were the subject of consensus, some of them allowed for some unanimity. First, older workers must be able to slow down the pace and blow, especially those in the most difficult and heavy occupations. Secondly, older workers must follow developments in their sector, which requires increased training throughout their careers, with particular attention – as the representatives of Unizo and UCM have repeated – to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thirdly, a policy of prevention in companies from the beginning of their careers is essential for sustainable working conditions. Finally, and it is fundamental, older workers are essential to guide young people and share their expertise. In this sense, it is up to us to step up mentoring or "Tandem Plan" initiatives. These various observations and exchanges deserve, as I said, a more in-depth analysis, and I therefore intend to table an action plan by the end of the year. For this plan I see different lines of action. Firstly, end-of-life careers can only be addressed if the whole career is examined and, even wider, the entire life-cycle of the employee, so that a young worker has an immediate view of the whole career. Secondly, specific attention will be given to the gender dimension, given the need to achieve a better balance between private and professional life, with greater participation of men in care and family tasks. This can only benefit women's careers. Thirdly, future challenges will also be taken into account. Today's young workers are tomorrow's older workers. These include teleworking, digitisation and new forms of work. Finally, there will be specific work on combating discrimination. For an employee it is not self-evident to stay at work once he is over 50 years old and especially not when he is looking for a new job. It will therefore be necessary to promote the evolution of minds on the value of older workers. Now I come to the questions about the bottleneck professions. As I said at the conference, having chosen the theme of harmonious career ends implies, as I have just said, looking at the entire career from the beginning to the end. This does not prevent us from having to work on short-term issues, and it even calls for action. I referred to it in response to the first topical and urgent debate. For me, the two tasks are absolutely not contradictory, but on the contrary. These are work that must be carried out in parallel, as well as reflections to be carried out. One aspect more reflects the medium and long term and the others are linked to the very short term. This is the case for jobs in shortage or tension, knelpuntberoepen. The discussions between the Ministers for Employment show that the problems in the three regions are largely the same and, moreover, the situation is more or less the same in our neighbouring countries. This indicates that the problem is not primarily regional in nature. It has more to do with the skills available, the expectations of employers and job seekers and perhaps also the working conditions in certain professions. Interregional mobility should therefore be encouraged. This is primarily a competence of the employment services of the Regions and Communities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Following consultations between the Ministers for Employment, concrete measures will be developed, both at regional and federal level. As has already been said, the regions already have a great deal of potential to pursue a specific policy in this area. The aim is to be able to propose measures at the federal level as early as the beginning of October. We aim to align the measures as much as possible with regional measures to strengthen each other's policies. At present, the measures cannot be discussed in detail, given the ongoing consultations. You can count on the involvement of the social partners. Their opinion will be requested on the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u35	Before proceeding to the reply, Mr. Anseew, I understand that you wish to respond to Mrs. Willaert, who had quoted you. Let's do this in 30 seconds if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u36	Certainly, because Mrs Willaert did not hear me correctly or did not want to hear properly. I didn't say the high workload had nothing to do with more people working. I have even literally said that getting more people working might be a lever towards more workable work. I also mentioned this because I felt it was right in the debate on the level of effectiveness that it was not possible for the debate to take place on working work to be an excuse not to continue working on a higher level of effectiveness. That is quite different from the quote Mrs Willaert has been trying to put in my mouth. I think it is important to put this right, because it is not at all right with what I have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am referring to the first essential element, namely the action plan that you will communicate to us by the end of 2021. It will have four axes: The first axis is to work for the entire career and life. I assume that you will make the connection with the law on well-being at work and the points of attention that were highlighted at the time of the assessment of this law by the unions. A second focus is on the gender dimension. Perhaps in the coming weeks we will return to the way in which you will work with your colleague, Sarah Schlitz, on the attention to be given to this gender dimension in employment. A third focus is on future challenges. As far as the telework dimension is concerned, you will have read, like me, this excellent analysis of the telework and gender SPFs and the recommendations they have made. Of course, I invite you to hear what the field says about how women have lived or are living telework. You yourself mentioned the distribution of charges. In any case, there are a number of important issues to consider. Finally, as far as the value of older workers is concerned, I should like to stress that the Tandem Plan is a very dear idea for the Ecolo-Groen Group and that I can only invite you to develop it. We will certainly have the opportunity to return in the coming weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome the fact that there may have been a more in-depth discussion in the working groups and that progress has been made. Four priorities were put forward. Of course, they're important. I can clearly hear you say that the end-of-life discussion must be considered over the whole career or even over the entire life cycle. In this sense, I would like to emphasise the importance of tackling abuse of day-to-day contracts in this context. That must be terrible and stressful. People do not dare to report ill in these situations or are put under very strong pressure and do not dare to report certain things. If you do that for 15 or 20 years, it's gonna be hard to last longer. There is, of course, also telework and the gender dimension in it. As you know, I have tabled a resolution on this matter. In particular, I understand that there was a broad consensus on the need for older workers to be able to breathe back. My comment just now that one thing is connected with another is therefore also a question of workable work, of workload and of things to be dealt with well. These are important points that will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u39	Thank you, Minister. Your reply and the follow-up to the conference will give rise to many debates in the coming weeks. So we will certainly come back to that in committee. You've made your line known. I am very pleased that you have raised interregional mobility. This was also highlighted in the conference as the challenge. When I take the café test, it is always very difficult for me to explain in my region why there are more people from northern France today than from Hainaut, which is barely ten to 15 kilometres away. This obviously has to do with labour mobility, with training and finding the right profiles, with the powers of the Regions. However, it also has to do with taxation, with the way wages are taxed, with the fall in unemployment, with the amount of people's net left so that it becomes attractive to work. I think that a global approach is needed. That is why what we are discussing here is extremely complex. That really requires an interfederal approach and consultation. I hope that you will take up the challenges and debate with everyone in the coming weeks. To say it in the style of the League Without Name: only together will we get there. So the debate is being continued and I look forward to your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u40	Mrs Muylle, there is little wrong with Bond without Name, I think they are more inspiring than average. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have highlighted a number of key issues relating to gender, telework, digitalisation and combating age-based discrimination. Actually, there is little news under the sun in that regard. I am very curious about the actions that will link you to this. After all, I understand that there will be an action plan by the end of this year at the latest. Furthermore, I understand that actions will be proposed in about ten days' time, because you were talking about early October and it is already 21 September. I regret, however, that no hint of the veil can yet be lifted if Parliament asks questions about it. After all, I assume that the broad lines will be established by now and that you will not have to clear everything up from the start with the different partners in the next week. I'm very curious about this. I will conclude with a positive note because I am very pleased that you have also learned something from the employment conference, namely that it is important to examine the whole career, not just the end of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u41	Madam President, I should like to begin by saying that it is sometimes difficult to work in this committee. Minister, as far as jobs are concerned, you have spoken on many occasions of incentives. In this regard, I would like to say a number of things. On the one hand, the economy is recovering strongly. In this context, employers say they are looking for staff and not finding them. On the other hand, on the ground, there are spontaneous strikes because of too much pressure at work; I am thinking of strikes last week at Texaco and Ikea. In a so-called "free" market one could imagine a correction in favour of workers with higher wages, fixed contracts, open-ended contracts instead of fixed-term contracts or temporary contracts, full-time jobs instead of part-time jobs and better working conditions. But we are not in a free market! And the government takes a stand. Instead, he chose the camp of the big bosses. Of course, I'm not talking about the little independents. There is the problem of wage freezes with the maximum increase of 0.4%, the question of greater flexibility with the extension of overtime, the obligation to work up to 67 years, etc. Minister, you are making the situation worse! For us, there is not a shortage of labour but a shortage of decent, well-paid jobs. With regard to career ends, you want to adapt all careers. I can't help but think of my friend from Liège Rosa, who worked 7 years in sales, 15 years on a production line and 10 years in service. She's 56 years old. She doesn't know how to work "only" 17 hours a week because she's exhausted. Working up to 67 means 11 more years of hard work for her. Taking into account Ms. Lalieux's pension reform project, at 62 she will not have a career of 42 years. Many women in that country were in the same situation. In order to address the issue of career development, all these women and men in the field will have to be given the floor in order to avoid discussion of figures by excluding human beings. Our party will work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u42	You are a minister who considers cooperation federalism to be very important. You said that there are more things that are similar to those that are different in the field of bottleneck professions, but in the case of things that are different, you explain what is necessary, with that guarantee of respect for labour law and sufficiently high social protection guaranteed by the federal level. There's a lot of potential in that. We must look forward to the implementation of the action plan. Possibly there's a tilt point. There must be no light passage here. The puncture may be a threat to the relance. At the same time, this can also be an opportunity for workers to demand more, for employers to become more attractive. A study by HR company Manpower shows that half of the companies surveyed want to hire more people and they also know what it takes. They want to focus on more training, on more flexible hours to combine home and work better, on more home work and possibly also on higher wages. The way in which that happens is, of course, a completely different debate that I will not start here now. However, there is a great opportunity to create a more attractive working environment. We must stand alongside the employers, together with the social partners. The workable work and the attractive working environment are crucial to allow more mobility, to keep more people longer at work in attractive conditions. For people who are far from the labour market, we must make a strong commitment to guidance. We need the Länder very much for that. They must all take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u43	It is quite clear that an ambitious plan is needed to increase the level of activity. It is indeed a good thing that you say that it should be about the full career and not just about the end of the career. I join Mrs Muylle in saying that this is a work that will require a lot of consultation with different partners. This is also a work for all states, along with the federal government. I am, of course, looking forward to the plans that you will be presenting. We call for greater flexibility to ensure that many more people get back to work and continue to work. Prevention policy is an important element in this. We're trying to keep people from falling out too soon. They must be given the necessary guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u44	Of course, the employment conference was announced for a year in the coalition agreement. In the meantime, that conference has taken place. But I think the mountain has given birth to a mouse, especially with the focus on the end run. At the same time, our colleague Franck Vandenbroucke also announced that he would appoint no less than sixty return coaches to work long-term sick people. Of course, it will help, no doubt, but it will not bring about the great turnaround that is desirable. Boosting the level of effectiveness, more flexible end-of-life schemes, providing an individual right to training, better prevention services, new forms of work, pathways in which older workers coach younger workers: many fine words that I fully support. Some also clearly overlap the powers of the regions. However, the regions also want to be able to work more specifically, which was also partly the subject of the previous debate. Every citizen of our country is the same, but we cannot ignore the fact that there are clear differences between the north and the south of our country in terms of the labour market. The necessary solutions are also clearly different. Nor is there any problem in finally giving these levers to the regions. We are therefore looking forward to the action plan you are announcing for the labour market, which you promised before the end of the year. We sincerely hope that this debate will not be reduced to just a little mess in the margins.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u45	Madam President, this concerns the Corona temporary unemployment scheme which ends on 30 September. This was very important. It is not prolonged and this has important consequences for workers: the loss of the 70% allowance and the daily supplement. If the measure is not extended, a number of workers may be fired because of the economic problems associated with the crisis we have just experienced. Last Friday, the National Labour Council (CNT) recommended that it be extended as well as that periods of temporary unemployment be assimilated to the calculation of holiday pay. What are you going to do about this, especially since the last time we discussed it, you said that the social partners had not made a request in this respect? The application being present, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u46	Minister, I have a specific question about one of the corona aid measures. The school year started again, and last week in Flanders there was a lot of fuss about the rather strict quarantine measures. Once two children are infected in a classroom, the whole class should be quarantined for a long time. There were already 5,000 Flemish students at home. You can already hear me, my question is about the right to temporary unemployment for workers if they have to provide for a child who cannot go to a daycare centre, school or a centre for the reception of people with disabilities because of the corona measures. This aid would also expire on 30 September, when we see that there is still a problem in this area. That's not about all the kids. For example, it is not about children in high school, but in some cases it is an important opportunity to take care of those children. I understand that the discussions to adapt this are still in progress in Flanders, and that they have not yet landed, but also when the rules are relaxing, there will always be children who have to quarantine because of high risk contact. My question is simple. Are you putting the extension of the measure on the table, with the same modalities, or not? Are you suggesting a different solution? I believe that we should continue to put forward a solution for the parents who are faced with this incredibly annoying situation and who often have to move very quickly to find a solution for the care of their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u47	Minister, in June I asked what you would do for Q3. At the time, I had advocated going back to normal, or at least working out a transitional arrangement for that. That question is still strong, even with my party, as far as Q4 is concerned. I fully understand that there may still be specific cases for which it is important to continue certain measures relating to temporary unemployment. But the generalisation we are now aware of is no longer in Q4 given the debate we have just had on the challenges of our labour market, and apart from the bill of a few hundred million. I would like to hear what you will do about temporary unemployment because of corona? Do you choose a transitional arrangement? How do you see the cut-off for Q4?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u48	Minister, since the start of the corona crisis, the federal government has come up with a whole series of corona support measures. Most of these aid measures normally expire at the end of September. Many of the corona support measures have proved their worth and service. For example, temporary unemployment has at a certain point indeed ensured that within many companies whose turnover fell, the accumulated know-how did not immediately flow out of the organisation by not avoiding redundancies. At the same time, temporary unemployment has also allowed the purchasing power of many people to remain at an acceptable level. Of course, that is not without importance. The situation has, of course, already changed somewhat. In the first quarter of 2021, sales in our country already increased above the level of two years ago, i.e. before the crisis. In the meantime, the level of pre-crisis exports has already been exceeded and more and more new companies are joining. The European economy is expected to be larger by the end of 2021 than before the corona crisis. This means that the recovery of the economy, not only in Belgium, but also within and outside Europe, will take place more quickly than previously foreseen. However, you indicated that you would like to extend the flexible conditions for temporary unemployment until the end of the year, while there are good reasons for questioning them aloud, given the faster than expected recovery of our economy. There is still uncertainty about a number of other measures, which is why I am asking you. If you really intend to extend the corona support measures until the end of 2021, what about their affordability? This is not insignificant and it must be weighed against the usefulness of the measures. At some point they were extremely useful and then it was good to invest in them. Now I hear from the government, not least from the Secretary of State for the Budget, that we need to work on the budget deficit and so we must dare to question the extension of the corona aid measures, which have now become less useful. Does the extension of the corona support measures not conflict with the philosophy of giving our economy oxygen again and giving it a chance to revive? Can you clarify whether or not to extend the corona aid measures? Are they being extended and, if so, what measures are being extended and why, because the question is how long we want the crisis to last?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u49	The government had given parents the opportunity to benefit from temporary unemployment if the children were forced to stay at home because of covid-19. Today, we see that there is still a rise in contamination. So we still have to deal with this problem. Crèches which have many places or reception centres close again while the measure which had been taken ends on 30 September. Are you going to offer parents who need to look after their children another alternative? If so, will this measure be extended after September 30?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u50	I would like to add myself to the questions that have been asked today. I think we're really at a turning point. As we all know, Minister, we are in a sort of recovery, but at the same time the state of affairs is still a little bit fibrile. I wanted to talk to you about a specific sector. You know how much I care about bringing his claims. More recently, cultural and artistic federations were concerned about their fate. They have been told, for months, that they have been supported, that we are careful that these great sanctions of the crisis do not see the end of the aid measures and co-empt measures sign a stop point for many workers who are already in the artistic and creative difficulties that we know. They have been in great difficulty, even if it is not necessary to oppose the sectors, because many others have obviously been in great difficulty, but this one in particular. It is also known that Codeco announcements do not facilitate recovery or recovery. It is known that cultural projects will sometimes be more cautious. We know he's going to create a traffic jam in the recovery. Particularly for this sector, recovery is likely to be complex. My question is very simple. We have divided the questions with my colleague, you will have perceived it. Whether it is measures for parents and children, or measures for these workers, what are you planning, Minister, and what are you waiting for from the discussions that could be underway so that we can tell ourselves that the last quarter will be serene for all workers as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u51	I give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u52	I'm disciplined, I was waiting for you to give it to me. I would like to thank everyone for the various questions that bear witness to the importance of the subject. As you know, since the beginning of the health crisis, these support measures taken by the federal government and by the Regions and the Communities have helped to support our economy and to preserve the purchasing power and liquidity of companies, and above all to save thousands or even hundreds of thousands of jobs. This was a major objective. This policy of support has therefore borne fruit, and I am delighted with it. Indeed, when we look at the economic budget forecasts that have just been published by the Planning Office, we see that our economy is expected to grow by 5.7% in 2021 and 3% in 2022, with this year, of course, a catch-up effect of economic activity that has been caught up during the various periods of lockdown or activity restrictions. Economic activity would return to pre-crisis levels in the fourth quarter of this year. Domestic employment would increase by 73,000 jobs over the period 2021-2022. That good news doesn't change the fact that reality doesn't look bright everywhere. Some companies still face serious difficulties and the aid measures are vital to them. A large number of companies are faced with an economic form of long covid, for example in aviation, travel, transport or the cultural sector. Many companies have contacted me to point out these difficulties. The same applies to many of our fellow citizens, especially the most fragile. That is why I proposed to the government to extend certain aids in the fourth quarter of 2021, in particular the temporary unemployment aid Coronavirus. With regard to the latter, we note a sharp decrease in its use, which is in line with developments in the health situation and the lifting of the various prohibition or restriction measures. According to the figures, it is mainly used in the sectors most affected by the crisis. By 2022, I also proposed a transitional system for companies that will always be impacted by this form of long-term economic co-vid. I have also sought the views of the social partners on this important issue. At the end of last week, they informed us that they unanimously wanted an extension of the system for the fourth quarter of this year. They also undertook to deliver an opinion on a more targeted and conditional transitional system by 15 October this year. As far as your questions on access to temporary unemployment in the case of children who are to be quarantined are concerned, it is clear to me that this measure should also be extended. Mr Anseuw, of course the budgetary context is being analysed and taken into account. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that early and sudden cessation of aid may have harmful consequences. Discussions are ongoing within the government, but no agreement has yet been reached. I hope, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that in the next few hours or days we will be able to come with proposals that take into account the still complicated situation in certain sectors or companies. In particular, I have not mentioned it, in the Horeca sector, particularly in some major cities such as Brussels or Bruges, cities that are dependent on international tourism, whether it is classical international tourism or business tourism. I believe that we must take these situations into account in order to provide the necessary support for a few more months to ensure that the economic consequences of this health crisis can be minimised to the maximum for these companies and sectors. Finally, Madam President, with regard to your specific question on social protection measures for the cultural sector, this will not surprise you, I am particularly attentive to it, as will you. Here too, discussions are still under way. As I said, I hope that in the next few hours or days, we will be able to present and, above all, present to these sectors the support measures that the government has decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u53	Minister, I would first like to recall a few figures. In general, I say that behind the figures there are also human beings, but the figures are sometimes as important. At the height of the pandemic, these temporary measures involved 1.2 million workers. We can imagine what they would have become if we hadn't made those decisions. Despite our hope of getting out of this pandemic and the economic damage it caused, in July there were still 150,000 workers who depended on this temporary unemployment. I say this for those who would dream that everything is now settled and that we can now remove all this without problems. I would like to say to those who question the financing of these measures, we have already discussed them here and the workers themselves know that while this pandemic has impoverished a lot of people, a small elite in this country has become richer. I'll only mention Colruyt. So it's still a matter of choice. How do we and what do we take as public authorities to save the purchasing power of workers? I would also like to stress that, yes, this concerns the construction workers, the bus construction workers, the aviation industry and, as my colleague has pointed out, the cultural sector which cannot be forgotten. I hear your willingness to extend and that this will take place, but the 30th of September is approaching very quickly. Do you guarantee that there will be a renewal before the end? That was the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u54	I don't know if you want to answer, minister, or if you want to say that the few hours and days were part of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u55	I do think I have answered that. The intention is to provide clear answers to the workers, workers and businesses concerned as soon as possible. I think the discussions are moving fast right now. I hope to be able to reply in the affirmative in a few hours or in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u56	Minister, I think you have put very reasonable questions on the table regarding temporary unemployment due to corona. We have been helping companies and employees for so long where it was needed, it would be a shame and it would also be totally inefficient to get them killed just before the end. As regards temporary unemployment for the care of a child, that was a simple answer to a fairly simple question. I hope that this will be supported, and I would ask those who are considering not to support it, to explain to those parents what solution can be offered for children who need to be quarantined. I think we have a good measure here which, unfortunately, I stress, we need to extend for a while with the end in sight, because we are not quite there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u57	Minister, it may have been a little naive of us to think that you would put all the cards on the table today. We are going to wait for this debate and the decision of the next few hours and days. We just want to point out once again that there are sectors today that really need it. This week there was a lady at the VRT who said: we hope that the measures will go on for a while, both the right of bridging and the temporary unemployment, because I still have to be able to supplement my buffers as before the crisis. Well, it's not the federal level's job to supplement buffers. You can't blame her because the system exists, and as long as it exists she'll use it. In that sense, I think it is important to take very targeted measures. As far as the transitional regime is concerned, there is a system of temporary unemployment for economic reasons and last year we looked at how we could share that invoice: 70% or 5.63 euros, we share the invoice between employers and employees, between the government and the company. It is also crucial to be able to focus quickly on training and training for such temporary unemployment for economic reasons. I think there are many elements on the table to take the necessary transitional measures in a modest but effective budgetary framework. I therefore hope that we will be able to clarify this very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u58	Minister, your answer is very interesting in several ways. Firstly, and this is often the case, you are not speaking on your own behalf, of course, but we are asking the government. The question that several colleagues and I have put to you is whether the measures are being extended or not? You have said on behalf of the government that there is no agreement yet, while you have said on behalf of the government that you are going to extend them. That's very interesting. I can only conclude from this that when you speak on your own behalf, your will is indeed generally law in the government and whatever you announce will happen. So that's obvious. Am I happy with that? Actually, not quite. For the very simple reason that I also said that these measures have proved their added value. Unemployment remained low, bankruptcies remained extremely low. The latter of course also has to do with the moratoria on bankruptcies that were there at some point, but also after that they remained low. So there's nothing wrong with it in itself. However, if we maintain them for longer, we will also maintain the economic crisis for longer. The downside of the coin is that if you maintain the measures for too long, the natural dynamics of existing companies disappearing and new companies being set up are suppressed, making it more difficult to re-establish a healthy economic fabric with more efficient use of the means of production. It is also true that, after the corona crisis, certain sectors will never have the size they had before the corona crisis. However, this movement, which should actually be a natural movement in the economy, is suppressed by those measures which are still not fine-moulded. I have spent a year and a half pleading for fine-meshed support measures. That it couldn't at first, I understand. After all, we had to act very quickly. That also makes sense, we had to avoid panic in the markets, in the people and in the families. In retrospect, I think it is a missed opportunity not to use the second half of this year as a transitional period, but there must be at least more fineness in the aid measures, with the clear aim of bringing them to an end very soon. Otherwise, we will maintain an artificial situation that will neither benefit people nor families. For an individual or a family, bankruptcy is problematic, but at macro level bankruptcies lead to the release of workers in sectors where there is a shortage. That is a certain movement that is now suppressed by too long...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u59	Mr. Anseuw, timing...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u60	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. I had to wait months for the pleasure and pleasure of asking the Minister a question. Now, if you'll excuse me for a moment, Madam President, I will do my best to conclude quickly. Minister, it is my privilege to see you again and I try to enjoy it as much as possible. I do have your telephone number, Minister, but I do not want to disturb you too often. I'm just trying to make sporadic use of that. That being said, I am pleading for the side wheels to be turned on our economy. Many sectors no longer need them, others do; in that respect, I agree with you. Anyway, now is the time for fineness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this temporary unemployment for force majeure is a safety net for all parents who work and who have to look after their child. It is important to avoid parents being caught in the dark and finding themselves in improvised and inappropriate situations. I have the feeling that you will be really persuasive within the government to extend this measure. At least I don't see how we can oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u62	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I am, of course, looking forward to speedy clarity on this, first and foremost for the parents, who sometimes face the problem overnight. These are mainly primary school children who have not been vaccinated. So there's the punch line. I also know that other measures are being considered, possibly by changing the quarantine rules, but also by pushing for more ventilation in schools. Of course, these are good measures. Unfortunately, children are at home. We must all work together so that children can now go back to school as much as possible. However, as long as the infections occur, parents must be able to rely on something to fall back on, so that they can receive their children, in this case primary school children. I would also like to explain the extension of temporary unemployment in certain sectors. Mrs Muylle, I share your view that it is not the intention to create buffers. I can only say that I have spoken with people, for example, who operate a travel agency. They are still not at pre-covid crisis level. Their staff are on temporary unemployment, though not every day. In the meantime, however, there is already work in the travel agencies. The man in the tight labour market is almost begging to extend the measure, because he absolutely does not want to lose his experienced staff completely. The decision must strike a good balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u63	Minister, what pressure on your shoulders! I hope you have allies in this government for a successful outcome. I have the impression that this is the case, because more focused decisions will have to be made to avoid abandonment. Situations were mentioned. They're all justified. It is clear that this is the pivotal moment and this is the time to go to the end of the accompaniment in which we have committed ourselves from the beginning. Discussions are under way. We understand that. This government can sometimes (even often I would say) make coherent and courageous decisions. Courageous, because it is indeed a financial bet. It has a cost and it is probably this element that delays the discussions. In fact, this cost is an investment, because businesses, parents, workers and the cultural sector are areas in which we need to invest a little more now in order for the transition to be more gradual and smooth and for redeployment to be more favourable. That's the bet we're taking. I understand we weren't the only ones. This concludes the third topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u64	Minister, this question dates back to the first half of July. We were talking about the level of effectiveness that had to increase, but a new ipa has now come up with a loosening of runways. A study by three Ghent economists from 2016 showed that runways do not lead to longer careers. In a first phase, the chances of continuing to work appear to be increased but after that stage, usually at the time when workers are eligible to retire early, those on runway leave the labour market just faster. I do not believe that this can be the intention, unless you contradict it later. The days off acquired by the runway must keep the work for older workers bearable, but in reality the workload increases precisely because there is no sudden increase in the number of staff employed to compensate those who are absent. Instead of organising workable work, there is a risk of disrupting work organisation, especially in a context of labour shortages for many jobs in different sectors. Today, the system costs around 200 million euros a year. This cost, of course, is likely to increase considerably as runways are relaxed. What return on investment do you actually see in expanding those runways? Will you take additional or compensatory measures to ensure that the easing of runways will effectively lead to longer runways or less similar periods? Do you have a view of the budgetary impact of the relaxation? In other words, what growth do you expect in the system and what is the cost of this relaxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u65	Mr Anseuw, unlike you, I do not consider workers to be a burden or a cost that must be systematically compensated by return on investment measures. Workers are not numbers, they are people who are at the root of our economy. They deserve recognition and respect. I will read out a short excerpt from a free contribution by Monica De Jonghe, Director-General of VBO, and David Ducheyne, President of hrpro.be. The document was published in La Libre Belgique and is therefore written in French, for which I apologize. "The introduction of end-of-career employment at age 55 for people with a difficult job or a long career aims to keep them on the labour market longer by offering them the opportunity to work part-time. Rather than considering the agreement as a spoliation of future generations, it can also be seen as a small step forward. Indeed, in addition to maintaining the age of the RCC at 60, it gives employers an additional opportunity to keep those who meet the criteria and offer them a solution." Mr Anseuw, you say that instead of organising the work, I am threatening to disrupt the organization of work. I quote: '... especially in the context of labour market cuts for many jobs'. I would remind you that this is an agreement between the social partners and I believe that the social partners are fully aware of the reality of the labour market. Contrary to what you are suggesting, I believe they are perfectly capable of assessing the risks of their actions. The budgetary impact of the measures is estimated at EUR 79,4 million for the period 2021-2028. Of course, this amount does not take into account payback effects. Details of the calculation can be found in the attached tables which I will hand over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u66	Minister, you have started your reply by saying that, unlike me, you do not regard workers as a burden. I forgive you for that, because that's not your style at all. Someone must have prescribed that to you. An employee of your cabinet probably didn't like my question or maybe my work didn't taste good. That can be perfect in a free society like ours. Yet it is rather tendential and such an intention process no one has to make in my place. I don't blame you, because an employee has done it for you, each his responsibility. Anyone who has followed my interventions in recent months and years on the subject of labour market policy and the Ipa knows perfectly well that I value employees. More importantly, I believe that employees should be valued more than they are now, for example, with older workers in the context of the Ipa. At present, different workers are being sidetracked more quickly in our labour market against their will at the end of their careers. So I don't have any lessons to learn from people who think I should put myself on the spot that I don't appreciate employees. On the contrary, I think employees should be appreciated much more, especially the experienced workers we are talking about now, who can always bring a lot of knowledge and skills into the organisation. It is important that they can do this longer than is possible today, but with the ipa it is just shorter. That explains the substance of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u67	Mr Anseew, we must shorten the lines, because they are always too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u68	Madam President, I shall close. I feel like I'm the pebble in your shoe today, but that's not my intention at all. In your reply, Minister, you pretend that the Ipa is a matter for the social partners. However, the government also bears a responsibility, as the government has approved the Ipa. So you cannot pretend to be on the sidelines and have no responsibility in them. If you have no responsibility, we cannot question you about it, because you will reply that it is outside your competence. However, the ipa does indeed belong to your jurisdiction, so that kite does not go on either. We differ, because I fear they are not good measures. The research of the Ghent professors shows that and the future will also show that. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid not. I'm afraid those professors from Ghent are right. But, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So very soon we will be able to see what the result is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bayet. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Bayet on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u70	Mr Minister, the structural social fraud of parcel delivery workers has been mentioned in our committee more often, including after the massive findings by the social inspection services. The new CEO of bpost also mentioned this problem in interviews at the beginning of July. He himself said that he did not have to say that to the government, but he said that it is different and better organized in the Netherlands than in Belgium. He referred to the fact that PostNL, for example, pays 30% of the payments to its subcontractors into a so-called G account in the Netherlands, a special blocked account that can only be used to pay the social contributions and/or VAT. In our country this is not so well regulated, so there is no level playing field. In our country, we also have chain liability, including in the cleaning, surveillance, construction, metal, agricultural and food sectors, but no longer in the transport sector after the Council of State annihilation in 2015. Can extending chain liability or retention obligations be a solution for fraud-sensitive courier services? How can we also impose the same conditions on foreign subcontractors on our roads as our own companies? Will you take additional or other measures in the fight against social fraud by parcel companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u71	Mr Verreyt, the Law of 12 April 1965 on the Protection of Workers' Wages provides for a general regime of joint and several liability in respect of wage debts. Those arrangements shall apply only to the activities to be established by the Joint Committee or Sub-Committee after the opinion of the competent Joint Committee or Sub-Committee. At the time, there was a KB which applied the general regime of joint and several liability in the context of certain transport activities. However, at the request of the employers' organisation UPTR, KB was destroyed by the Council of State. The required opinion of the competent Joint Committee was not unanimous and, in the absence of it, the draft of the Royal Decree did not pass through the Council of Ministers. Re-establishing a system of joint and several liability can indeed be a solution for the fraud-prone courier services. The chain liability provided for by the general regime of joint and several liability shall apply to principals, contractors and subcontractors irrespective of their place of establishment. I also mentioned that during the meeting of the SIOD's structural consultation committee on 18 June, in consultation with the President of the Board of Auditors and all social inspection services, it was agreed that special attention will be paid to the problems of courier companies in the coming months, with specific checks on these activities. Finally, I mentioned earlier that my cabinet and administration have contributed to a new preliminary draft law amending the Social Criminal Code. This work is directed by the Minister of Justice. The intention is to put this into practice in the autumn. This review will examine how companies that commit structural social fraud can be more severely penalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We all know the conditions in the parcel service, which cause dangerous situations on the road through the very long working days and the tired drivers who are barely paid for the 200 packages a day they have to deliver, and the traffic offences that result. I support the idea that SIOD and the social inspection services should have all the means to carry out these controls. These controls must be stepped up, because the situation is not improving. The general arrangements to which you refer are clearly not enough, and I sincerely hope that there will be additional initiatives, such as the introduction of chain liability, to counter abuses, alongside the judicial approach to infringements. We need to ensure that the parcel distributors in the parcel services we need in our economy are able to work in good conditions and that everything is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u73	Minister, on 13 July the trade unions and employers reached an agreement in the womb of the National Labour Council on the right to the so-called "small leave" or under-employment leave for foster children and foster parents. In the opinion of the NAR, the foster child is treated as an ordinary child within the family. It's about kids in long-term foster care, so at least six months. If foster care has actually lasted three years, the right to that circumstanceal leave remains for the rest of the foster child's life, allowing foster parents, for example, to take little notice of their foster child's marriage. For Ecolo-Groen, foster children and parents deserve every support to be able to experience important events in life together. As far as we are concerned, this is a very important and much-needed agreement for better recognition of foster care. After all, many foster care parents are still needed to give foster children a warm nest. In this connection, I would like to ask the following questions. Will the government turn this unanimous opinion of the National Labour Council into legislation? Will the same procedures be applied? What is the intended timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u74	The philosophy of small derelictness is to ensure that workers can participate in certain family events when their professional obligations prevent them from doing so. For example, it is a solemn communion or a marriage of a child. In this respect, it is fair to grant the same rights to workers who long-term receive a foster child in their families. Those workers currently only have a right to a minor allowance in the event of the death of their foster child. For this reason, last year I asked the National Labour Council how such an extension of the current low level of pay could be achieved for workers who have long-term foster children in their families. In its opinion 2.233 of 13 July 2021, the National Labour Council makes a concrete proposal. In it, the foster child in long-term foster care is treated as a child within the family for the purposes of the minor care. My department is analysing the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u75	Thank you, Minister. You're still a little shallow. It is right, and quite logical, that this analysis should take place now. I would urge you to do something about it. I told you, foster care is so precious to individual children, but also to our society. The economic costs are just another reason for me, but for some they are an important reason. The fact that a child can be taken into foster care is much better for the child, and it also costs us less money than if we had to accompany all those children in institutions, not to mention the fact that it is better for a foster child to grow up in a warm nest. I believe that this is a very good social agreement, which responds to a very fair question. I really insist that this be transposed into legislation in the future. Other work is on the table, for example to give parents in long-term foster care rights to parental leave. That is another very important dossier that we must continue to work on. It is important for these children, but it is also very smart to invest in them in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u76	Minister, I would also urge that this important and unanimous opinion be implemented. Foster parents are invaluable, Mr Willaert has just said so. They must feel that their commitment is appreciated. They should also be given the opportunity to combine this commitment with their work. I understand your department is making a good analysis of that. There may be a cliché of foster care. It is important that there is a proper regime that strengthens the diversity envisaged in the opinion. There is also the right to parental leave for foster parents. Foster parents take care of a child for a long time and they run into problems, sometimes problems that are inherent to vulnerable children, to combine work and family. I would like to make a warm appeal to Parliament to correct that historic mistake. We must give them the right to parental leave. Their commitment is difficult to capture in figures but has a great importance for society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u77	Mr Minister, at the end of June the social partners approved the interprofessional agreement setting the wage standard and the marketable coronary premium in companies and sectors that achieved good results during the crisis. This is the single premium of up to EUR 500 net plus employers' contributions of 16.5%. The level of profit to be achieved in order for a company to pay this premium has not been determined by the government to give the social partners the greatest margin of freedom in their negotiations. Negotiations are therefore under way within sectors and enterprises, some of which have already been concluded. It is therefore important to assess how this measure is implemented. Since this premium can be granted since 1 August, the first figures for the enterprises or sectors which have been accepted must be known. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the status of these awards? How many companies have accepted the bonus system? What is the average net amount allocated for full-time work? Which are the sectors in which the premium is most widely granted? Given that it is feared that in some healthy companies, the premium will be denied to workers despite good profits, what do you intend to do to support workers who would be in this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u78	Mrs Cornet, I am going to disappoint you, but the negotiations started a few weeks ago and at the moment, unfortunately, I have not yet returned from the ground. I have no doubt that you will come back to me shortly to ask me again about the state of play of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is a very important issue, since the amount has been stressed quite carefully, which is significant for the workers. This premium must really go up to 500 euros and its implementation must be as collective as possible. This should help us evaluate the 1996 Act as it stands. We have exchanged a lot about this, this assessment is really essential. We'll talk about it in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u80	The Plopsa amusement park is in principle governed by the Joint Committee 333 for Tourist Attractions. As regards wage formation, minimum wages are fixed by sector through collective agreements concluded between the social partners, which are generally made compulsory by royal decree. If trade union officials have information that these minimum wages are not respected, they can, of course, file a complaint with the Labour Inspectorate, which will monitor social laws in this regard, as it systematically does when it is seized. For my part, I did not receive a direct inquiry either from the unions or from Plopsa's management. If the parties have a persistent dispute, they can of course use the competent services and officials of my administration. As I have already had the opportunity to say in this committee, they are at the disposal of each other to conduct investigations and to accompany the different parties in mediation processes in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u81	The question had already been asked some time ago. I don't know exactly where that is today. I wish I had more precise information, but unfortunately that is not the case. Thank you for reminding us that we are discussing minimum wages in the sectors. It is sometimes not obvious to negotiate within them. This is why we are taking advantage of this situation to point out that the minimum interprofessional wage is important. We support the wage of 14 euros per hour defended at the union level. This is not the first time we have been in this situation. Irrespective of the fact that you have not been involved, we must also see how we can deal with things. It will eventually be through a legislative change and we will return to you in relation to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u82	Minister, last March we learned that Belsay, the manager of Pimkie's ready-to-wear stores in Belgium, had been declared bankrupt. This announcement was surprising for its twenty-four stores and 136 employees concerned since, according to ACV Puls, the issue of closure had not been discussed with staff. This surprise announcement thus deprived the workers of compensation and of their last salary, since it was the closure fund of the Onem companies that was charged with squandering the unpaid wages. What was not their surprise when they learned, at the end of August, of the plan to open a new Pimkie store in La Panne and other shops, which could soon reopen in Liège or La Louvière! Moreover, the Belgian franchise is taken over under the guise of a "new" partner: the SRL PIMK, founded on 3 June 2021 and whose sole administrator is none other than Frédéric Mulliez, whose name also appears in the family group Mulliez, owner of the Pimkie brand. The CNE and CGSLB unions denounce an unacceptable manoeuvre. Legally, the opening of one or more new shops under the Pimkie banner does not involve a takeover, the manoeuvring structures being different. However, the trade unions believe that Belsay's bankruptcy must be reconsidered. This situation has indeed features in common with the dubious manoeuvres of disguised restructuring, the aim of which is to take responsibility for debts and social obligations, where losses are collectived, while the profits ultimately accrue to the same structures. Mr. Minister, does your administration feel that there is a problem, given that the benefits accrue to the same people? Legally, is an appeal possible? Will you respond positively to the invitation of the trade unions, who propose to reflect with them on the means, in particular legal ones, to develop to prevent this type of behaviour? Would you be prepared to work on legislative adaptation to put an end to such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the reopening of Pimkie stores has indeed been mentioned in the press and on social networks. At the end of June, the French shareholder Diramode re-launched the brand's business in Belgium, in the form of a first open store in La Panne. As you recalled, Ms. Cornet, this structure was founded last June under the name of the SRL PIMK. If they consider it appropriate, workers and/or their representatives may denounce the employer's practices to the trustee of the bankruptcy. They could also file a complaint or a legal remedy. To date, no sign of this situation has come from the social partners to the social conciliator of my trade administration. As you know, in the event of an employer's bankruptcy, the worker receives a guarantee from the Enterprise Closing Fund. Where appropriate, the employer may recover from the employer the amounts paid in connection with his guarantee intervention. As part of the bankruptcy of the company Belsay, managing the Pimkie stores at the time, the closing fund informed me that the workers' compensation claims were filed in June this year. However, no decision was taken by the Fund Management Committee and no payments were made to the workers. Furthermore, the closure fund was informed of a possible takeover by the company Diramode. The fund collects useful information about a possible recovery of assets after bankruptcy. Legal arrangements allowing unscrupulous companies to escape their obligations to their workers as well as to society as a whole, while continuing to raise considerable profits, must be neutralized. The fight against this kind of artifice falls within the sphere of company law, which is the responsibility of my colleague from the Department of Justice. Nevertheless, we will continue to follow this issue closely, as it is revealing and illustrative of the legal-capitalistic drifts supporting the commodification of workers that I cannot tolerate. You won't be surprised. My firm has already made a number of contacts with trade union representatives on this subject and will certainly still have one, because we want to draw all the lessons from this case in order to be able to identify the legal means to develop in order to avoid this type of behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u84	Although some aspects of these manoeuvres are legal, they are not moral. The consequences are serious for these families. My feeling is mixed because, on the one hand, you say you have not received a specific request, but, on the other hand, you say that the situation is talking to you. We encourage you to be more proactive in the future. We believe that taking a legal initiative could take place. We are also thinking about this in order not to see the injustices without acting with tools that we would have at our disposal, but also to help the social partners even if they are the front-line actors. We also have a role to play in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will highlight three elements. The first is that the guarantee fund can recover the wages paid from the company. I hope that the guarantee fund will use all means to recover this money if the structure actually turns out to be the same, as seems to be the case. Secondly, no payments have been made to date. It's quite challenging because it's workers who are waiting for a salary. It is important to give a signal that these payments must be made as soon as possible. Indeed, regardless of the legal or administrative situation, workers expect income. They need it. We just had a crisis. These workers must be paid notwithstanding the manoeuvring by their employer. Thirdly, you indicate that these sets must be neutralized and are subject to company law, and I am delighted to hear it. I hope you will take – because you can, you can!- an initiative with your colleague to neutralize this type of assembly. I hear you've had contact with the unions. I hope you will come back with good news as soon as possible to put an end to this kind of practice. I promise you very often at the end of my questions: we will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u86	We will turn to the following attached questions on the supervision of telework. For information, we will complete the work at 5 p.m. That will probably be the last question. In this case, we move from point 11 to point 19, so that it is quite logical that he is a little surprised by the timing. The inquiry was sent on 14 September, and the minister comes back the first week of October, I think. Just in case, we can postpone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u87	What are we going to do today, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u88	We have two options. Either, we listen to the attached questions on the supervision of telework. Either, our colleague connects and we hear his inquiry, since they normally have to be treated within two weeks of their filing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u89	That may be, but we're waiting here. So either the question is asked, pending a possible connection, or... I suggest we finish point 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u90	I think we have time to deal with both, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u91	Madam President, Minister, today is National Telework Day as part of the Mobility Week. My question dates back to the past, but in the meantime a few new figures have come out, including from the FPS Mobility, which shows that there are twice as many teleworkers as there are for corona. So clearly there has been a acceleration. Six out of ten companies are willing to work hybrid. Around 90% of companies want to continue their efforts on teleworking. However, what struck me by the same figures is that only about 33% of companies currently have a real telework policy. I shall now return to my question. The external prevention and health services state that during corona people were stressed by teleworking. However, at the end of August and the beginning of September people start to wonder how things will be organised in the workplace and whether things will go well. They wonder whether it is sufficiently framed. That is why I have the following questions. You asked the social partners to evaluate this. I know there have been hearings in the National Labour Council. However, the intention is to do something about these hearings. At the same time, we also see that things are progressing in the workplace and that things are developing. Many people continue teleworking without too much framework. What's the timing? Have you imposed a timing? What has been your question to the social partners? Have you imposed timing on the social partners? By what time can we expect initiatives in this area, so that teleworking can be developed in good conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u92	Madam President, Minister, today is also World Alzheimer's Day. It is also the National Day of Peace. There's a lot of days today, all on the same day. That is not the point, however. We have asked for a new structural framework for teleworking before the summer, which will have a new place in the new normal. At that time, you told us that companies should for the time being fall back on the existing arrangements and any agreements that had been concluded within that framework. However, teleworking is a new feature for many smaller companies and the existing teleworking arrangements will need at least an update. You also agreed with that before the summer. At the end of July, you assured that the National Labour Council would carry out an evaluation to identify the initiatives needed to update the regulatory framework. You were expecting the results of these discussions during the course of this month. What is the state of play on the new regulation on teleworking? Will the revision of the teleworking regime come into effect when the temporary teleworking measures in the context of the corona crisis end? Part of this brings me back to a question just now, where there was still no agreement on the extension of a number of measures that would take place within the framework of corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u93	Minister, this crisis has been going on for a year and a half. Telework is a permanent requirement. Many employers and workers seek to strike a balance between face-to-face and home-based work. If telework is seen as a solution that offers a better quality of life and productivity, it is important not to develop a rigid framework that is not adapted to the personal circumstances of each worker. The pandemic has highlighted the difficulty for some parents to work at home, but also for those who do not have a quiet room in order to be able to concentrate. A recent study of SD Worx also highlights the significant increase in the number of mid-term absences of under 25s, due in particular to the lack of essential social interactions at the beginning of a career. Minister, a personalized approach to telework, tailored to the needs of employers, but also - and above all - workers could be a good way of understanding the telework of tomorrow. A few months ago, probably last December, you even informed us that you had asked the social partners to carry out an evaluation of the telework framework. Have any avenues for reflection been explored? Have you asked them to pay particular attention to certain target audiences, including young people at the beginning of their careers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the work on the evaluation of the existing framework for telework has been under way since last June, as you have all reminded us. They started with hearings of experts from each region and specialization. The last telework meeting of the National Labour Council took place on 16 September. In early June, I informed the social partners that I expected the results of the work undertaken by the CNT in September. So I'm waiting for them by the end of the month. Mr Anseuw, at the end of the month I expect the evaluation of the National Labour Council. Particular attention should be paid to the gender dimension and the impact of telework on the consideration of private and professional life. It is not yet entirely clear what the precise impact of the Consultation Committee's decisions on collective agreement 149 on the mandatory or recommended telework by the public authorities is, as this recommendation has in principle been dropped, except for Brussels and now for Liège. Consequently, the collective agreement remains normally applicable in Brussels and Liège. Moreover, the importance of structural teleworking, as regulated by collective agreement 85, has increased considerably. It is clear that an update of the framework for teleworking is very urgent. In addition, several important laws and collective agreements apply to telework, such as the Welfare Act for Workers and the Code on Social Welfare at Work, collective agreement 72 on stress prevention policies, the law on company consultation on deconnection and digitisation, legislation and collective agreements 5 and 39 on enterprise consultation, as well as collective agreement 81 and national and EU legislation on the protection of privacy. In addition to the evaluation of the second cycle of pilot projects on the primary prevention of burn-out which will continue this autumn, a legal framework for the launch of projects on innovative work organisation is also being developed in consultation with the National Labour Council. Those projects should be launched in 2022 and may include the organisation of telework, including the mental well-being of teleworkers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u95	Minister, I look forward with you to the end of the month. This applies equally to the many employees and their employers who are undoubtedly wondering how to proceed with teleworking. You reply that all legislation and collective agreements remain applicable to teleworkers. But there is still a need for a clear structural framework. In practice, there is still too often no telework remuneration and there is no provision for a framework in the field of ergonomics or mental well-being. Larger companies usually have policies in this area, while smaller companies often do not know how to start doing so. There we see possibilities for improvement. A clear framework could clarify this. For us it is ready: we attach great importance to the voluntary nature of telework, the reimbursement of expenses, the right to inaccessibility and the attention to mental well-being. Hence my question as to how telework would be included in the burn-out projects. I am certainly pleased that not only the burn-out projects are being continued, but that, in the context of innovative work organisation, resources are being provided for telework and attention to the mental well-being of the employee. All these measures can ensure that telework is not only available to the happy few, but accessible to every employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Together with colleagues, I look forward to the measures on the table. We certainly do not need to convince each other of the importance of good teleworking arrangements. Over the past year, many workers have been particularly flexible, even though the conditions at home did not always lend themselves to teleworking. In my view, workers are certainly entitled to a good system, which is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer. There will indeed need to be a truly structured framework for teleworkers and teleworkers. As previously stated, some do not have adequate computer equipment or adequate housing for teleworking. At some point, attention will have to be paid to the well-being of workers, especially the right to disconnect and the gender dimension. I'm back on the right to disconnect because, when you're at home, whatever the place, maybe you take your computer every night at impossible times. There is a need to distinguish between private and professional life. We will therefore await the continuation of the meetings that you will have in the near future. As I understand it, the NTC took place on September 16, 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u98	The last meeting was held last Thursday, September 16, 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u100	Thank you, Congressman, for your question. The renewal of Frank Robben's term of office was carried out under the same procedure as for all the representatives of the public social security institutions, namely an assessment of the term of office passed by the supervisory minister(s) and the representatives of the social partners who sit on the Management Committee, i.e. both the representatives of the employer's bank and the representatives of the trade union bench. On this basis, a proposal for a decision was made to the Council of Ministers. In the case before us, the management committee was unanimous in giving an excellent mention and requesting the renewal of the mandate. This proposal was endorsed by the relevant ministers and endorsed by the Council of Ministers. In this case, I imagine that your interest in this specific mandate is linked in particular to Parliament's debate today on the reform of the Data Protection Authority. But the government felt that it was not appropriate to integrate this element into a renewal process that did not address ODA itself. That being said, we hope, of course, that Parliament's discussions on ODA reform can be concluded as soon as possible. The digitisation of our public services is an important source of improvement in the quality of service to the citizen, but it requires an effective regulatory framework and fully operational control organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is, to say the least, surprising. Indeed, I understand that Mr. Robben has received an excellent assessment and that the issue of ODA is not taken into consideration. I'm just reminding you that Mr. Robben is accumulating conflicts of interest. And it is not only the issue of ODA that is at stake here. Belgium has even been called to order, and condemned, by the European Union for its processing of data. Robben is in the lead in this poor management of Belgium's data, particularly through his presence in the ICC. Robben is both a buyer, a seller, a controller, a controlled buyer and a member of the social security hub bank, and also a member of the eHealth, Smals. Conflicts of interest do not cease. We find out every day. I don't know if you're reading the press like me. In recent months, it is a scandal what is happening here in Belgium. And you think his assessment is excellent. I don't know how to take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u102	Like the social partners, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u103	Yes, like the social partners, but there is no call for applications in your unclear procedure. That is why I am tabling a motion to that effect. You find it excellent and relevant to renew the mandate of someone who is in a permanent and flagrant conflict of interest and who has been denounced by the European Union! I am surprised at your answer, Minister. I thought this government was going to take steps to respond to the condemnations it receives from the European Union, but on the contrary, you are continuing the same momentum as if nothing were happening at all. You mentioned ODA. ODA is just one of Mr. Robben's eighteen positions. I therefore move a motion of recommendation to that effect and will return to Mr. Robben's conflicts later. I will also question Mr Vandenbroucke on this decision, to say the least surprising and intriguing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u104	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - considering the reappointment of Mr. Frank Robben as head of the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank for a six-year term; - considering the controversies which Mr. Robben is currently facing, in the face of the potential conflicts of interest which he is accused of, in particular his participation in the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority; - Whereas, given its importance in the Belgian landscape of personal data management and its potential impact on citizens' privacy, it is necessary that the appointment of a director-general of the BCSS be as transparent and fair as possible; asks the government make a transparent selection of the person to be appointed as deputy head of the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, allowing as many candidates as possible to run in order to make a selection on the basis of objective and fair criteria. [[»]] A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Nabil Boukili's speech and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the reappointment of Mr Frank Robben at the head of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security for a term of six years; - considering the current controversy surrounding Mr Robben as a result of allegations of possible conflicts of interest, in particular his function as a member of the Data Protection Authority's Knowledge Centre; - whereas the appointment of an administrator-general of the KSZ should be as transparent and fair as possible, given the important role he plays in the Belgian landscape in the management of personal data and the possible impact on citizens' privacy; calls on the Government work on a transparent selection of the person who will perform the function of Administrator General of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, so that as many candidates as possible can apply for that position and a selection can be made on the basis of objective and fair criteria." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u105	Madam President, at the beginning of the sitting, we agreed collegially to reverse the debates in order to remain consistent. However, I have not been sufficiently attentive to the timing. I should have asked at the very beginning what time the meeting would last. In fact, at the request of the CNT to extend temporary unemployment, there was also a demand to assimilate the holiday money. I included it in my oral application earlier. Minister, you did not answer that question. Since there was a separate question, we thought that there would be no concern about it. Can we already get that answer now? If so, how? I know that my request is complicated in terms of procedures, but we have already done so with the previous minister, that is to say by receiving the matter directly here as she is ready anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u106	The other option would be that you might be able to file it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u107	It seems a bit unfortunate to us to enter into another written procedure when there is a request on the ground on this subject. You have to know that people are still going to be a little impacted. I understand that there are procedures to be followed, but it would be valuable to move forward on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic569x.u108	When you leave and greet the minister, I think you will have an answer. In the meantime, we just need to officially turn it into a written question.
