ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u1	Prime Minister, women who wish to abort in Belgium still face a restrictive legal framework criticized by all the experts heard in the Committee on Justice in Parliament: associations, family planning, doctors... but also and above all by women. They all criticise the problems caused by the criminal sanctions provided for against women and their doctors, as soon as the strict legal conditions are not met, in particular the six-day period for reflection, but also the legal period of 12 weeks. Within 12 weeks, a woman must be aware of her pregnancy within eight to nine weeks; go to a hospital or planning centre, with prior information, all the structures not proposing the possibility of recourse to abortion or the availability of a doctor every day; go to two medical appointments; observe the six-day reflection period; and finally carry out the voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG). This situation results in about 500 women travelling to the Netherlands each year to carry out an abortion, at least for those who have the information, the support of the entourage and the financial means. The others – the most precarious, but also the most vulnerable – must have an abortion in Belgium, with all the legal and health consequences involved. A petition signed by nearly 14,000 people, including more than 5,000 caregivers, was submitted to Parliament just a year ago, insisting that "for women, go abroad because their country avoids the problem is even less simple. It is for them a violence that we no longer want to be accomplices to. From the beginning of this legislature, however, this debate has come back with a text carried by the Socialist Party (PS), but also by my party and others, including yours, Prime Minister. It was followed by numerous hearings leading to a comprehensive amendment by eight parties, which included the end of specific criminal sanctions, an increase in the legal deadline for abortion from 12 to 18 weeks and a reduction in the time for reflection to 48 hours. This text was voted in committee and then blocked in plenary session by a referral of amendments to the Council of State, four times! In our parliamentary history, this procedure had never been so instrumentalized, which forced my group to table a proposal to amend the Rules of the House. It is not normal for a bill to become at this point a matter of government formation or for women's rights to be the subject of a sinister political bargain. Your government agreement finally endorsed the refrigerating of these bills in the words: "It is appropriate to continue their consideration in the House's Justice Committee, and – after an independent multidisciplinary scientific committee (designated by the government parties) has conducted a study and an evaluation of practice and legislation – to continue the work constructively so that a consensus emerges between the government parties and while waiting, not to proceed to the vote." Today is a year later, and it must be noted, Prime Minister, that there is no scientific committee and even less consensus among the various parties that make up your government. On several occasions, however, I have tried to relaunch this dossier. I first asked the Minister of Justice in May 2021 who felt that it was up to Parliament to take the initiative to set up such a committee and to determine how it would operate, whether it was its composition, specific tasks or the scope of its work. I then wrote to the Speaker of the House who included this item in the Conference of Presidents of June 2, 2021, from which it emerged that "the majority is drawing up a proposal on this subject. The method of work has already been discussed with a scientific committee and various universities. The final proposal will be communicated at a later stage." Four months later, nothing but an article in the newspaper Le Soir confirming work between the parties of La Vivaldi on the composition of this committee and the themes of its study without further precision. In the meantime, Prime Minister, women facing the strict legal conditions, which I listed earlier, remain abandoned to their fate. Prime Minister, what is the status of the establishment of the Scientific Committee to conduct an evaluation of the practice of the law in relation to IVG? Who is responsible for its creation: the government, the parliament, the authors of the bill, the group leaders, the presidents of the parties that make up Vivaldi? What will be the composition of this committee? What will his specific mission be? How will the members of this committee be appointed? How will their impartiality and independence – to use the precise terms of your government agreement – be assured, given that they must be nominated by parties that have already had the opportunity to decide either for or against the text on which they must floor? Are there a schedule of work and a deadline for conclusions? What will be the added value of this committee in relation to the evaluation committee of the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy, created by the Act of 13 August 1990, whose last evaluation report was already presented to Parliament in March 2021? Finally, knowing the CD&V's position on IVG, how can you ensure that the consensus requirement contained in your government agreement is not ultimately synonymous with the definitive blocking of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u2	Mrs Rohonyi, you are asking quite detailed questions about method and content. You mentioned the government agreement. I will not, therefore, do so because you are very familiar with the content. You are questioning the government here on a subject on which the government has said it should be managed by parliamentary groups. You'll tell me we're talking about it in the government agreement. Of course, but it is to make it clear that this is not a subject that is being debated within the government. Moreover, in no discussion, either in Kern, in the Council of Ministers or in an informal way, I did not discuss this subject because, from the beginning, the parties decided that it was up to Parliament to manage it. A method has been defined that could be used by parliamentary groups. You asked the question to the Minister of Justice on May 5, 2021, who also explained in detail that it was Parliament's responsibility. So you are not going to ask the government to position itself in relation to parliamentary work. Here's the method. In addition, you are asking detailed questions about this multidisciplinary scientific committee. How will it be defined? What are the criteria? How will it work? Here, too, I invite you to address your fellow Members, who have the aim of implementing all this. Personally, I find that the method that was stipulated in the government agreement must be implemented. That's my personal opinion. It is therefore not an opinion of the government that tells the parliamentary groups what to do. Personally, I find that the established method must be implemented, but it is not up to me, as a member of the government, to do so. You know that very well. There is therefore no intention of the government to interfere in matters that are ongoing parliamentary initiatives. To find out the position of the different groups regarding the method, you need to ask them the question. It's not my job to give it to you. You're gonna tell me that you stopped me, and I didn't really say anything. Yes, but you're asking the government a question when it's not up to him to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u3	Prime Minister, I am very disappointed with your answer. At least now I have a clear answer to the question of who is responsible for relaunching this dossier. The ball is therefore clearly on Parliament's side, in particular the authors of the proposal, even though the main author has in the meantime become president of our assembly. It will therefore be the author who took over the file. However, things remain particularly incomprehensible for those who are finally waiting for an advance in this matter, and an extension of the legal deadline to abort in particular. As we all know, the purpose of the bills was the issue of the formation of this government. You cannot therefore say, after the episode we have known, that Parliament remains free of its work. We know very well that this freedom will not exist until there is a veto on the part of the CD&V. This party has made this issue a condition for its participation in the government. Prime Minister, I have recently reread your book The Century of Women, and the speech you gave on the occasion of the establishment of your government. There is a very sincere desire to give women the keys to their emancipation. Except that, as is the case today, women are not fully protected in their access to abortion; on the contrary, they are penalized because they have the misfortune of being outside the very strict legal conditions. Your government and Parliament, together with the majority parties within it, ultimately refuse to grant them this famous emancipation. It must be noted that every day that passes without responding to these women is in fact one day too much. Every day they are subjected to the violence of a pregnancy or forced motherhood, or to an IVG practiced in illegality and therefore in hiding. In the face of this situation, I have always considered that the compromise reached with the CD&V in your government agreement was a decoy. Unfortunately, your answer particularly confirms this to me because, for months, Parliament and the government have been turning the ball on this issue. Yes, I was entitled to expect clarifications about the committee of experts, and the possible consensus that could be reached, while knowing that the CD&V would have to give up its veto on this issue. I have not obtained any clarification with regard to these two fundamental points. That is why I am tabling a motion for a recommendation, which I shall now refer to the chairman of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u4	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Sophie Rohonyi and the Prime Minister's response, - having regard to the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence; - Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article 2 thereof, which recalls that the Union is founded on common values, including those of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights; - having regard to the European Convention on Human Rights; - having regard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular Article 35 thereof, which enshrines the right to health protection; - having regard to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women of 18 December 1979 and in particular article 12 thereof, which states that "States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of health care with a view to ensuring to them, on a basis of equality of men and women, access to medical services, including those relating to family planning"; - having regard to the programme of action of the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development of September 1994, which states that the means of controlling women's fertility are vital elements of population and development programmes; - having regard to Council of Europe Resolution 1607, adopted in April 2008 and promoting access to safe and legal abortion in Europe, which states in particular that: 'in the Member States where abortion is authorised for various reasons, the conditions guaranteeing women effective access to this right are not always met: the lack of community-based care facilities, the lack of doctors who accept abortion, repeated compulsory medical consultations, reflection periods and waiting times for abortion are all obstacles that can make access to safe, affordable, acceptable and adapted abortion services more difficult, if not impossible in practice'; - having regard to the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy, as amended by the Act of 15 October 2018; - having regard to the Act of 13 August 1990 on the establishment of an evaluation committee for the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy; - having regard to the last report of the said evaluation commission and its recommendations; - Considering that abortion is a matter of women's health and that it is the duty of each State to protect the health of its citizens; Whereas, in Belgium, criminal penalties are provided for women and their doctors if only one of the many conditions of the Act of 3 April 1990 is not complied with, in particular information on the possibility of receiving the unborn child, the period of reflection of 6 days and the period of 12 weeks of pregnancy; - Considering that the legal period of 12 weeks for abortion is far too short in practice; - Whereas this restrictive legal framework was criticized by all experts (associations, family planning, doctors, university professors, etc.) heard in Parliament during the hearings on Bill 55-158 amending various legislative provisions with a view to making the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy more flexible; - Whereas, because of this restrictive legal framework, about 500 women travel to the Netherlands each year to carry out an abortion; - Whereas, as a result of this restrictive legal framework, other women must either complete their pregnancy or have a clandestine abortion in Belgium, if they do not have the support of the entourage, information on possible alternatives abroad, or the financial means to go there; - Considering the health and legal consequences of such clandestine abortion; - Whereas an abortion performed abroad is not reimbursed by Belgian social security; - Whereas a petition denouncing the Belgian restrictive legal framework for abortion and calling for Parliament to take a decision on this matter has been signed by nearly 14 000 people, including more than 5000 caregivers; - Whereas the proposed law 55-158 amending various legislative provisions with a view to making the conditions for the voluntary termination of pregnancy more flexible, carried out by eight parties by means of a comprehensive amendment, has been referred four times to the Council of State in plenary meetings on 13 February, 12 March, 2 July and 15 July 2020; - Whereas the government agreement submitted to Parliament on 1 October 2020 states, concerning the proposed abortion laws, that: 'it is appropriate to continue their examination in the Justice Committee of the House, and - after an independent multidisciplinary scientific committee (designated by the government parties) has conducted a study and an evaluation of the practice and legislation - to continue the work constructively so that a consensus is reached between the government parties and waiting, not to proceed with the vote'; - Whereas on 5 May 2021 the Minister of Justice affirmed in the Committee on Justice that it was for Parliament to take the initiative to set up such a committee and to determine how it should operate (composition, specific tasks, scope of work, etc.); - Considering that on 2 June 2021 the President of the House of Representatives replied, following a letter addressed to her concerning the establishment of the Committee, that: 'A member (of the Conference of Presidents) indicated that the majority was drawing up a proposal on the subject. The method of work has already been discussed with a scientific committee and various universities. The final proposal will be communicated at a later stage.'; - Considering that in September 2021 there was no scientific committee or consensus between the various parties making up the government; recommends to the Government 1. to finalize the establishment of the Committee in a very short period of time, ensuring its objectivity and expertise on issues relating to the IVG, and to determine the conditions for the recognition of the said expertise; 2. to clarify and guarantee the added value and the complementary role of the Committee in relation to the evaluation committee of the Act of 3 April 1990 on voluntary termination of pregnancy, established by the Act of 13 August 1990; 3. to inform Parliament on a regular basis of the progress of the establishment of the Committee; 4. provide for a schedule of work for the committee and a date for the submission of the findings to Parliament; 5. to inform Parliament, as soon as possible and now, of the elements already available, concerning: the composition of the committee and its precise mission; the manner in which the members are or will be appointed; the manner in which the impartiality of these members is ensured; the working schedule of the committee; 6. the date on which the committee's findings were delivered; 7. to reach a consensus on the decriminalisation of the abortion and on the easing of its conditions which is in line with the expectations of women and actors on the ground." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, - having regard to the Treaty on European Union, in particular Article 2 thereof, which states that the Union is founded on common values, including human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, - having regard to the European Convention on Human Rights, - having regard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and in particular Article 35 thereof, which establishes the right to health protection, - having regard to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women of 18 December 1979, in particular Article 12 thereof, which provides that States Parties to this Convention shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of health care in order to ensure that women, on the basis of equality between men and women, can benefit from medical care, including those related to birth control; - having regard to the action programme adopted by the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo in September 1994, which states that the means by which women better control their fertility are crucial aspects of population and development programmes; - having regard to Council of Europe Resolution 1607 on access to safe and legal abortion in Europe, adopted in April 2008, which states, inter alia, that "in the Member States where abortion is permitted for various reasons, the conditions under which women are effectively entitled to that right are not always fulfilled: the lack of health care institutions nearby, the shortage of doctors willing to carry out the abortion, the repeated mandatory doctor visits, the reflection period and the waiting period to carry out an abortion are all obstacles which may make access to safe, affordable, acceptable and adapted abortion services more difficult or even de facto impossible; - having regard to the Law of 3 April 1990 on the termination of pregnancy, as amended by the Law of 15 October 2018, - having regard to the Act of 13 August 1990 setting up a committee for the evaluation of the Law of 3 April 1990 on the cessation of pregnancy; - having regard to the latest report of that evaluation committee and its recommendations; - considering that abortion is a matter of women's health and that it is the duty of each country to protect the health of its female citizens; - whereas women and their doctors in Belgium risk criminal sanctions if one of the many conditions laid down in the Act of 3 April 1990 is not complied with, including the provision of information on reception facilities for the child to be born, the six-day reflection period and the 12-week period of pregnancy; - whereas the legal period of 12 weeks to carry out an abortion appears to be far too short in practice; - whereas this restrictive legal framework was criticised by all experts (unions, family planning, doctors, university professors, etc.) who were heard in Parliament in the course of the hearings on legislative proposal 55-158 amending various legal provisions in order to ease the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy; - whereas this restrictive legal framework leads to about 500 women going to the Netherlands every year for abortion; - whereas this restrictive legal framework means that other women either have to take off their pregnancy or have to have illegal abortion in Belgium, if they are not supported by their environment, have no information on the possible alternatives abroad or do not have the financial means to travel abroad; - having regard to the fact that such illegal abortion has certain legal and health implications; - whereas an abortion abroad is not reimbursed by Belgian social security; - whereas a petition in which the restrictive legal framework on abortion is being sued and in which Parliament is asked to express its opinion on that file was signed by almost 14,000 persons, including more than 5,000 health care professionals; - whereas the legislative proposal 55-158 amending various legal provisions in order to ease the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy, which was submitted by 8 parties through a comprehensive amendment, was sent back to the Council of State four times at the plenary sessions of 13 February, 12 March, 2 July and 15 July; - whereas the government agreement proposed to Parliament on 1 October 2020 on the legislative proposals on abortion states that: "[it] is appropriate to further examine this within the Committee on Justice of the Chamber, and after further constructive work by an independent multidisciplinary scientific committee (identified by the parties forming part of the government) on a study and evaluation of practice and legislation, in order to reach a consensus between the parties forming part of the government and in anticipation not to proceed to a vote; - considering that the Minister of Justice said in the Justice Commission of 5 May 2021 that it was for Parliament to take initiatives to set up such a committee and to define its working methods (composition, specific tasks, field of work, etc.).); - whereas, on 2 June 2021, the President of the Chamber of Representatives replied to a letter addressed to it on the establishment of that committee: The working method was already discussed with a scientific committee and with different universities. The final proposal will be communicated at a later date. - whereas there is no scientific committee in September 2021 and there is no consensus between the different governmental parties, advises the government 1. to complete the establishment of that committee in the very short term, while ensuring objectivity and its expertise on abortion issues, and to lay down the conditions for the recognition of that expertise; 2. to clarify and ensure the added value of the Committee, as well as its complementary role vis-à-vis the evaluation committee under the Law of 3 April 1990 on the termination of pregnancy, established by the Law of 13 August 1990; 3. keep Parliament regularly informed of the progress made in setting up the said Committee; 4. set a timetable for the work of the Committee, as well as a date on which the findings are delivered to Parliament; 5 to inform Parliament as early as possible and from now on of the elements already available as regards: the composition and precise mandate of the Committee; the way in which the members are or will be appointed; the way in which the impartiality of the members is ensured; the timetable of the Committee's work; 6. fix the date on which the Committee's findings are delivered; 7 to reach a consensus on the depenalisation of abortion and the relaxation of conditions, in line with the expectations of women and actors in the field." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55020006C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u6	Through the media we learned that the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity took part on 3 September in a so-called inspiring walk on the theme of the social consequences of the coronapandemic. The walk in question was organised by Etopia, in the context of the ecological summer meetings of VertPop. An sich this would be nothing special, if it were not stated that the activity was only accessible to women and all people who feel like women. That is politically correct language for forbidden for men, or at least cismen, and therefore anything but inclusive. Prime Minister, in your opinion, is there discrimination between men and women in this case? What are your arguments for this? Did you have a conversation with the Secretary of State in question about this incident? Given its powers, can the Secretary of State simply promote a gender-exclusive activity and continue to perform its function?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u7	Equality between men and women is a theme close to my heart. Of course, I condemn any form of gender discrimination. I cannot give a specific opinion on the activity you are referring to. Private organisations are not prohibited from organising activities which, in practice, only aim at the participation of men or women. You may also know that there are women's movements, as well as sports clubs exclusively for men. These are not strange to our society. Once a particular sex is deliberately excluded, we must assess whether or not it is a form of unlawful discrimination. It is then up to the judiciary to decide on this, to the extent that it is asked to do so or to the extent that it considers it necessary. I understand that this is a sensitive issue, particularly because of the wording used in this invitation. On 29 September, the Secretary of State gave a detailed explanation in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of the reasons she had as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities to participate in this activity. She stated that the aim of her participation was to ensure that everyone can participate fully in society. In her view, participation in the walk would promote this objective. The Secretary of State himself knows very well that this government attaches great importance to equality between men and women and that it is expected that it will act in a serene manner in words and deeds. It is also a good thing that she has had a thorough debate with Parliament, with groups of both the opposition and the majority, who have been able to express their views. I cannot infer from her explanatory statement that the Secretary of State would question equality between men and women, quite the contrary. So I see absolutely no reason to question her position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u8	Prime Minister, you first drown the fish with trivialities and then pass it on to the Secretary of State himself. You defend your team as a good captain, and that's a credit to you, but there's got to be an end to that righting one day. Well, there's a limit to that righting. The Secretary of State's mistakes and mistakes are piling up. Think of her, to put it mildly, man-unfriendly policy statement at the time, the appointment of the government commissioner and now this, the promotion of an inspiring march on which men are not welcome. Prime Minister, I think your Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities is driving from one moat to another. I am wondering to what extent you will continue to act as a hoisting service. It's actually time for you to withdraw her license, because anyone can see that she's evolving from Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities to Secretary of State for Unfair Opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, this issue is rooted in the terrible floods that hit our communes last July, particularly the town of Eupen. You know that because you visited my commune. I have learned that the Minister-President of the Land of Rhineland-Palatinate has taken the initiative of suspending certain provisions of the German law on public procurement, in order to allow for a certain speed of reconstruction work, including those managed by the public authorities. That's why I'm asking you this question. I've been wondering for a long time who to put it to. I first thought that it should be addressed to the Regions. I was redirected to the federal government because it is a federal law. Here I am before you, Prime Minister, to ask you whether it may be possible to suspend certain provisions of the 1993 Act. Could this proposal be discussed in a given time for municipalities seriously affected by the floods?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement is currently in force. This law does not provide for the possibility of suspending its application as a whole, temporarily or not, in the context of a particular crisis or with a view to reconstruction following a crisis. In the current state of European law, this is not possible in any case for public procurement reaching the European advertising threshold or below this threshold for markets with a certain cross-border interest. We have not received any notification that it would be possible to apply the current legislation in the context of flood crisis management. For example, the above-mentioned law provides for the possibility of using the negotiated procedure without prior publication as a matter of urgency if a series of specific conditions are met. Therefore, if possible after consultation with several economic operators or when the value of the approved expenditure is less than EUR 139 000. The latter exception, which already offers a considerable degree of flexibility, is of a purely Belgian nature. It is therefore not envisaged to introduce a temporary exception for public procurement below the European threshold in the context of reconstruction work following the floods. If, temporarily, the rules no longer apply for certain contracts, the question would be whether this would not open the door to direct award. If the possibility of direct introduction was too much facilitated, this could have negative consequences in some cases, such as an increased risk of corruption or a decrease in quality and higher prices. I doubt that such an approach, using a temporary suspension, will guarantee the most optimal and fair use of public resources. The current approach effectively ensures that public procurement principles, including the principles of equality and non-discrimination, are also respected in reconstruction and that available public resources are used as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u11	Prime Minister, your answer does not take into account the possibility, particularly in Germany, of suspending certain provisions on the award of public contracts. I hear what Europe is saying about this. I think there is probably more flexibility than your answer suggests. I am not in the presumption of corruption or doubt. I just want to relay the problems on the ground for the communes that have to tackle huge reconstruction projects. I know the law on public procurement as regards urgency, but there is a need. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question was tabled a month ago, but it is a good thing that it is being discussed today because it fits perfectly with your State of the Union. Last week, you said beautiful words about the power of diversity, which creates creativity. L'union failure la force, unity makes power. That is exactly what my question is about. The coalition agreement recognizes the multilingualism, the superdiversity of our country and expressly opts for a federalism of meeting which recognises and promotes the wealth of languages and cultures as an asset. What some consider to be a weakness or a problem is put forward as something positive. The coalition agreement also sets out a clear ambition: initiatives that ensure meeting and multilingualism and better knowledge of the languages of the country deserve more appreciation. The federal government is willing to facilitate them, together with the Regions and the Communities. It may not surprise you that I attach a great deal of importance to that paragraph and strongly believe in it. I have asked written questions to all the members of the government in order to focus on the implementation of this ambition and to look at the existing initiatives and new initiatives following that paragraph in the coalition agreement. On the basis of the answers to those written questions, I have first of all found that there are little or no additional initiatives in the pipeline. Secondly, it is mainly about matters of an administrative and political nature. This is of course important, but there are many intermediate structures, moments of consultation, task forces and working groups, with an active or non-active existence. In fact, there are very few initiatives to bring people, associations and local authorities together. I think you have a role to play there as Prime Minister, especially in connection with your State of the Union and the fine words you said last week. What approach will be taken in your government's lap to give more and better substance to this important ambition? It is not an ambition that is to be attributed to one particular competence. Are you or anyone other than a coordinating role? Is it not a good idea, for example, for the whole government to draw up some sort of action plan? It may seem a rather innocent paragraph in the coalition agreement to some people, but it is my belief that if we want to give this country a future, such initiatives are indispensable. It is important to promote this in the State of the Union, but it is at least as important to translate this into concrete policy actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u13	Mr Calvo, you are indeed quoting an interesting passage from the coalition agreement. You have already asked a number of written questions about this. There are a lot of actions and initiatives in the field, but this question leads me to believe that you expect a little more ambition in this area. Overall, the policy of my fellow ministers and their departments has not yet given great priority to meeting initiatives. That, of course, was not so obvious in the past year. Covid didn't help with that. In the one-and-a-half-meter society where contacts are advised as far as possible, contacts between communities were also not recommended, although they were not explicitly endorsed. We now return to a piece of normality. In my powers, it is clear that I want to make it a priority to bring all Belgians together. I would like to reduce that to language groups less than all Belgians. What language you speak at home or with your friends or what language your grandparents have spoken ultimately doesn't matter. At events like our national holiday, we should try to bring everyone together. The coalition agreement also contains proposals to extend this beyond what we have done so far. Each minister should reflect on how they can deal with this in their policy area. I do not know whether we should come up with a common action plan for this purpose. Then that becomes a sort of checklist that needs to be checked. I do not know if we will get the most out of this. I don't know if we really need to force this from above. Rather, I would like it to be a sustainable part of the policy. In my State of the Union, I have indeed indicated how this government looks at diversity in a broad sense. I do not want to reduce that to a language aspect. It's much wider than that. We must be careful not to go into the realms of the Communities. In a number of subjects, such as culture, youth policy and education, we are really in the Lander area. Of course, that doesn't mean we can't work together. The federal government is willing to be closely involved. I will certainly give that message to the prime ministers. The federal government does provide indirect support, for example through the National Lottery which supports a number of initiatives or the King Baudouin Foundation and the Prince Filip Fund, which also receive support from the National Lottery and support events and initiatives that lead to more meetings in our country, without coming to the territory of the Länder. There is a particular need to share good practices and examples of interfederal meetings, so that their added value becomes clear. For example, when choosing the invitations that I go into, I will certainly always see if there are interesting examples in the area of meetings between all Belgians. This is important in practice, but it is also symbolically important and I can only encourage my fellow ministers to take the same approach to the choices they make in the areas of, for example, invitations they address or initiatives for which their support is sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, you have very well sensed that I hope for a little more ambition in this area, but I can also, of course, understand your first element of response. We have had a special year, in which a great deal was not possible and other things, of course, asked for even more attention than that provision. However, the second year of the government offers opportunities to raise the level of ambition in this respect. Both now and in your written reply, you referred to the national holiday. It can indeed be a very strong platform to deliver on the ambition. For example, a lot of local authorities are also asking parties to be part of it. I fully agree that we should not lock people in the language they speak. My view on this is not contrary to yours: I think that more meetings will just contribute to a better knowledge of the other country languages. In that sense, that paragraph is very valuable. Finally, an action plan is not fetish for me. A lot of action plans are being made, but things that are not explicitly assigned to one member of the government often get less attention. This is why regular action plans are made, which is why the climate minister says she writes to her colleagues and asks for actions. I do not need an action plan, but I would ask you, for example, to draw attention to this paragraph by writing to all the members of the government so that it can be implemented in the near future. I think that has even more impact than a series of written questions from a Member of Parliament. So that is my small suggestion: not an action plan, but a letter to the members of the government to work on this in the second year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u15	Prime Minister, you will no longer be telling spectacular things about the meeting of the Consultation Committee on 17 September 2021. If you will, I certainly won't stop you. There will be another meeting of the Consultative Committee shortly. What are the plans for the extinct federal phase? That is the question that most people have on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u16	Mr De Roover, as you say, we discussed the epidemiological situation at the Consultation Committee on 17 September 2021. The conclusion was that, given the large differences in vaccination rates, a differentiated approach would be employed. There is a pedestal of persistent measures. Each region may adopt more stringent measures if the situation and/or the epidemiological situation so require. I note that some states have also done so through decree or decree, for example for the use of the Covid Safe Ticket. That's the right approach. We also see that other countries do not hesitate to work differently. As requested by the Consultation Committee of 17 September 2021, the end of the federal phase is being prepared. The Federal Government and the Länder have been asked to prepare this and to consider the operatives to be taken into account. The necessary opinions have also been requested on this subject. The Covid-19 Commission also plays an important role in this. The Consultative Committee will meet again at the end of next week. At that time, both the epidemiological situation and the vaccination situation will be evaluated. It will also assess how far we are in preparation and whether we are ready to take steps if it is considered epidemiologically justified to do so. In any case, the question was to prepare for the end of the federal phase, so that the federal government and the federal states are in a position to take that step. We're on our way to prep. I find it difficult to anticipate the decisions that will be taken. I will have the necessary contacts with the Prime Ministers before the next Friday's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u17	It goes without saying, Prime Minister, that we fully support the decision of 17 September to opt for a differentiated approach. The circumstances gave rise to different measures. We are currently reading quite a few reports in the media about the increasing number of infections. That is not good news, but the criterion that we, and you, have always used, was the number of hospital admissions in general and intensive care in particular, i.e. the burden on our healthcare system. Fortunately, today's very high vaccination rate makes a fundamental difference compared to the past. Corona, as I read in the newspaper today, may never really disappear, but hopefully it will become compatible with a normal life. Then the signal to reverse the federal phase at the appropriate time would be a formalization of relinking with normal life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u18	Prime Minister, your government has been working for a year now, but frankly it is still not quite clear to me who will follow what exactly or which minister is responsible for. This is clearly not clear to your ministers themselves either, since I am constantly being sent from the cabinet to the wall, specifically with regard to asymmetric policy. Your coalition agreement states that the government will pursue an asymmetric policy in a number of areas. I have questioned the Ministers for Institutional Reforms about this. They replied to me that I should ask my questions to the respective trade ministers. I asked all the trade ministers about the asymmetric policy. They all replied to me that the responsibilities in this area belong to the Institutional Reform Ministers. I then put a question to your attention to find out who is coordinating or following it. On 5 July, you answered my oral question. According to your reply, Ministers Verlinden and Clarinval would report on asymmetrical powers after the summer. You seem to indicate at least that the coordination is with them. Last week, in the debate on the State of the Union, I questioned Minister Verlinden about this. Once again, she replied to me that I should address my questions to the trade ministers. I don't follow anymore. The power of digitisation of State Secretary Michel has been added to yours. You coordinate the totality. Budget of Secretary of State De Bleeker has not been added to your powers. Nor does the Minister for Institutional Reform have a link to you. Who the hell will take on this asymmetric policy? I think it would be useful for Parliament to know that, but also for your government, because I cannot imagine that you would not want to implement that part of the coalition agreement. I am sure that you want to do so as quickly as possible, and it would be useful and useful to know who is pulling the cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, I do not wish to repeat what the previous speaker said. I also hope that my other questions will be included on the agenda today. That is why I am referring to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to clarify this rather parliamentary matter, which Members cannot refer to the text of their question as tabled, and at the same time explain an oral part of their question. That is not possible for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the division of labour is very clear. Researching the possibilities of asymmetric policy is a task for the trade ministers. It is clear that one minister is already somewhat simpler than the other, but in the area of Work, Mobility or Health there are more points of contact with the Länder than for example the Minister of Defence. The coalition agreement talks about place-based policies, so a policy that could differ according to the individuality of a particular region. As I have already pointed out to Mr Loones, the Institutional Reform Ministers have a coordinating and supporting competence in that part of the coalition agreement. That is why they have sent a letter to their colleagues in the government to draw up an inventory of ongoing initiatives. Their cabinets have offered the necessary expertise. Once that inventory has been made, the Council of Ministers may discuss a report on this matter. It does not seem illogical to me that a report is indeed being circulated when there are sufficient ongoing initiatives to provide information. After all, it is a continuous effort, which will continue over the coming months and years. It does not seem to me to be a problem if a debate can take place in Parliament, for example with the coordinating ministers. At the same time, I would like to point out that current policies have also taken steps in the area of asymmetric policy. We did indeed have a debate on this last week in the context of the labour market, in which it was clearly stated how federal policy responds to specific questions raised by the Flemish Government in this case. I am thinking, for example, of the greater autonomy that we grant to the Länder in terms of the availability of job seekers, the taxing of the premiums and training income granted by the Länder in respect of bottleneck occupations, the accumulation of unemployment benefits with regional contributions, the transition routes requested and the demands for more training for the temporary unemployed or the possibility of converting a redundancy allowance into training. These are all examples of policy questions, in which case the Flemish Government, which the federal government addresses, and which are also explicitly recognised by government representatives as examples of asymmetric policy. In the same way, of course, we are also open to questions from the Walloon or Brussels governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u22	Prime Minister, I shall begin with my comments on the content of your reply. Indeed, last week we debated a number of first steps in the field of asymmetric policy-making. However, we have not yet seen any of the other areas, even though this is also announced in your government agreement. That goes for all domains, even DOD. You seem to be insinuating that this would be less the case. But for example, for projects relating to the economic return of investments made in defence equipment, it might also be best to link up with the economic fabric, which is different in the Länder. As far as the division of tasks is concerned, you say that it is very clear to you. However, I do not think that Mrs Verlinden is yet very clear. I do not think she has the impression that she should, in your words, coordinate and support. When I asked her a question about coordinating and supporting, she answered me that I had to do my tour again with the trade ministers. Prime Minister, don't be afraid, I will. I would like to coordinate and support that myself. And I will end all the trade ministers again. After that, however, I will come back to you and Mrs Verlinden, because I sincerely hope that you will also want to carry out that part of the coalition agreement, as a matter of urgency, and take up that task yourself. After all, playing that ball is not very neat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u23	Mr Prime Minister, the coordinating role of the two Institutional Affairs Ministers is indeed not so clear to them. Of course, next week, when they finally come to the Constitutional Commission to answer questions, we will have another debate on this. You cited the example of labour market policy. In the meantime, I have already questioned the trade ministers. In his reply to me a few weeks ago, Minister Dermagne stated that he was prepared to go down that road concerning asymmetrical powers and was in permanent contact with the competent regional ministers. However, the inventory, which was already requested by Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval in January, has still not been made. I wonder how long these two coordinating ministers will have to wait for the inventory of their colleagues. I have the impression that the mood is not particularly great when a minister replies that he is prepared to do what is in the coalition agreement, but nothing is happening on the ground. What you mentioned, the measures taken, the answers to policy questions from among others the Flemish government, is something other than asymmetric policy in which federal powers are used in such a way that they strengthen the Flemish levers. So far, the inventory is off. I wonder how long we will have to wait for that and when we will see the concrete implementation of what is in your coalition agreement. The debate will be continued next week, with the coordinating ministers, but I assume they will not have to wait if the trade ministers do not do their job or do not want to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u24	Prime Minister, in January 2021, the hospital in Wallonia Picardy (CHwapi) was the victim of a cyber attack. Thousands of euros were lost by the hospital. Fortunately, the patient's personal data were not affected by this attack, but it could have been otherwise. In October 2021, it was the turn of the Saint Luc de Bouge clinic to be the victim of such an attack. Both the public and private sectors are the targets of this new online mass crime. As the report of the hearings on cyberattacks in the Committee on the Interior reveals, all signals indicate an increase in this crime and the danger it poses to our economy, our institutions and our public services. Cyber threats pose a real risk to all sovereign states of the world. It is a security issue of primary importance in the face of a hybrid threat given the many profiles of hackers and their motivations. Prime Minister, in the light of these various elements, could you please tell me where we are in the federal government's cross-cutting cybersecurity policy, not only in terms of our public administrations and services, but also in terms of our socio-economic fabric or key sectors such as hospitals? Are additional funding provided? Is a programme similar to the "cybersecurity cheques" in the Walloon Region possible at the federal level in order to encourage investment in cybersecurity? How does our country intend to integrate into the new EU strategy to combat organised crime, for which adaptation to technological change is a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u25	Prime Minister, like my colleague, I wanted to go back to the cyber attack on the Picardy Wallonia Hospital on January 17. The servers suddenly became inaccessible so that the operating unit was paralyzed for several days. This attack has, in a few seconds, wiped out more than 180 applications which are essential to the proper functioning of the hospital. It took two weeks to re-establish applications of priority services such as intensive care, nephrology, surgery or medical imaging. It is estimated that it will take almost two years of budgetary effort and about €300,000 to repair the damage caused by this attack. Last Saturday, it was the turn of the Saint-Luc de Bouge clinic to undergo a computer attack. There is now a real threat to our hospitals and not just to Belgium. In France, too, healthcare facilities were targeted by 27 computer attacks last year. The French State has thus decided to react through a France Recovery plan led by the Agence nationale de la sécurité des systèmes d'information. As far as Belgium is concerned, I believe that last year saw an increase of 32 % over 2019, with the main infringements, namely fraud, inflating by 38 %. During the same period, 69 per cent of cases were reportedly discontinued. Prime Minister, this year, how many hospitals in Belgium have been victims of computer attacks? Is there now a federal preventive mechanism, but also to help these hospitals quickly? What measures are in place by the government to combat cybercrime in general? Do you confirm that only 4% of cybercrime cases are prosecuted in courts and tribunals? How do you justify it? Are additional human and financial resources provided to combat cybercrime more effectively? For example, have they been included in our recovery plan? When and how will they be mobilized? Finally, what is the status of the legal framework, provided for in your government agreement, to prevent any malicious foreign intrusion into our critical infrastructure such as hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u26	Mr President, I have tabled two questions, both of which I will now put. I hope that will give me double speaking time. Prime Minister, my two questions are about cyber attacks. The first is a specific question. In the United Kingdom, the banking sector has described cyber attacks as no less than a threat to national security. Do you agree that such a classification would not be wrong with us either? In Computable yesterday, I read that in our country more than 600 companies are victims of cyber attacks every week, a huge number. Hence the pertinent question as to whether such a classification, in particular that persistent cyber attacks pose a threat to national security, would not be inappropriate to us either. What steps have you already taken to work together in a wider EU framework? When each country develops its own strategy against cyber attacks, there will be a lot of overlap in reality. I would also like to know how much percent of your cyber budget goes to the prevention section and how much to follow-up, tracking and prosecution. I have read that you will invest more in magistrates for prosecution, which is a good thing, but much will have to be covered by prevention. Many cybercriminals operate from abroad and hide behind different portals, so that their true identity is often unknown. My second question concerns the cyber strategy 2.0, which you proposed a few months ago. In that you say that you want to make sure that our country is among the least vulnerable countries in Europe in terms of cyber security by 2025, even the top five. It is nice and convenient that 2025 is the target, because that is a year after the next elections. My question is how you will evaluate that. Who are you tasked with examining our current level of security, so that you know what level to achieve? What parameters are taken into account for this exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u27	You even have some speaking time left, Mr Freilich.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u28	Mr Freilich, one of the priorities of the national cyber strategy adopted in May 2021 is the protection of organisations of vital importance, including essential service providers. Those essential service providers were determined by law in implementation of the European Directive on the security of network and information systems, i.e. the NIS legislation. It is public or private entities that provide essential services in six sectors, including the financial sector. Given the large-scale impact that cyber incidents may have on those identified sectors, such essential service providers should take the necessary technical and organisational measures to manage the risks and security of the network and information systems on which their essential services depend. International cooperation is also one of the six objectives of the cybersecurity strategy. It is an essential pillar of effective cyber security policy at national level. The Cybersecurity Centre closely follows international developments in cybersecurity. It participates in almost all the European cooperation initiatives that exist. It shall also ensure the further dissemination of information and national coordination. Cybersecurity is defined as the result of a set of security measures that minimise the risk of disruption or unauthorised access to information and communication systems. This requires the development and strengthening of technical but certainly organisational measures, which are not only preventive but also reactive. Cooperation and sharing of responsibility are the critical success factors for the development of an effective cyber security policy. It therefore calls for efforts by different national entities, each within its own powers, such as prevention, building cyber-weasurability of organisations and systems, detection and prosecution, intelligence gathering, defence and diplomacy. The responsibilities of the different actors are listed in the national strategy. In practice, they all work together in close consultation. Often they also take part in national and international cyber exercises together. Our country has been investing continuously in infrastructure and security for many years. The commitments of the new cybersecurity strategy also lead to additional efforts by the different national actors. Details of these initiatives will undoubtedly be discussed during the discussion of the policy papers and the budget. The cost of cybercrime is very difficult to estimate. A large number of victims do not report it. In addition, the actual cost of the damage is often complex. For companies, the costs consist of a sum of multiple cases, namely the effort to stop the attack and repair the damage, the lost turnover, the costs of technically unemployed employees, the costs of replacing systems and software, the costs of repairing any damage to infrastructure, any ransom paid, fines and compensations and reputational damage. The new cybersecurity strategy is effectively very ambitious. By 2025, we are trying to make Belgium one of Europe's least vulnerable countries in the field of cybersecurity. For the follow-up, the CCB will use a number of independent international indexes and rankings that give an indication of the general level of cybersecurity in a country. In addition, the strategy defines six concrete objectives: strengthening the digital environment and trust in this environment, better arming and informing users and administrators of computers and networks, priority protection of organisations from threats and adequate response to cyber threats. This is, of course, something that is being done in cooperation with the private sector and universities and for which international commitments are also being strengthened. You ask how much attention is paid to prevention. This is difficult to assess because the preventive work and the reactive work are mixed up. If this is to be done properly, it must be largely organised jointly. According to the CCB, it is difficult to disconnect the preventive hatch from the reactive hatch, as a kind of accounting. Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Senesael, as I said, cybersecurity is a shared responsibility. Achieving the objectives set out in the strategy requires a broadly supported approach and is a responsibility shared by all stakeholders, both within the various intelligence and security services, sectoral authorities and other government departments, as well as in the business world, with vital organisations or with all Belgian citizens. The different roles of the federal government actors involved, for example in the fight against cybercrime, are clearly defined in the strategy that was established in May this year. As mentioned earlier, these different actors, each in their own field, have identified additional resources and new initiatives to implement the strategy. Detailed discussions on the various projects should be postponed after the publication of the budget and the guidance notes of the various ministers concerned. The health sector is one of the six sectors defined in NIS legislation. The operators of the essential services identified in this sector must take the necessary technical and organisational measures to manage the risks to the security of the networks and information systems on which their functioning depends. The Minister of Health will also provide additional funding through the National Recovery and Transition Plan to increase the cyberresilience of the health sector. Specific projects for the self-employed and SMEs have been integrated into the European Recovery Plan. Awareness-raising and business support will be provided through campaigns and personalized support through the free provision of software or bundled purchases. Tools will be provided to assess their cybersecurity. Other tools will be available online to help address their gaps immediately. This will help companies increase their resilience and enhance their competitiveness and confidence in the digital world. For the year 2021, the CWB is aware of six cyber incidents in Belgian hospitals, but this figure is probably not very representative because victims do not systematically inform the CWB or do not always ask for assistance. I do not have precise figures on the number of criminal cases in the field of cybercrime that have actually led to prosecutions in courts and tribunals. Unfortunately, cyberspace lends itself perfectly to the anonymization of identities and the concealment of actions, which makes detection, investigation and thus prosecutions sometimes very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u29	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that further guidance will be included in the policy notes of the ministers concerned. With regard to the public health sector, it is gratifying that there will be additional funding to combat cybercrime and the adoption of the necessary operational technical measures. The European Recovery Plan will also make it possible to intervene at this level. I have not been able to answer all my questions, and I will certainly send you written questions for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. They detail a range of measures, including increased collaboration at the international level and the mobilization of resources. I continue to question two points. Firstly, with regard to the precise nature of these means, I mean that we will know more about them in the context of the budgetary discussions. Secondly, are these means sufficient to respond to the phenomenon of cybercrime that has become phenomenal during the crisis? Magistrates and experts are constantly alerting us to this issue and have been calling for increased investments for years to prosecute the perpetrators and, above all, to prevent the catastrophic damage caused by these attacks. This applies particularly to hospitals that cannot afford to see their services paralyzed, knowing that a whole series of care has already had to be postponed due to successive confinements. These are critical infrastructures that provide an essential public service and manage sensitive data. The government agreement also provided a legal framework to prevent malicious foreign intrusion into our critical infrastructure – we are still waiting for it! – but also enhanced cooperation at the international level – you tell us that it is in progress – and between the national security and intelligence services. Following the attack on the Belnet network on 4 May 2021, you made a number of commitments, including an analysis of the functioning of the board of the cybersecurity centre in Belgium and an increase in investments in IT services. We expect these commitments to be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u31	Prime Minister, I find everything very noncommittal and vague. I asked you how the evaluation will go, and you are talking about all kinds of indexes, but you do not specify them. I will therefore ask a written follow-up request to get more details on this. I asked you whether you consider it realistic that we will be among the frontrunners in cybersecurity. You say this is our ambition. However, there is a difference between ambition and being realistic. I have read the policy statements of other countries and they all say the same thing in that regard, namely that they want to be among the frontrunners. I therefore expected a more concrete answer. In your policy statement, you did not actually mention cyber security. You have mentioned the term merely in a list of the plans you have, in addition to artificial intelligence. I believe that cybersecurity would have been worth at least a paragraph of its own, since more than 600 companies are the victims of cyber attacks every week. So, as far as I'm concerned, this is too little, but hopefully not too late. Our companies really need this. We must therefore be able to assume that our federal government is doing everything we can. I will continue to ask you questions about this in the future. I will also put forward interesting legislative proposals on the subject. I hope your government will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is a question I had addressed to the Minister of the Interior. However, it turns out that you will answer it, which is very good. As you know, the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs (CADA) is an administrative tribunal chaired by a magistrate who receives the appeal of any person who encounters difficulties in accessing or obtaining a copy of an administrative document. It is therefore an important body in terms of the transparency of public governance vis-à-vis citizens. There are commissions for access to administrative documents at all levels of power (Brussels, Wallonia, Flanders, etc.).). At the federal level, the CADA is at a standstill or in any case not functional because the royal decree appointing its members, which must take place every four years, has not yet been renewed. Unless I am mistaken, the last royal decree is dated June 22, 2017. However, there is no provision for members to extend their term of office until it is renewed. Since 1 September of this year, this Commission has therefore been inoperative. Prime Minister, when do you intend to remedy this problem by having the CADA appointment order approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question goes along with that of Mr Vanden Burre. That royal decree has not been renewed. The Access to Administrative Documents Commission is not currently operational. However, it is an important right of an individual to require the public administration of the institutions and also to seek advice from the Commission on access to administrative documents. I, too, had asked that question to the Minister for the Interior, but given the importance of the question, it was referred to you. So I would like to ask you explicitly how it is that the royal decree has not been extended. As you know, together with colleagues Gijbels and De Roover, I have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, in which we focus on the importance of public administration and the importance of any binding advice. We now note that instead of going further on the right to transparency, the Royal Decree is simply not being extended and therefore the right to transparency has not been guaranteed since 31 August. I would like to hear from you when you will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u34	Mr President, the appointment of the members of the Commission for access to and re-use of administrative documents will take place as soon as possible in order to ensure its operational functioning. The delay in the appointment is due inter alia to the complex composition and to a number of legal uncertainties regarding the legal basis of the Reuse Section of the Committee. Indeed, the legal basis for the then federal Commission for the re-use of administrative documents, which was merged with the Commission in 2008 for access to administrative documents, no longer exists since 2017. A reappointment is therefore not possible. However, the European directives require us to make a number of choices about the powers of the Reuse Section. Furthermore, we also expected to know whether certain intentions regarding the strengthening of the legislation on the advertising of the administration itself could lead to a different composition or task for the committee. As you know, the Access Committee currently has only an advisory role. Also in the context of the Council of Europe's GRECO recommendations, an adaptation of legislation could be on the agenda to give the Access Commission decisive authority. In the absence of any other policy orientations, the Commission will be re-assessed in accordance with the existing rules, and I will propose the necessary names from my point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u35	Prime Minister, thank you. I hear you're going to take action and solve this problem. I think it's absolutely necessary. With regard to your last comment on the evolution of the law, know that moving towards a decision-making power of the CADA is an option that we support at the level of my group if you ever take the initiative in this matter. I think this is a very good development. This has already been the case at other levels of power in Belgium, notably in Wallonia and Brussels. So know that we would be partners and even support once again! We will follow this file with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I would also like to thank Mr Vanden Burre, because I note that we already have the support of a government party for the proposal that we have put forward to make these opinions binding. That's very good news. Prime Minister, it really needs to be considered in the context of new political culture. During the covid pandemic, we had very striking examples: the mortality rates of hospitals, the FAGG and the advice issued on vaccine contracts. That's very important. As a Member of Parliament, but also as a citizen, it was not possible to translate those opinions, which were clearly formulated, into actions and to have access to certain very important dossiers. Very recently, there was an opinion on the vice case that was published in the press. There was an opinion that the transparency of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men should be improved. No use can be made of this either today. I therefore invite you to take a very thorough look at the legislative initiative I tabled together with colleagues De Roover and Gijbels. Perhaps we can reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u37	Prime Minister, you do not come every week to answer questions. Sometimes that means that some questions are besieged, but the title "Disturbance within the government" never wears out in these times. That is an evergreen; so we can never say that this question is outdated. In recent days, Mr Magnette has changed his shoulder. He's no longer firing at coalition partner MR, but now Ecolo is the new favorite enemy. There was also an important comment from the government last weekend, since Mr Magnette is party chairman, in particular from Secretary of State Dermine. He said that Europe should invest EUR 5,000 billion in the fight against climate change, a problem that concerns us all. This is, of course, a huge amount of money, which he would also like to finance to a large extent with European loans, which will further advance the European Union towards a debt union. The idea that money costs nothing may wake up the inflation ghost, which of course also means that people are paying for this. However, that is easily forgotten. Has Secretary of State Dermine taken a government position on this, because I have the impression that Minister Van Peteghem might feel differently about this and perhaps you, as a liberal, too? After all, you will have to defend a position on this in Europe. I would like to use my remaining seconds to ask another question. This morning, in the Committee on Finance, I do not know whether this has anything to do with disagreement in your government, but you can be sure that Mrs Marghem said that the date of 15 October for Parliament to receive the budget has expired. It thought it understood, from the Treasury's office, that Parliament would not be informed of the budget documents until the end of November. However, this goes against the law of 22 May 2003, which states that Parliament should receive the budget on 15 October, which is now a few days ago. That has not yet been done and at the end of November would be a very gross and far-reaching overrun of that deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u38	Mr De Roover, your title indeed covers all loads and could actually be presented to about any government. Last week we debated about 40 hours and I think you were able to make your point there enough. But let me come to your specific question about investments. The debate on investment needs to be conducted. Indeed, the Stability and Growth Pact sets a very restrictive framework for dealing with investment. This is often noted, including from other governments. Investments are taken into account in the balance. At the same time, the European Commission, as well as society, is pushing us to make long-term investments, such as investments that can justify the battle for sustainability and investment in mobility. Several governments treat these amounts as investments and separate them from the classic budget. The debate on investment cannot be separated from the reflections on the Stability and Growth Pact. After the expiry of the general escape clause, will one say, for example, in 2023, that we are going to start again as if nothing had happened? That discussion has been going on for a while, and the consultations are starting now. European Commissioner and Vice-President Dombrovskis underlines that we cannot act like nothing happened, as I picked up from a message today. He stated that the Stability and Growth Pact should be reviewed. That statement seems to me to be justified. If investments are treated in a different way than current expenditure, this means that the rules on current expenditure are reviewed. Logically, the definition of current expenditure should then be reworded, more specifically the obligations relating to the health of current expenditure. There can therefore be no discussion of investment without talking about the totality of the SGP. The recovery and transition plan, which is part of the budget proposed last week, includes five pillars, including labour market reforms, promoting investment and sustainability. The fifth axis is our investment plan, a EUR 1 billion investment plan, spread over three years. One of the elements relating to this fifth axis is a note indicating the position of our government, which is sent, inter alia, by the Minister of Finance, Mr Van Peteghem. That note states how we look at that SGP and how our country intends to position itself in that discussion. How we position ourselves in that, I have made it clear in the past few minutes. Yes, it is about investment, but of course it is also about the health of current expenditure. Compare that to a company. A company will also look at its investment capacity. This is measured not only by accounting, but also by cash flow capacity. This is also, in general, the way in which a government should do it. A government has the opportunity to make long-term investments. They must not be translated into the annual profit and loss account, even though, of course, the health of funding is an important element in supporting investment. However, I note that the RRF was an important step when a common investment policy was really needed. It was the first time that we have an equivalent of the single market, which is so dear to us, in the areas of industrial policy and investment policy. Until then, everyone had their own priorities in it. With the RRF, for the first time, we have a common investment policy with the same lines, which will strengthen the impact of the Single Market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u39	Prime Minister, I would also remind you of compliance with the law of 22 May 2003.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u40	The Budget Office shall make every effort to make the documents available to Parliament as soon as possible. To be honest, I would be surprised if that was not until the end of November. I think it's gonna be faster, and it should be. It is not the first time that a government has not strictly met the date of 15 October. I think that happened to the previous government as well, if I remember correctly. I think the government should do everything in its power to meet deadlines. The deadline was clearly not met here, but everything is being done to do so as soon as possible. I have no details on this, but at the end of November I do not think I respect the functioning of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u41	Prime Minister, I fully agree with the latter. I hope that a little earlier than the end of November means that it is closer to 15 October than at the end of November, because that makes Parliament's work more difficult. The first part of your answer was a word-bite. It was interesting, for the sake of clarity, in which we have to look for the answer. When you say that it was the position of the government and of Mr Van Peteghem, I can say that it was not Mr Dermine's position. That's the way I'm trying to distill a conclusion from your answer. You made the comparison with the accounting of a company. I took lessons with Mr Moesen once. He pumped the differences into it very clearly. The 3 % that was ever set as a possible exceedance is actually meant as the buffer, which can be used for investments. If we keep the investments out of the budget, for which there are arguments, this is of course also an argument for reducing the 3% limit to 0 %. In that case, current expenditure should simply cover current costs. Then we'll have room out there to invest. It is not a bad idea that specific and correct criteria should be applied there. Look how much is being kept out of the budget. In the Flemish budget, it is 1 billion in a budget of 58 billion, while in Brussels it is 1 billion in a budget of 5 billion. My fellow Members responsible for the Walloon budget set-up are putting 4 billion out of the budget. It is noted that there is a rather smooth way of using the word 'investment' in order to boost the budget figures. If we manage to define the term investment correctly, this kind of thing would naturally be avoided. I repeat, you have also referred to the fact that the debate must therefore be about how much the current budget can go in red. The argument that the 3%, which we have been using as a standard since the Maastricht Treaty, is indeed used to finance investment, is therefore no longer valid. In Europe, you should be more in favour of reducing the 3% to 0 % and also of defining what investment would be. I note that Mr Dermine has not spoken on behalf of the government and I hope that he will remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u42	Mr President, I had addressed this question to Mrs Wilmès, but what an honour to see the Prime Minister answer it! At the Slovenian summit held on Tuesday 5 October, the 27 leaders of the European Union and those of the Balkan countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia) met to discuss their integration into the EU. It has been promised since 2003, but no longer appears to be guaranteed. However, Germany continues to support this integration project, but, as we know, the Union as a whole remains divided. Several countries, including France and the Netherlands, expressed doubts. Prime Minister, can you remind me of the Belgian position on this subject? What progress has this summit made in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u43	Mrs Jadin, the aim of the summit with the countries of the Western Balkans was to strengthen economic and political cooperation with these countries, in a context where the Union, despite its large investments and its very strong presence in the region already, is increasingly challenged by third countries. The Summit therefore reaffirmed and strengthened Europe's commitment through a number of principles. The European Union is by far the largest investor in the region. We must not leave this role to others, such as the Chinese or the Russians, who are eager to seize this part of Europe. The European Union will make EUR 30 billion of sustainable investment in the region. We have supplied nearly three million vaccines. We are therefore moving towards closer economic cooperation with a regional internal market between the European Union and the Balkans. We are taking concrete steps, including reducing roaming costs for citizens of the other country. We work closely on migration flows and security. Clearly, if we want to combat unwanted migration flows in a comprehensive way, we must have close cooperation with these countries. The discussion in Ljubljana was not about joining the European Union at all. That wasn't the point. The subject was: how do we work together? It is obvious that there is some frustration in some countries, such as Northern Macedonia and Albania. It is understandable, but there is no shortcut in the current procedure. All the acquis communautaire and the other elements must be respected. There are therefore no new prospects or commitments in this area. Our country supports all the important investments we make, as well as a strategic vision for these countries. It's a good thing for us that in our backyard - let's call it that - things are going pretty well. But without progress on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, there can be no prospect of joining the European Union. We must not forget recent events. On the one hand, no shortcut is possible and, on the other hand, close collaboration and a strategic approach to this region of the world are increasingly important for Europe and for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u44	Prime Minister, I am in full agreement with you. I am very pleased that you answered my question and your detailed answer. This will not surprise you: I fully share the strategy to be adopted, whether in terms of investment and economic cooperation, but also in terms of trade, which I hope - I am a liberal - will allow important progress in these regions, which will then be able to hope, in the light of these advances and the acquis communautaire, to join the European Union. It should not be lost sight of, but some efforts should be made, as well as close cooperation in all areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55021646C and 55021647C are converted into written questions, as are the combined questions. 55021649C, 55021651C and 55021650C by Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u46	I have a question for the Prime Minister about cybersecurity investments in the public sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u47	Mr President, Mr Freilich, for your first questions, I would like to refer to the subsequent discussion of the policy papers of myself and other relevant ministers and to the budget, as soon as it has been tabled. I will answer your fourth question slightly more comprehensively than just for 2019. In 2019 and 2020, provisional appropriations were worked out due to the application of budgetary prudence during the current business period. For example, the appropriations for the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium during both financial years were based on initial appropriations in 2018. In concrete terms, this means that there was de facto a reduction in expenditure because no new expenditure initiatives could be taken. For the financial years 2019 and 2020, no additional linear savings have been imposed except for the application of the aforementioned budgetary prudence. This government decided that by 2020 a linear saving of 2% would be applied to all department staff and operating appropriations. For departments directly involved in the fight against corona and the security services, this effort was limited to 0.89%. For the CCB, this represents a concrete savings of EUR 150 000 in staff and operational appropriations. You will have seen in the documents shared with Parliament that additional resources have been allocated in the area of budget and investment in the area of cybersecurity in different areas. That is the case for my domain, but important loans have also been granted for Foreign Affairs and Defence. As I said, we will have the opportunity to discuss this during the detailed discussion of the budget and the policy letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u48	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister, for allowing me to ask this question. I have thought a long time about last week's debate, I have looked at exactly how it went and how it could be done better. There are looming errors on the side of Parliament, but also on the side of the government. Everyone can see that there are quite a few discussions within your government. I would ask myself, then, whether this can be handled differently, so that it becomes more streamlined. There are two issues I would like to raise, firstly the investment agenda and secondly the budget. Part of the responsibility for the investment agenda lies with Mr Dermine, the competent State Secretary. However, he was not added to the Minister responsible, Mr Van Peteghem, but to Minister Dermagne. That is his PS colleague and politically that is entirely logical, but it does not make sense in substance. What do we see now? Mr Dermine communicates all kinds of things without coordination with Mr Van Peteghem. So there's tension on the line. I would suggest changing the division of labour and encouraging Mr Dermine to work more closely with Mr Van Peteghem. I now find it unrespectful of Mr Van Peteghem, who has to defend everything in the European Union, but is constantly shot in the back. I believe that this can be resolved by slightly adjusting the division of labour. With regard to the budget, we have noted that the horizontal competence for Digital Agenda lies with Mr Michel, who has been added to you. That is a good thing, because it allows you to coordinate. A number of powers are horizontal. Budget is one of them. It is good that a horizontal competence is linked to the Prime Minister, so you can be the driving force behind it. This also gives the exercise very seriously, because everyone knows that when Mr Michel speaks, the Prime Minister also speaks. I note that this was done for the Digital Agenda, but not for the Budget. Mrs De Bleeker has been added to Mr Van Quickenborne. Once again that is politically logical because they are both from Open Vld, but it seems more logical to add the competence for the Budget to the Prime Minister. I would, by the way, prefer budget to be the responsibility of a minister rather than a secretary of state. Anyway, that won't change anymore. If the Secretary of State for the Budget is added to you, you can support Mrs De Bleeker with your full weight. I believe that everyone understands that this will be necessary in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u50	As you know, Secretary of State is more likely to be added to a minister for constitutional reasons. Political agreements are indeed being made on this. In fact, in my view, this has little to do with policy or the need to coordinate. It is not because Mr Michel has been added to me that this would limit him in his ability to coordinate with other ministers. The fact that Mr Dermine was added to Mr Dermagne and not to Mr Van Peteghem does not limit him either. Everyone plays their full part in the government. As a result of the question on investment that Mr De Roover has just asked, I have made it clear what the government's line is, namely that a debate on investment should be placed in a broader context and that the Minister responsible conducts these discussions. For example, the Minister takes full responsibility for the SGP at the European Commission. One may indeed wonder whether the constitutional way of adding State Secretary is still the right way of working. In my view, this is more a political debate than an operational one, because I do not really see today as a disadvantage from the fact that politics has been added rather than functional.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u51	Prime Minister, I think you are the only one who does not really see a disadvantage in the current situation. How does a government normally work with the parties? There are the party presidents, who set out the political lines and push ahead. In addition, there are ministers who govern and communicate from their political responsibility and competence. However, you have people in your government who seem to be unaware that they are Minister or Secretary of State. I am thinking in particular of Mr Dermine, who is continuing to push the PS line. It would be expected from Mr Magnette, but it is Thomas Dermine who does it. In fact, he is somewhat embarrassing your Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Mr Van Peteghem. I believe that this also applies to you, because in your reply you say that it is the minister who negotiates at European level and who bears the responsibility. You say in a polite way that we must ignore what Mr Dermine says and listen to Vincent van Peteghem. That has been noted, so we know immediately what value you think we should attach to Mr Dermine's statements. However, political agreements do go deeper. We have also been in a government, so we know how that goes. It really is a looming mistake in your government, because it gives ministers and secretaries of state an incentive not to cooperate sufficiently. Mr de Croo, I fear that it will only get worse if you do not act quickly enough. That's something we can all spare, especially you. After all, the line of your government is that you are one team, working together and loyal. You rightly say that nothing should prevent anyone from working loyally together, anyone can. That's right, people can work together loyally. However, we note that this does not seem to be happening in your government, which is really a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic605x.u52	The PM's agenda doesn't allow for any more meetings. The remaining questions are postponed for lack of time.
