ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u1	Colleagues, there's a problem with streaming. If you agree, we can still start our meeting, without its dissemination. The full report will be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u2	Madam Secretary, in your policy paper, you indicated that you would like to study the pension split in divorces. This issue has recently been brought back into the current state of affairs by a legislative proposal and resolution by Mr Lanjri. The gender pension gap is a reality in Belgium. One in three women have a pension of less than 750 euro net per month (that is 357,063 women in total), three in five have a pension of less than 1,250 euro net per month (that is, almost 700,000 women) and nine in ten have a pension of less than 1,500 euro net per month (that is, more than a million women). The cause of the pension gap is multi-faceted: the pay gap, the unequal distribution of care and home work and the unequal distribution of part-time work. Raising the minimum pension to 1,500 euros net is crucial to close that pension gap, but the government declaration proposes to tighten the minimum pension conditions by talking about 30 years of effective employment. This will in particular make access to minimum pensions more difficult for women. How do you reconcile this with the ambition to carry out a gender test everywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u3	Madam Minister, the government agreement does indeed state that the principle of pension split will be studied. My questions are as follows: what is the state of play in the implementation of the government agreement on the pension split? Were actors already appointed to study this dossier? What assignment and timing did they get? Is the pension split supposed to be part of the announced pension reform in September?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u4	Madam Minister, I know that equality between men and women is close to your heart, as is the case with me. Today, the gender pension gap in our country is 31.9%. Women receive a pension which is almost one third lower than men's. In doing so, we are doing even worse than the European average, where the gender pension gap is 29.4%. In that respect we do not score well, we even went down compared to the year before. In addition to the pay gap, the gender pension gap ensures that women are more often affected by poverty and social exclusion, even after their active career. The gender pension gap has many causes and therefore needs to be addressed in various areas. Recently, I tabled a resolution in which I put forward several proposals: both for women and certainly for men, to make leave systems more attractive, to ensure equal distribution of pension rights between partners, and to improve access to supplementary pensions - the second pillar - for women. In September, the pension reform is on the agenda. This offers opportunities to address the gender pension gap. You indicated that you attach great importance to gender equality and that you also want to work on this in your policy. Therefore, Madam Secretary, the following questions: how do you intend to address the gender pension gap? Will you keep that in mind in the upcoming pension reform? What initiatives have you already taken or will you take to close the gender pension gap and ensure greater equality between men and women in pension rights? When addressing the gender pension gap, will you also address the problem of poverty that affects many women pensioners? Then I come to my second question. One of the possibilities to address the gender pension gap is to provide a pension split. That split is included in the coalition agreement. I myself submitted a legislative proposal along these lines a few years ago, just like my colleague Mr Sonja Becq. A pension split means that the pensions of both partners, both statutory and, where appropriate, supplementary pensions, are added up for all years of marriage or cohabitation and then distributed equally between the two partners. In this way, rights are distributed equally. Joint career choices, e.g. choosing that the woman would be more responsible for the care of the children or four fifths of working should lead to a pension in which both partners have the same, without either being punished. Accepting children is often the reason for choosing part-time work for many women: 44% of women work part-time compared with 10% of men. Hence, Madam Minister, the following questions: what are your views on the principle of the split-up of pensions? Are you already studying it as agreed in the coalition agreement? Have the pension committee, the National Labour Council or other bodies already considered the pension split? Are there any opinions or investigations on this matter? Have simulations been made of the possible impact of the pension split on the income of both pensioners? We need to keep a close eye on that. Our intention is not to push people into poverty. When will you come to Parliament with your proposals on the pension split: is that before the pension reform or not until September? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u5	Mrs. Samyn tells us she'll be late. It will eventually take part in the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u6	As Minister of Pensions, I think it is important that every employee can count on a decent pension. For women, this challenge is greater than for men. Better pension protection for women is an important challenge for me and the starting point in any proposal I put forward. I am glad that this dossier is also being put on the table. As Mrs Lanjri pointed out, inequality is already beginning in the labour market. According to the 2021 report of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the wage gap is 9.2%. Taking into account that almost half of women work part-time, a wage gap of 23.1 per cent per year is achieved. This reality is not new, unfortunately. When a woman leaves the pension, the gap increases to 30 per cent. The pension system – insurance – provides for equal treatment between workers, but in an unequal situation, the result is obviously uneven at pension level. The calculation of pensions is still linked to a typical career of a full-time worker. That's the problem. As a feminist, gender equality is one of my most important drives. We must make sure that this gap is reduced. I will carry out the gender test with each measure. It is good that there are proposals and ideas to ensure that the pension gap is reduced. Any input on this is welcome. I value that very much. The things you report, Mrs Lanjri, are well known. We share the analysis. You are also making good proposals to address the gender pension gap. It is therefore largely the measures that I foresee in my policy or those of my colleagues. We work well together for this. I am thinking, for example, of a good status for reception parents with adequate pension protection, which is an important element in achieving a more equal society. However, as a government, we are not alone: there is a lot of expertise that I want to involve. The Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women and the Institute for Gender Equality are involved in the reforms. This is obvious to me. Pension protection for women deserves absolute attention. It is precisely because the situation is uneven, that additional emphasis must be placed in the context of pension reform. We have already done so by increasing the minimum pension. By removing the distinction in the minimum pension between full-time and part-time careers. As you have seen, this discrimination introduced in the previous legislature has been abolished. I did it directly. The increase in GRAPA benefits many women. In seven months, this is already a positive assessment, but much remains to be done. On the reform of the minimum pension, I would like to correct the following: it was indeed agreed in the government agreement, but there is no mention here of the conditions of 30 years of effective employment as you suggested in your questions. At the moment, my cabinet, together with the Federal Pension Service, is investigating exactly what such a measure might entail. This reflection is part of a broader exercise in which access to the minimum pension is evaluated in the light of solidarity, gender equality and the convergence of the different systems. Then there is the issue of the family dimension. We must have the courage to enter into this discussion. The pension split has been in the government agreement for years. I am working on it, but leave us time: time to carry out reforms that are well-founded and well-founded. The pension split is not just a change: it has far-reaching consequences, both civil, legal, fiscal, social and social. This can't happen soon. The NAR has examined this in an opinion of 14 July 2020 on the distribution of supplementary pension rights after a divorce or the dissolution of a legal cohabitation. In this report, the NAR itself raises many questions about the concrete roll-out of the pension split. In 2014, the Pension Reform Committee 2040 made a simulation of the impact of the pension split on the global pension income. These figures need to be updated, but they contain an interesting analysis which I will not ignore. Social partners are already playing an important role in the split debate and will continue to do so. The debate on the future family dimension of our pensions will be held with them. I think that's fundamental. I am also preparing with the administration a continuous monitoring on the quality of women's pension. We all know the reality, but the data that show it are only partial. We do not have enough data on women's pensions. I now ask my services to carry out this monitoring and to present these figures and these objectivable realities to the public. It is important to conduct a discussion on the basis of concrete, available, objectivable and continuously monitored figures. This is not the case today. I would therefore like to thank you for your attention to the issue of women's pension, and I am convinced or hope that we will be allies in the implementation of the measures I propose for this purpose in the context of pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u7	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I don't understand why you're saying you're waiting for the data. I have just given you these figures on minimum pensions and to what extent women are entitled to them. I am concerned about certain proposals from your pension reform, as it was initially on paper. However, if I hear you now, you seem to be going beyond what you said before. You said in particular that you wanted to deepen the second pillar of pensions. In Germany, this has only strengthened the pension inequality between men and women. The difference is as high as 60%. What I think is okay is that you're open to suggestions. We must not, of course, invent hot water. The gender pension gap is the smallest in Denmark. The way to calculate the statutory pension compensates for the poor income situation there. In Austria, which I dare say has a poor pension system, there is also work to be done on the gender pension gap. They are working on it and have already started three yards and are well on their way to closing the gap. This leads, among other things, to more good employment opportunities for them. The first yard is that of a strong and broad childcare for toddlers. The second yard builds on a complex of all kinds of variants of Elternkarenz (parental leave). The third yard organises part-time parental leave until the child is seven years old, the period of which is equivalent to pension rights. In short, there is still work to achieve more gender equality in pension policy. We will also have to focus on labour market policy, which includes both good and bad aspects. I am thinking of the second pillar of pensions: you know that I am not a fan of it. Examples from other European countries can help us with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u8	Thank you for your answer. Of course, it all seems very simple: the pension split and gender equality. There is still a handicap there, which cannot be eliminated overnight. That's something we've been carrying from the past. Of course, women are particularly affected. Helping wives facing divorce are the biggest victims. It's a good thing you're studying this. You haven't shown the back of your tongue yet, but I understand that in the context of the studies that are available. I notice that you are looking at the recommendations of the NAR, at what the Pensien Reforms Committee proposed at the time and at the social partners. You'll also involve your services. Perhaps you can also put your ear to listen to the academic world, for a useful approach. I did not expect a specific answer from you, but this subject has recently been discussed in the topical and urgent debate, hence our questions on this subject. However, I would ask you not to resort to instant measures, but to work towards a constructive solution to this problem which is directed towards the future and which, of course, must not be forgotten about the affordability of this exercise as a whole. Otherwise, no one will be served by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u9	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased to note that, like us, you are concerned about the gender gap that exists and also about pensions. This gap does indeed have the different careers as a cause or employment in less well-paid sectors, regardless of the fact that women work part-time more often. We all know that we can only achieve a balanced distribution of pensions if we work in all these areas at the same time. We need to ensure good childcare, as well as the inclusion of leave schemes by as many men as women, as well as the remuneration in certain sectors. So there are many yards that need to be dealt with at the same time. Nevertheless, we also know that, in the area of pensions, we can also correct gender inequality in part, including through the pension split. Following a judgment, the NAR investigated the pension split, but only for supplementary pensions. We propose that the pension split be made for both statutory and supplementary pensions. That was also agreed in the coalition agreement. I understand that this needs to be studied in depth, but that is why we have already sent out the signal through our legislative proposal and through our resolution that we want to do something about it. I also hope that you will ask the NAR or the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IGVM) or your administration very specifically to calculate that pension split, so that we know what we need to take into account when implementing it. For in our view we must continue to do so, so that we can achieve it in this reign, and not in five years' time. So you can count on our support. For this to happen, we will have to start or continue studies in the short term, because we do not yet have all the data we need. Can you request this additional information already: at the NAR, at the IGVM, at your administration? Can we then have a dialogue on this in this committee, for example in June, and then see what direction we can take with the pension reform? We assume that you will include this in the pension reform, either through draft laws or through our bill, as long as it is implemented. In us you will surely find a partner to join that road. Because we cannot afford to punish women for the choices they make together with their husband or partner, by getting more than a third less pension, which makes it worse than the European average. I do not think that we should be among the worse students in the European classroom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u10	Mr Moyaers asked to be excused because he is on another committee. He may ask his question later. Otherwise, he will turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u11	Mrs. Samyn hasn't arrived yet, so maybe she'll take part in the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u12	Articles 60 and 61 form part of the powers that have been transferred to federated entities since 1 July 2014 following the sixth reform of the State. They have become fully competent for the legislation on activation and its financing. That being said, I have learned very well of the practices of some CPAS organising trial periods, as you say, outside employment contracts via PIIS or RIS in the form of voluntary activity. The SPP Social Integration is currently examining whether these practices are in conformity with the law. The item will be discussed in a forthcoming consultation between the SPP Integration and the CPAS federations. I will not fail to intervene if necessary and indeed, if these practices are considered illegal in relation to the articles. But again, it is a regional competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u13	Thank you for being attentive to these questions, minister. The following question deals with the same dynamics, i.e. an interpretation of CPAS in cultural practices, etc. This is the future evaluation of ISIPs; at that time, it is likely that it will be time to consider harmonisation. Indeed, I do not finish receiving such testimonies showing an interpretation; once again, these are the federated entities. But my colleagues in the federated entities are asking the same questions so that we can harmonize our thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u14	Madam President, the purpose of a social inquiry is to gain a better understanding of the applicant's living conditions and state of need, without interference with his privacy or intrusive control. It must be able to identify the needs that must be met in order to enable the person to live in accordance with human dignity. In this context, the social worker also asks third parties. He consults, for example, the flows of the Social Security Square Bank and he can contact various bodies or other professionals, such as the ONEM, the CPAS, a psychologist, a notary, a bailiff. Any contact with an owner falls within this framework. It allows social workers to better intervene in cases of rent debts, in particular, or in expulsion proceedings. By contacting the owner directly, some disputes about rent can be avoided. This is not a breach of privacy or professional secrecy, as the information requested is well within the scope of the social investigation. The social worker is himself bound, as you know, to professional secrecy. The SPP Social Integration follows the situation on the ground and the NSC's recommendations closely. It goes without saying that the usual home visits can resume as soon as the health situation permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is therefore a question of possibly being able to appeal to the owner in the context of negotiations, of reflections on over-indebtedness for example, but – I imagine – in no case to know what is happening or what is the living situation of the beneficiaries of social integration income, or of the issue of cohabitation for example, and of such mechanisms. We agree that, legitimately, homeowners do not have to answer questions about cohabitation and comings and goings that they might observe in their tenants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u16	Mrs Leroy, the Conseil Supérieur des Finances does not fall within my competence. I therefore invite you to address questions 1 and 2 to the Minister of Finance where you are asking for the full note. I am not the one who can broadcast it, especially since it is a note that has not yet been validated by the Council as a whole. As far as the third question is concerned, as I was able to tell you and your colleagues, the second pillar will be an integral part of pension reform. The aim is, moreover, enshrined in the government agreement to generalise it but also in parallel to make it more equitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand that discussions are expected in a few weeks or months and that it is indeed difficult to get into the heart of the matter at this time. With regard to this note from the Conseil Supérieur des Finances, I thank you for your valuable advice. I will then ask the Minister of Finance. Indeed, it is a complicated and difficult passage to understand since Parliament. It is not easy to identify the documents, some being working bases or others being already more engaged in reflection. As a result, and this can be understood, it sometimes makes people who are interested in this reform a bit vibrate and treacherous.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u18	Madam Minister, I have already asked you how you see the reform by September. The whole of the reform is important to me, with a balance between the increase in minimum pensions, of course, because that is what the government agreement says, and the broadening of the second pillar, which is also contained in the government agreement. Attention to both is important. Moreover, for young people too, the second pillar is interesting, because anything that can help to build up the pension at the end of the journey is important for the standard of living, which is all the more important if we live longer and longer. We're a few months later now. Madam Minister, how do you see the reform of the second pillar in the light of your global pension reform? How's the meeting going and what's the timetable? What role do the social partners play or are you not ready to play? Employees who build a supplementary pension through their employer are entitled to a guaranteed return of an average of 1.75%. It is the employer who must match the difference if that return is not achieved at the time when an employee changes employer or retires. However, the low interest rate, which we welcome because of our large public debt, is a risk for employers. How do you take that into account in your reform? In short, how will you increase the attractiveness of the second pillar for both employers and employees? The government agreement also states that solidarity between the highest pensions and lower pensions will be strengthened, but you also recently mentioned solidarity in the second pillar. How do you see that? What measures are you preparing for this? I hope that you do not have higher tax burdens on the higher supplementary pensions in mind, because that would be counterproductive for confidence, a word that you have often used in your policy paper. That would be a bad thing. How will you strengthen solidarity across the pillars? So much for my many questions, Madam Secretary. I am waiting impatiently for the month of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u19	Mrs. De Block, I'm glad I reassured you. That was necessary, not only for you, but I repeat it here: the article in the press was completely wrong; the increase in minimum pensions will not be paid with the supplementary pension of the employees. No way. In structural reform, I will, of course, pay the necessary attention to supplementary pensions. The coalition agreement is clear on this. The social partners are on the move. They will have to subtract the challenges of generalization to 3% of gross wages and of harmonization between workers and servants. In addition to the generalisation of the supplementary pension, there is also a need for solidarity between the highest and the lowest pensions. The Court of Auditors said: "The current government policy on supplementary pensions leads to an uneven situation and does not achieve the objective. The objective is to provide a very large number of beneficiaries with a balanced complement to their statutory pension." As far as the guarantee of return is concerned, I would nevertheless urge that supplementary pensions be provided with security. The guarantee of return is a necessity for workers if they are asked to set aside part of their purchasing power today for the future. If that purchasing power is not kept at least, there is no point. That seems obvious to me. As the government agreement indicates, we will examine how we can avoid over-payment of pension contributions to costs. Finally, as far as solidarity is concerned, I, together with the other relevant ministers, will focus on excesses and control possibilities. No, we will not increase taxes for those who provide a good pension income; I repeat, we will focus on excesses. I am very much in favour of good pension protection for every citizen, for some, such as statutory officials, only through the statutory pension, for others through the statutory and supplementary pensions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u20	Madam Secretary, you are merely repeating your earlier statement and not letting it look into your cards. It is important to maintain citizens' confidence, because there is concern about the issue, including among younger people. One wonders whether it makes sense to pay for a supplementary pension. As you said, part of the income is now being set aside to compensate for the later sensitive decline in income. You said that civil servants can only count on the first pillar, and that is true. However, we must add that civil servants' pensions are usually on the upper side. So that group isn't the hardest. That is also their own statute and I have no further comment on it. For example, we have invested ourselves in the second pillar for the self-employed nurses and we see that this is working. Many other groups could make use of this to safeguard a good standard of living during the retirement period, when this also occurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u21	Mrs Thémont, child poverty in Belgium must challenge us at the highest level. Starting your life by being directly confronted with inequalities and deprivation, unjustly penalizes many life paths and potentiality. The crisis has further reinforced these inequalities, affecting our youngest citizens: small housing, the digital divide, dropping out of school, domestic violence, loss of parents' income, etc. Precarized children today must not become tomorrow's young people or poor adults. I repeat this every time, but I think it is an objective shared by all. I refuse to be fatal. I am convinced that there is no expenditure on children, but there are only investments. All public authorities must mobilize resources. We cannot work in isolation. Nor can our approach to poverty be. Combating child poverty is first and foremost the fight against parental poverty, while, of course, maintaining specific actions towards children such as education, early childhood care, etc. The increase in social minimums is of course a step in this direction. Pilot projects such as MIRIAM, which accompanied single mothers for one year, also benefit children. As a reminder, I want to make this structural project. As you know, I am currently working on a future federal plan to combat poverty. It will logically cover the problem of child poverty, actions in this area, and European objectives. In particular, I plan a strong focus on early detection of the risks of poverty reversal and the introduction of tailor-made accompanying routes. All social protection bodies and associations must provide support. It is a matter of fast and effective action. This approach will be more likely to be successful if it is based on good collaboration and cooperation with federated entities with many skills in the field. I intend to work with colleagues from the Communities and the Regions in an interdepartmental conference. I also plan meetings in the field. I have recently been able to discuss his findings with Bernard Devos, General Delegate for the Rights of the Child, and I will do the same with the Dutch-speaking delegate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u22	Minister, thank you for your full answer. For a child, as you said, poverty is not only a lack of money, but above all a lack of opportunities to experience things, to open up their future. This poverty among younger people is likely to affect their entire lives. As you said, it is in an attempt to prevent it that it is important to establish regular consultation with the different levels of power. I also asked you about the MIRIAM project and you also said that you wanted to make it structural. This is very good because it is often intended for single-parent families and therefore for women. I congratulate you on your various daily activities and your meetings on the ground because this role is essential, in any case in a minister, what I wanted to emphasize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u23	Madam Minister, the fact that there are still homeless people in our society is actually unacceptable. Unfortunately, the existing initiatives to remedy this do not seem to make a fundamental contribution to a structural solution to the problem. The size of the problem is still underestimated. In Ghent, the OCMW estimated at the end of 2018 that there were 450 homeless people. This figure was adjusted at the beginning of 2020 to between 250 and 1,000 people. In October 2020 the figures of 1,400 homeless people who had taken advantage of night care were published. Unfortunately, from a very recent study for the city of Ghent, these figures were still high, namely 1,472 homeless people with 401 homeless children under the age of 18. The figures for the province of Limburg and the cities of Aarlen and Liège are equally dramatic. Madam Secretary, I have some questions for you. Do you have an estimate of the number of homeless people in Belgium and the number of children in this situation? What coordinating function do you have in your capacity as Minister in the problem, in which the Regions and the cities and municipalities must also play a role? What initiatives will you take to solve the problem, especially the totally unacceptable phenomenon of homeless children?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u24	Madam Secretary, I have a similar question. At the end of October 2020, researchers from LUCAS KULeuven and the University of Liège counted persons who are in a situation of homelessness in the province of Limburg and in the cities of Ghent, Aarlen and Liège. The numbers represent a very important impulse in mapping the homeless population across Belgium. The King Baudouin Foundation also worked out a roadmap with the participating cities and municipalities, which can be used anywhere in our country. The results of the censuses were published in February 2020 for Leuven and for Brussels in November 2020. They're disturbing. We are indeed seeing an increase, no matter what the previous questioner gave us. In Ghent 401 children were counted. The researchers and the other partners call on our governments to develop a top-level plan to tackle homelessness and homelessness. In the policy paper, you also propose an update of the cooperation agreement on homelessness between the federal government, the Communities and the Regions. In this new agreement, you also want to make the development of the Housing First programmes a priority throughout the country. A first meeting on the cooperation agreement would take place by the end of the first quarter of 2021. That is why I had the following questions. Has there been a meeting on the updating of the cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness? If yes, what is the result? If not, when is the meeting scheduled? When can we expect the new inter-federal plan against homelessness? What is your view on Housing First? Which specific target group is eligible? How many Housing First projects are currently active in Belgium? Can you give an update on the current Housing First projects in Belgium? What's the success rate? What does the new social experiment of the Housing First LAB involve for the social reconnection of users through the development of new methodologies? How's it going?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 11 March 2021 a report by the King Baudouin Foundation was published with the results of the homeless count in a number of cities, including in the province of Limburg. I think it is a great achievement of the report that we also see that people who live on the streets are just the tip of the iceberg. There are many people who stay with friends or family, or in non-conventional spaces such as garages and caravans. Therefore, it is certainly a great merit that the King Baudouin Foundation has taken the broad definition to map homelessness and rooflessness. There were indeed nearly 10,000 people counted in the cities and provinces. Similar censuses were also carried out in Brussels and Leuven with the same poignant figures. We can also generally say that there is a rejuvenation, a femininity and a discoloration of the population. It is all about human dramas that are unworthy of our prosperous country. We are therefore very pleased to read in your policy statement and in the coalition agreement that you wish to join in the fight. I have a number of specific questions about this. My first question concerns the partnership between the federal government and the Communities and the regions in the fight against homelessness. That will be updated. What is the status of this update? In the aftermath of the debate, including in my city of Ghent and in the Flemish Parliament, we notice that there is uncertainty as to who is responsible for monitoring and counting. We think the count is crucial. Measuring is knowing. For example, we have data to be able to implement a strong policy. That is why I think it is important, when the cooperation agreement is next updated, to clarify who is responsible for the censuses, how they happen and who is responsible for the costs of the censuses. We can't move the blackbird anymore. That's my first question. My next question is indeed about Housing First. There used to be the experiment. Now it is a competence of the Regions. We still have the Housing First LAB on the federal level. The coalition agreement shows that you want to make a clear commitment to this. I'm very glad that Housing First's map is drawn so quickly. What competences around Housing First are still federal? What exactly does the Housing First LAB do? What resources are allocated to it? What exactly does the ambitious increase in the number of routes according to the Housing First principle mean in the coalition agreement? How are we gonna set that up? My next question is about the reference address. That is not the solution to the problem, but it is an essential emergency solution. A reference address ensures that people can still recognise their rights, that they can ask legal questions and so on. However, there are many possibilities for interpretation in practice. There are OMCWs who are doing just about everything they can not take responsibility for that reference address. Even if everything goes smoothly and OMCWs assume their responsibilities, there is still room for improvement in terms of safeguarding the social rights of those concerned. In your policy statement, you state that you will work on strengthening the reference address and standardising its use in the OMCWs. We read that same ambition in your policy paper. You say that together with the Minister of the Interior, but also with various partners, such as associations in the field, OCMWs and municipalities, you will work to improve the effectiveness of the reference address from the point of view of the conditions and the job definition between the different actors. That's very important. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of this ambition? Has there been any consultation with the various actors? In addition to strengthening the reference address, do you see other ways of better guaranteeing the social rights of homeless people, in the sense that access to these rights becomes less dependent on registration in the population registers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u26	Minister, in Belgium, homelessness remains a major societal issue, characterising one of the most extreme forms of social exclusion. The fight against this phenomenon calls for cross-cutting action, involving several public policies and levels of power. On the basis of this finding, in 2014, a cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness was signed between the federal and federal levels. This agreement provided greater clarity as to the tasks of each level of authority. Minister, in order to reduce structurally the number of people affected by homelessness and the absence of a home, the collective efforts undertaken in recent years should be significantly increased. In this sense, is it envisaged to update the cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness? At present, the overall data on the extent of homelessness and the absence of homelessness in Belgium remain insufficient, although they are essential for the development of a joint and effective action plan against this phenomenon. Do you intend to propose a common methodological framework for enumeration for the whole of Belgium, which would allow comparable data to be obtained on a regular basis? Finally, what about the sustainability of innovative actions such as Housing First?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the number of homeless people is very worrying. This is not acceptable, especially for the children who live on the streets. Mrs Samyn, for the precise figures, I refer to my answer to the written question on the same subject. The government agreement states that we will update the cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness. This will be a priority objective of the new federal poverty plan. This requires a coordinated approach to all levels of power. That is why I will be working with all the relevant ministers in the framework of a CIM. It is therefore together that we will adapt the cooperation agreement again this year. The preparatory work for this consultation with the actors in the field has begun. The issue was placed on the agenda of the meeting that I organized with the CPAS of the country's five major cities, where the problem is the most serious, and Minister Meyriame Kitir in charge of the Policy of the Big Cities. On this occasion, we discussed the findings, analyses and needs in this area. Monitoring the situation of homeless people is a shared responsibility of all levels of policy. The Cooperation Agreement regulates the exchange of data and has entrusted the Support Centre for Combating Poverty, Insecurity and Social Exclusion with the collection and harmonisation of data. It would be interesting if this service would take over the work done by the King Baudouin Foundation. With regard to the reference address, the Internal FPS will have, in the coming weeks, a valuable indicator, an updated statistic of homeless persons registered in the reference address. This specific code will allow for better monitoring, which is currently under way. I will take this opportunity to consult with my colleague the Minister of the Interior and our respective administrations with a view to drawing up a joint circular and sending it to the municipalities and CPAS in order to clarify and harmonise the conditions for granting the reference address for homeless people. You know that the ping-pong parties follow each other between the municipalities so as not to register homeless people as a reference address. In response to the urgency of my proposal, Kern decided on 12 February to release the necessary means to extend the emergency accommodation until the end of June 2021. But that will not be enough, we know. We need to work on long-term structural solutions such as Housing First. For example, yesterday I was still visiting two women's centres and a women's and children's centre. Indeed, the goal is to move from the emergency situation to the community home, the Housing First, to housing. It's a trajectory. These are great experiences that the SAMU Social in Brussels is building today. Housing First is an innovative model for relocating chronic homeless people who are particularly fragile. This model has proven its worth: maintaining housing, improving the state of physical and mental health, social inclusion and better self-esteem. In addition, it is the most cost-effective model. It's much better than emergency solutions. Currently, such programmes run in 18 cities. On 1 October 2020 855 homeless people were rehoused, with a success rate of 86 percent. Employees in the field are faced with various challenges to reconnect homeless people with society. The Housing First LAB coordinates a social experiment to develop new practices. That experiment runs until 31 December 2021 and is funded by the National Lottery. Seven cities were selected: Brussels, Kortrijk, Ghent, Hasselt, Charleroi, Liège and Namur. The almost 100 participants are accompanied individually and collectively. The experiment will be evaluated by UCL, KU Leuven and ULB by the end of 2021. It is in fact the Regions which finance mainly the Housing First schemes. However, in order to ensure qualitative development, Housing First LAB ensures the dissemination of objectives and good practices. The challenge is twofold: to increase the number of trajectories and to ensure the quality of the model. I want to increase the number of Housing First trajectories. I also want to support innovative projects with regard to chronic homeless women. That's why I visited the centres yesterday. At present, various possibilities are being explored, including through a grant from the National Lottery. Discussions are under way, in particular with my colleague Sammy Mahdi, who is also very interested in the problem and in increased support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u28	Madam Minister, in Belgium, about 15% of children are growing up in poverty. That figure rises every year. The covid situation does not do that right either. The fact that poverty has taken extreme forms in recent years is demonstrated by the hallucinatory figures I referred to, especially as regards the number of homeless children. It is unworthy of a welfare state to have children on the streets in Belgium. I hope for a short-term initiative on this. Together with the Regions and the competent authorities, you are looking for solutions, because it is a shared responsibility. You are also working on a poverty plan and will provide additional resources for emergency care. Every day a child is homeless is one day too many. They deserve absolute priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u29	Madam Minister, it is good that you are talking to the partners on the ground so that we can give a first start. Homelessness is one of the most poignant and extreme forms of social exclusion. The right to housing is a human right and, as a prosperous society, we cannot tolerate it. The needs are great, the challenges are also very great. It is very important that all governments are in the same direction: the Communities, the Regions, the cities and the municipalities. I would also like to say that it would be very useful for the biennial count of homeless people to be repeated. I also heard that the figures show that there are a lot of homeless people suffering from psychological problems in the province of Limburg, for example. Cooperation with mental health care and with the special youth care of the Communities could be particularly useful in this area, because many young people are also involved. We are also, of course, looking forward to updating the cooperation agreement and the new inter-federal plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your commitment, especially for that concerning Housing First. I wish you every success in that. After all, that is a wonderful concept, with a very good cost-benefit analysis and excellent results. You mentioned 86 %, a very nice figure. I can also see in my own city that it works incredibly well when people first have a roof over their head and then continue to use it on other areas of life. That just works. I wish you every success with the supporting role of the Housing First LAB in the increasing number of routes. I have looked again at the previous cooperation agreement and I find the division of powers mentioned in it rather unclear. In the next agreement, this distribution needs to be made much clearer so that what needs to be done also happens effectively without the different authorities looking at each other. The support point that could continue the work of the KBS is a very valuable option. However, you must make sure that this time it is clear for the coming years. The circular relating to the reference address is very important, the OCMWs must assume their responsibility. It will be necessary to ensure that they all do so effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u31	Minister, thank you for your full answer. Cross-cutting collaboration between the various actors in the fight against homelessness helps to set priorities and defend common projects. Good collaboration is absolutely necessary between bodies depending on the different levels of power, so that the health and personal assistance sectors can address individual situations globally and cross-cuttingly. I am pleased to hear that your priority objective is to update this cooperation agreement by the end of the year. Finally, I would like to bounce back on the question of Housing First. As you pointed out, we need to work in the long term. That seems to me a good solution. In my view, social reintegration also requires decent housing. Indeed, it is a first condition to resume a normal path, I want to say, that anyone would deserve to find.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u32	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question, following the statement made in the press by Minister Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u33	I would like to quote a part of his answer to the question whether he himself will set a good example by not advocating new measures in the context of the pension reform: "What we still want is a better connection with work, which best rewards those who have worked for a long time. That is something we are going to insist on. But not necessarily in the form of a pension bonus – a measure that is nevertheless in the government agreement, we point out to him. We are going to talk about it, but we must ask ourselves the question of the cost-benefit of the measures to be taken. If the bonus was removed in 2015, it was because its effectiveness was considered to be relatively low. I am not saying that we are not going to do this, but that we will have to assess the budgetary impact."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u34	Mr Van der Donkt, the pension bonus, introduced in 2007 and abolished in 2015 by the previous government, is part of the government agreement. The intention is to re-introduce it for all employees. The pension bonus is an essential part of the reform that we need to implement in order to support social security. It is a positive measure to contribute to encouraging employment and achieving the employment rate of 80% by 2030. I will not comment on my colleague's comment, but several studies show its effectiveness and a consensus was found between the government's partners, the majority, on its reintegration. There's no way I'm going to come back to this. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is essential to strengthen citizens' confidence in our pension system. This is the goal I set myself. That is why I call on everyone to be careful about the effects of announcements that do not contribute to the development of a serene area for social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u35	Madam Secretary, if you do not go into the views of your colleague, Mr Clarinval, Minister of Pensions, but for self-employed people, I do understand one thing. But I had also asked about the state of play on the reform proposals. You are saying that the pension bonus is intended to be re-established. In what form will this happen? Will this be taken into account in the overall reform process, which we hope will receive some more news by September 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u36	Very fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u37	Very soon? Before September? No? You could have surprised us. I look forward to it. You know why it was taken away in 2015. It wasn't efficient. You say that you now have studies that say it would be a good thing. So I'm curious and looking forward to it. But I also note that you do not clearly distance yourself from the statements made by Minister Clarinval. In the future it will also be clear to what extent this will be true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u38	Question No 55016302C by Mrs Ellen Samyn is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u39	This is a follow-up question, so I refer to my written oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u40	"As far as the second pension pillar is concerned, it remains an objective to generalise it further" is reflected in the government agreement. In addition, a number of reforms would be implemented in the second pension pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u41	For the purposes of applying the RIZIV and solidarity contributions to pensions, supplementary pension capitals shall be converted into a fictitious interest rate. I don't want to question that M.O. For the application of social contributions, account shall be taken of the total number of pensions, legal and supplementary, which is logical. This is only possible if one-off capitals are translated into a monthly pension. The way in which fictitious interest rates are calculated must be fair. As I said earlier in this committee, that fairness is not guaranteed today. I also referred to the work of the Sigedis guidance committee. This work has not yet been formally completed, but the analyses presented there confirm the problem. Firstly, in the field of supplementary pensions, many different coefficients are used, depending on the applicable legislation, which is not good for transparency. Secondly, it appears that the underlying assumptions for some coefficients are outdated. I therefore intend to reform the system of fictitious interest rates. The system must become more just. We will do so by revising the outdated hypotheses, but also by reducing the number of threshold effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u42	Madam Minister, I also intended to raise this problem and to change it. In reply to my previous question on this, you referred to the Sigedis guidance committee. Although this committee is not yet fully ready, you say that the criteria are outdated and that the system is not transparent. It must therefore be reformed. I am reassured that you will reform it. Now I hope that this can happen fairly quickly, that this reform can take place in the short term so that people do not suffer. For many people, it is currently inexplicable why the coefficient is so high. I hope that this will be settled in the short term, at the latest against the pension reform in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u43	We must implement a global reform and not a reform (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u44	I would be happy to be patient for a few months if that is indeed part of the pension reform in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u45	Madam President, Minister, the current system does indeed provide a great deal of additional administration. It is a good thing that this has also got through to the government and yourself and that you are now working on a reform so that the interest rates used are less distant from reality. I would like to know what reforms that will be. It makes sense for you to include this in the global pension reform you are planning by September. I hope, therefore, that you will provide for an overall regulation on the 80% effectiveness, because that is undoubtedly linked to that. As far as that is concerned, we're a little hungry. One hangs on the other and one will not be able to do without the other. So there's a lot going on in September. I hope that after the recess we will be well equipped to discuss and work out all that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u46	I do feel that September is going to be exciting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u47	As already indicated in February 2021, the FPD's working methods and the calculation of associated pensions are fully compliant with the legislation. The origin of the difference in treatment lies in the calculation of the redundancy allowance. I informed my colleague, Mr Dermagne, of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u48	Madam Minister, let me now turn to Mr Dermagne for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u49	Mrs Lanjri, the Federal Pension Service is already in contact with the French Caisse d'assurance retreat et de santé au travail for the electronic exchange of death dates via the Bilateral Exchange of BEX system. So the problem is well known and is certainly being followed up. The pension service is committed to linking French and Belgian data and identifying as many pensioners as possible. The FPD is also campaigning to collect the French national register numbers and send fewer life certificates on paper to the retired Belgians who live in France. The pensioners who receive both a Belgian and a French pension will therefore also benefit from this campaign. It is now up to France to do the same for about 10% of pensioners who are not found in the consultation. The FPD has contacted the CNAV and CARSAT with the demand for plans to improve the interconnection of French and Belgian data. An interesting slope for pensioners who still receive proof of life on paper is the electronic exchange of social security data and the IT system that helps social security institutions in the European Union to exchange information on deaths, for example. However, this is an individual exchange, while the BEX system works with mass data. Moreover, France does not yet use the EESSI system, although the use of EESSI will become mandatory for all European countries from the end of 2022. The pension service therefore calls for the exchange via BEX between France and Belgium to be optimised as envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is indeed vengeful that a frontier worker who has worked in France has to prove every year that he is still alive. That's very frustrating. The question is whether we cannot evolve towards an automatic exchange of data between the various pension services, whereby the French pension service addresses the demand for our pension service, since we do have the data on our residents. That's how Germany works. I am pleased that this is being worked on and that the exchange will take place automatically by 2022 at the latest. Then there would be a European system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u51	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u52	At present, the data between Germany and France are already being exchanged in this way. It is good that there will be a European system for the exchange of information, but you cannot, pending that, ask the French pension service to turn to the Belgian pension service and no longer to the individual. This is very difficult, especially for those who are not familiar with such electronic data, they need to look up, scan and transmit electronically. If they have to do that on paper, things sometimes go wrong. I urge you to develop such a system of data exchange between the two pension services of France and Belgium, so that a problem has already been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u53	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, in recent years mypension.be has become the reference application in the field of pensions. When developing the online pension file, it was first focused on giving citizens an insight into their personal pension rights in the area of statutory and supplementary pensions. Today the focus is shifting towards making it possible to proactively plan one's own career and its impact on one's own retirement pension. The area of the survivor's pension has not yet been deepened. Citizens who receive a survivor's pension will receive an overview of their pension payments. Citizens with death insurance in a supplementary pension can also consult this. Mypension.be does not, however, show the potential rights to a survivor's pension, either to the legal matrimonial partners or to the right holders. At the time of launching the estimate of the pension amount, however, it was explicitly chosen to give citizens who received a survivor's pension access to the estimate of retirement pensions. Its own retirement pension is always paid, at the latest at the statutory retirement age, and is supplemented by part of the survivor's pension within the cumulative limits. However, as you rightly point out, the information on mypension.be does not take into account any possible cumulation with the survivor's pension today. Question from the pension institutions tells me that this extension cannot yet be planned by the complexity of the operation, namely the extension of the estimation modules to take account of the different cumulation rules in the three pension systems for employees, civil servants and self-employed persons. Moreover, enlargement is not possible today because the necessary computer building blocks have not yet been completed. As a first step, I will therefore ask the pension institutions to examine how communication on mypension.be can be made clearer, so that the citizen with a survivor's pension in payment is aware that the estimate of the retirement pension does not take this into account. The same applies to the simulation of career choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u54	Madam Minister, it is a pity that it is not possible to do so today. Apparently, that's technically difficult. Two things have to be done. On the website mypension.be it should be made clear that for the time being these data do not take into account the survivor's pension they receive, the accumulated benefit for that purpose, and that one should be careful about that. Perhaps a telephone number, a service to be contacted or an e-mail address can be added so that people with individual questions can ask them immediately, if that information cannot be found on the website? At the moment someone loses a partner, he or she gets the communication from the government about the survivor's pension. In that letter, that communication can also be made. I would not only give this information on mypension.be, but at the same time on the letter. It should be noted that not all data can yet be found on the website, and that they should take this into account. People need to know that they have to be careful, for example, with what they can accumulate, with what they can earn if they still work, and so on. This is a suggestion pending further digitisation. It's gotta be somewhere. The government knows everything about all citizens and yet we are unable to announce that everyone can consult it through mypension.be and the identity card. That's an intermediate solution for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, for people who were detained before 30 November 2017, temporary or contractual public service services performed before their permanent appointment may count for their civil servants' pensions. Benefits provided as a contract staff member at Proximus, formerly Belgacom, therefore count for civil servants who are permanently appointed to another government for their civil servants' pensions. What about the services provided at the time to the original Proximus, such as Belgacom Mobile, the subsidiary of Belgacom? Are they also eligible to be counted for the civil servants' pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u56	Mrs Lanjri, two conditions must be met. The first condition is that these contractual services must be paid from the same source of financing as the services of the permanent staff of that public employer. The second condition is that the staff member must, during the performance of these services, hold a degree in which a permanent appointment is possible, in accordance with the statute applicable at that time to his public employer. The information obtained by my services shows that Belgacom Mobile NV was a separate legal entity with its own legal personality, i.e. separate from Belgacom's own legal personality. Unlike Belgacom, Belgacom Mobile NV did not have any status that provided for permanent appointment of staff. Belgacom Mobile NV therefore only employed contractual staff, paid by Belgacom Mobile itself. As a result, contractual services provided at Belgacom Mobile NV cannot meet the conditions imposed by the employer. The services provided by Belgacom Mobile NV are therefore not eligible for the civil servants' pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u57	Madam Secretary, it was a complex answer, which amounts to no. The performance therefore does not count, because two conditions are apparently not fulfilled. We will pass it on to those concerned, who will, of course, be disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u58	(...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u59	The answer will be the same, whether I ask you or Mrs De Sutter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u60	I think so, too. It is, of course, a pity for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u61	Madam President, the Law of 7 May 2020 on exceptional measures in the context of the covid pandemic provides for an authorisation for the King to extend the measures provided for in Article 6. The King has done this three times. The period currently runs until 30 June 2021. This last extension was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 27 April 2021. A further extension beyond 30 June 2021 has not yet been decided. This will depend on the further evolution of the covid pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, we are still waiting for a decision to be taken by the Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u63	It is the Council of Ministers that has to make this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u64	The Council of Ministers can therefore decide to extend it. When will we know?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u66	Mrs. Vanpeborgh is not present. His question No 55016714C is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u67	Madam President, Minister, reception parents take on a very important role in our society. They take care of the little ones, give them a good time and stimulate their development. I am therefore very pleased that this government wants to improve its status to make the profession more attractive. We await the evaluation that your colleague Mr Vandenbroucke would complete this spring. The problems of the past have, of course, not been solved by any revision of the current statute. Accommodation parents who performed this function before 2003, the year in which the sui generis status was introduced, could not build up individual pension rights for the years preceding 2003. For example, older reception parents who have largely pursued their profession for that year and are now approaching retirement age are hard hit. That is very unfair, because these people have worked hard all these years and deserve a corresponding pension. Madam Minister, is there any trace of the career ahead of 2003 of the listed reception parents in the pension service, or in other services such as a recognised reception parent service? If so, do you think it is necessary to correct on the basis of this registration so that these years are included in the calculation of the pension? In fact, these years should also be taken into account in the calculation of the number of years worked. People contact me not so much because of the amount of their pension, but rather because of the question of whether they can retire. They just want these years to count separately from the payout itself. If those benefits cannot be proved by this method, do you consider it desirable that the benefits can be proved by all means of law, including the honour certificate, to prove otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u68	Madam Minister, you said earlier in the answer to my other question that reception parents play a very important role. However, we can already see that they often also receive a limited pension. The problem is getting worse because the years they have worked for the 2003 scheme do not count. They do not build up individual pension rights for that period. As a result, they often receive an incomplete and small pension. However, they play a very important role. They ensure that the children are cared for and develop. They give parents the opportunity to work and develop. Reception parents definitely deserve the opportunity to be fully protected and to build up full pension rights, including for the years before 2003. By the way, I have tabled a legislative proposal to allow the years before 2003 to be taken into account for pension-building. We also included this in the coalition agreement. The sui generis status would be evaluated effectively. We will, of course, include the problem of pensions in this evaluation. That was our intention when we put it in the coalition agreement. We have a legislative proposal, but have you yourself taken initiatives to improve the situation of reception parents' pension rights by 2003? If so, how would you do that? If not, why hasn't anything been done about it? Did you also participate in the evaluation carried out by Mr Vandenbroucke to evaluate the status of reception parents, in view of what is important to you, namely the pension? Will the pension rights of reception parents also be reviewed after the ongoing evaluation? Will that happen before the summer recess? Will we be able to debate this in Parliament next month, for example, or will we know in what direction we can change it? Hopefully this will be in the direction of taking into account all the years worked for 2003 that can be proven. Other slopes are also possible. Some people also talked about buying off those years. Our proposal is that the years they have worked can be counted anyway. Can we do that before the recess or do you include this in the global pension reform of the autumn? This will eventually become a boat where everything will be charged and it will sink. Perhaps it is not bad to prepare and test at least a number of aspects in Parliament. You already have the support of Green and CD&V to offer these reception parents a solution. The other political groups that have negotiated the coalition agreement are also involved in this. After all, the coalition agreement clearly states that we must find a solution for those welcome parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u69	Accommodation parents, affiliated to the Child and Family Service, have had sui generis status since 2003. Accommodation parents who were active for 2003 worked with some kind of cost compensation. They were excluded from social security, so they could not be traced in the career records kept at Sigedis. So we have no sign of the years they have worked before the year 2003. The government agreement states that the sui generis status of reception parents will be evaluated. This evaluation will be launched today, in cooperation with my colleagues, Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Dermagne. The social partners are once again a core partner in this evaluation. So I must also wait for my two colleagues. I'm not doing this alone. It would be premature to anticipate the conclusion now, but I can assure you, Mrs Willaert and Mrs Lanjri, that we are examining all possible avenues to address the gaps that exist in order to better support reception parents and their social status. Their role is essential. An equal society between men and women is also an important issue. You know my struggle for strong social protection for all our citizens and especially for women. So we have to wait a little bit, including Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u70	Madam President, Minister, I understand that we have to wait. We will certainly not fail to ask those questions to your colleagues. We have already done so. I would like to repeat Mr Lanjri's plea as a reply and support. Improving the sui generis status is one thing, but looking at the past and trying to correct things from the past, in the interests of those people, is probably even more difficult, but it is important that this is part of it. It is about the payment of the pension, but in many cases it is also about women who are wondering whether they really have to work until that year, because the previous years do not count, because they were just welcome mother. I'm being contacted about this rather than about the fact that people want a decent pension for those years. That really shows the desperation of those women. I therefore ask you to take this with you as far as possible. It will not be easy, but I hope you will be able to look at what we can do for these women as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u71	Madam President, Minister, every week I receive emails from reception parents who ask about their pension and why the years they have worked have not been idle, not been unemployed, but have worked as a welcome parent, not being counted. It's poignant. In itself, it is good that a statute was introduced in 2003, but it would be good if the years before it could easily be traced back to the pension. Eventually, those people worked. At that time they also contributed to solidarity, albeit in a different way. They've taken care of our children. Perhaps there are people here today in Parliament who were then taken in by a welcome parent. They have made their contribution. It is important for us to be able to regularise and count these years in one way or another. Otherwise, this will mean that some of these reception parents will end up in the system of income guarantee for the elderly because they are not making ends meet. It may also be that they are going to see what we were talking about earlier, namely the gender pension gap, that men do have a decent pension, but that women deserve a lot less because there was no status for reception parents at the time. Especially with older reception parents this will then be the case. I really hope that you will help us to deal with this problem. I know that you are very keen on equal opportunities for men and women. We really need to do the same. We have tabled a proposal on this subject. I invite you to look into that and take it with you in your reform. Either you include our proposal in your draft law, or we will deal with it ourselves in Parliament, as long as it happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u72	Madam Secretary, I have come back to the subject of my question a few times. Don't get me wrong either: I will always support the funding of the OMCWs, but I had the feeling from the beginning that it was too little clear what this EUR 115 million envelope should be used for. This was also apparent from the hearings we held on this subject. Then the president of the POD MI said that the amount of EUR 135 million was added EUR 20 million to... was not based on an analysis of the real needs. We have therefore postponed it. Until 31 December 2021, the funds may be used. We supported this because we felt it would be better to postpone it than to spend the money on the wrong things. I now hear from several OCMW's too, from larger OCMW's, such as Leuven's, that many of those funds are still available. So it's going to be a bad story. We're halfway there now. Do you have any idea to what extent the OMCWs have already used up the funds? How much of the funds allocated has been used in the meantime? Is there a difference between the large cities and smaller municipalities or between the regions in terms of the extent to which the funds have already been used? If you do not see this, do you not think it is desirable that you and the POD MI should have an indication of the speed at which the funds are being used and whether or not they are being used correctly before the end of 2021, so that there can be temporary intervention if something goes wrong? Finally, do you receive complaints from the OMCWs about the grant or its use rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u73	Madam President, Minister, the increasing number of beneficiaries of social integration income reflects the increase in poverty in our country. Between 2014 and 2020, Walloon CPAS saw the number of RIS beneficiaries increase by 50%. The trend is likely to increase as a result of the health crisis. By 2022, the Walloon Federation of CPAS expects an increase in the number of beneficiaries between 15 and 30%. According to the most pessimistic scenario, Wallonia will have 97,500 RIS beneficiaries in 2022. This increase in the number of RIS beneficiaries is accompanied by a higher workload for social workers. Over the past 20 years, the number of cases handled by the Walloon CPAS has doubled, while the number of staff has increased by only 2.2%. This sometimes leads to critical situations such as the Schaarbeek CPAS where each social worker has to handle up to 250 cases. This increase in workload leads to burn-outs, turnovers, and beneficiaries who sometimes get a minimum service rather than real help to get out of poverty. Minister, I know how attentive you are to the proper functioning of the CPAS and the working conditions of their social workers. You have set aside a budget of 115 million to help them, and you have also doubled the share of staff costs. While these initiatives may have been a breath of fresh air for many CPAS, for others, the situation remains difficult. In view of the projected increase in the number of RIS beneficiaries, how do you envisage supporting social workers to cope with this additional workload, even if you have already identified resources? Are new initiatives envisaged to remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u74	Madam Minister, in your royal decision of 3 March, you distributed EUR 25 million of support among the OMCWs to support vulnerable young people as a result of the covid pandemic. However, the distribution makes us frown, as the amount is, in our opinion, irregularly distributed between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. It seems as if there are no needy young people in Flanders, while some Walloon and Brussels OCMWs receive very generous funds. Madam Secretary, what scale did you use to allocate these funds to the OMCWs? Why is Flanders severely disadvantaged in this distribution vis-à-vis Brussels and Wallonia? Why do we not see a link with the poverty barometer of the Flemish Government in the distribution of these funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u75	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. If some – but I don't want to believe it – still think that the federal government is spending too much to support vulnerable groups in times of health, economic and social crisis, I won't try to convince them otherwise. The lines before the structures offering food aid, the census of homeless people, the monitoring of applications to CPAS whose figures are published on the website of the SPP Integration clearly show that all the visionaries are now red. The mobilisation of all is therefore necessary to combat the ravages that the covid-19 will make on a whole part of the population which must be ensured that it will recover tomorrow: the young people, the students (for which 30 million euros have still been released), those who dared to undertake yesterday and who have been unable to work for months, the usual workers in the sectors affected by confinement, the temporary unemployed, and I pass by. The means to support these women and men are there, and I have no doubt that they are meeting needs today. On the other hand, the challenge is to support front-line structures, i.e. CPAS to respond to ever-increasing demands. Although resources have already been released to enable them to carry out their essential mission of ensuring a dignified life for all, this issue of funding CPAS goes beyond the economic context of this crisis. That is why I intend to make it a real project in the context of the plan to combat poverty tomorrow. I have no second to doubt that you share my concern as a city councilman and OCMW chairman. As far as the distribution of funding for young people is concerned, I can assure you that this is the most objective key, which best meets the local needs of this population. I don't want to have any controversy with you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u76	Madam Secretary, it may have been too fast in French. I do not understand whether you have any idea how much the EUR 135 million will be spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u77	The EUR 30 million is for young people only.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u78	I am talking about the EUR 135 million specifically allocated for additional social support as a result of the corona crisis, additional staff and operating costs of EUR 20 million and EUR 115 million. In the hearing, the POD MI said that this amount is based on little. They simply put a sum on it. In a crisis, people do strange things. I hear from all the OCMWs that they just can't eat it. That's a shame, because that money will be better spent on other things. Even with the extension of a year we have given, we cannot eat it. My question then is how we deal with it. If you just leave the deadline and you don't get anything back, that's a strange form of allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u79	There are many OCMWs that now have no money left of those 150 million euros. In Antwerp, for example, there is no money left from the subsidy for the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u80	That may be the case in Antwerp, but in Leuven there is still 80%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u81	It's the same in Ghent. It is the same in Brussels-Capital. It depends on the OCMW and the dynamics of the OCMW's employees. You need to look at all OCMW's and not some OCMW's.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u82	My question was whether there is an overview of the amount spent on the various OMCWs, where there are still surpluses and what will happen with them. That was my question. I know some OCMWs don't get it on. There'll definitely be others. The question remains how to deal with these flows of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. In the face of this crisis, social workers have made superhuman efforts to protect the most fragile and disadvantaged. In a trade based on human relations, it is difficult for them to do their job properly at a time when verbal and direct communication has become difficult. I had pointed out the amounts that were released. You said in your response that a real refinancing project was needed for CPAS and that you were going to make it a priority as part of your poverty reduction plan. I will not fail to come back to you to find out more, but I know the support you give to CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u84	Madam Minister, releasing EUR 24 million for young people who need it is a noble gesture. It is intended for young people who have been in financial difficulties due to the corona crisis. The distribution of it makes me frown the eyebrows anyway. I don't want to cause polemics, but I still want to give you the numbers. Wallonia receives EUR 11.9 million, Brussels receives EUR 6.6 million and Flanders only EUR 5.4 million, as if there is no need to support young people in Flanders. The need has also increased alarmingly in Flanders in 2020. As far as I am concerned, the distribution of financial aid to young adults in need in this corona crisis is a Community distortion. As unfortunately happens more often in Belgium, the distribution of funds is also very much at the disadvantage of Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u85	Minister, a recent survey has confirmed a trend that has existed for several years now: young people are wary of the pension system. The causes are too low a pension, too high a retirement age or the complexity of understanding the current system. In the end, more than 50 per cent of the young people surveyed are concerned about not being able to lead a decent life to retirement, and nearly 53 per cent of them fear that the State will no longer play its role in providing a legal pension. Minister, it is our duty to better inform young people about the constitution of their retirement and to put in place strong measures to reassure them of their future. Your willingness to reform the pension system is already an excellent step in this direction. At the same time, however, a strong information campaign should be set up, which can transform the measures taken today into a concrete reality for pensioners of tomorrow. Minister, how do you plan to restore the confidence and interest of young people in our country's pension system? How do you intend to ensure that information is accessible to young workers so that they can make informed career choices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u86	Madam Minister, a survey by PensioPlus, the pension fund federation, of people between 18 and 40 years of age, who are still far from their pension, shows that 6 out of 10 fear that they will not live with the pension. 60% of respondents indicated that they had not taken any initiative for the pension. They do not save their pensions and have often not yet considered how to build up their pensions. An important cause for indifference on the one hand, and on the other hand, the fear of not being able to live on a pension, lies in the lack of knowledge of our pension system. For example, one in four participants indicates that they have never heard of mypension, even though they are at work. Only half of the participants who know the platform have used it effectively. It also appears that more than half of those questioned do not know the second and third pension pillars. That's problematic. Our pension system and, in the event of enlargement, the whole of social security is based on solidarity. If we want to maintain this solidarity and responsibility as the basis of our pension system, it is important that the group of young people between 18 and 40 understand how the system works, how social security works and how it is more trusted. That is why there is a need for a comprehensive information campaign that conveys information about our complex pension system to young people up to 40 years of age. They need to be informed about the full pension structure with the three pillars: the statutory pension, supplementary pension or pension savings through the employer, and savings through the bank, which one owns. Madam Minister, will you take initiatives to better inform young people about pension building, for example through an information campaign? What do you have in mind? If you're not going to, why not? Will you make sure that who is at work becomes familiar with mypension? How will you do that? I'd be happy to give you the following suggestion. In Sweden, where I visited with the Committee on Social Affairs about 15 years ago, a working person receives a red envelope every year with a calculation of what has already been built up as a pension. That works very sensitizingly, because then one realizes how much more is needed for a good pension. Perhaps, Madam Minister, an annual mail can be sent... and why no red e-mail... with information on what one has built up in pension rights. This will certainly increase knowledge of our pension system among the active population, and this will not only benefit those involved, but is also in the public interest. Belgian social security is quite unique, we can be proud of it and it is important that people contribute to it, not only because of their own pension, but also out of solidarity with others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u87	Colleagues, the results of the survey conducted by Callebaut, PensioPlus and Assuralia confirm once again the urgent need to restore the confidence of young people – but also of all workers – in our pension system. The pension debate highlights only one side of the story, that of costs, but that important dossier is about so much more. As if our only choice of society was to reduce the pension to ensure the social and financial sustainability of our social security. That's what we've heard in the last five years. There is little or nothing on the question of fair and solidarity financing of pensions, as you said, Mrs Lanjri. As politicians, it is our responsibility to present things completely, precisely and to stop frightening the citizens. Let us stop, once and for all, in the interests of all, from colporting received ideas of which we all know the deceptiveness! Let's stop with the groundless theories of an "invisible hand" specific to markets that would solve everything with a magic wand! Let us stop a theory of runoff that is now finally criticized by the American President himself because it benefits only the most affluent and very little the poorest! Let us stop with the neoliberal discourse that paralyses us in the idea that there is no other alternative! A lot of these theories belong in the fable newspaper. They have only one goal, namely to destroy a social model and reduce solidarity. In addition, they undermine confidence, especially among young people, in our welfare state. That is what we must promote and strengthen. That is what this study shows us. That's for sure, it's a dramatic observation; you said it! My role and that of the government will be to restore the terribly shaken confidence in recent years. I will say again: yes, pensions are and will be financially viable. It is a choice of society and this choice, as far as I am concerned, is made. The reform that I will present in the coming weeks will be based on this choice and that objective. It will also take into account the need to better communicate the rights of each individual with regard to his or her pension rights, which form part of the first years of his or her career. Young people are not aware today that all career choices will have an impact on their pension. It is a job that we have to do with MyPension so that, for each career choice, the consequences on the pension are immediately known - when we choose a 4/5th time, a 3/5th time, a leave without pay or other. It will also involve education. Thanks to the FSMA and the educational days on money, I gave a course on social security, to explain what social security is in our society, how this social security is the very basis of solidarity and redistribution. I think, for example, that there are citizenship courses and that the ministers of education should ensure that in these citizenship courses there are courses on our State and on social security and the general interest that it represents. That is solidarity too. Our system must also be more readable and simpler, so that people can effectively adhere to it, and also have ever more effective communication tools. I also intend to involve young people - I do not know how yet - in a major debate on pension reform, in order to better communicate, explain and make them more responsible for their own pensions. I believe that this is how we can restore confidence: through clear communication and strong reform. That is what I have committed myself to before you and that is what I will do throughout this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answers. Increasing life expectancy, under-financing of our social security, declining return on investment and increasing public debt reduce our citizens' confidence in the quality of their pensions. Faced with this scenario, young people fear that their legal pension is no longer sufficient and they are worried about their future. They are beginning to look for solutions that can provide them with a dignified retirement. I mean, you're going to restore young people's confidence, better communicate pension rights and career choices. This is important for young people, especially women, as they have a lower pension. As you said, it will go through education. An attempt must be made to integrate this subject into citizenship courses. The system also needs to be more readable and the best weapon is communication. Inviting young people to a debate and giving them the floor is important. I look forward to seeing the rest of the operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u89	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. We all agree that the concerns of these young people are justified. Younger workers are now aware that through the system of repartitioning the statutory pension system in our country what they contribute is going straight to the current pensioners. They fear that when they retire after so many years, the repartition system will no longer be affordable. Their concern about this is not entirely without ground. You know the costs, I've explained them before. We are currently paying EUR 50 billion. By 2025, this will be EUR 64 billion, for the first pillar alone. I know that you share that concern, but you do not show much in your cards how you will deal with the global pension reform. Communication alone will not be enough; you will have to come up with concrete plans. You provide for this, and I fully understand that, as I have said on several occasions. September was envisaged in the coalition agreement, which is relatively short-term, and I have a question about that. It does indicate that there is a sense of urgency in dealing with this dossier. However, you have already given some bad signals to those young people, which feeds their distrust. I am not saying that what you have done on minimum pensions is bad, but it is a pity that you have separated this from the global pension reform. Furthermore, like those young people, I am still hungry: how will you pay for the increase in minimum pensions, the IGA, the wage ceiling and the abolition of the correction factor for self-employed people? There are no concrete means of achieving this. You say this will be included in the global plan, but why did you disconnect it? I have heard you argue for the pension bonus, but you know that we do not think this is a good idea because it will not be effective. It is yet another expensive measure, which you will probably pack into your global pension reform. The greatest concern for young people lies in affordability, and I have heard very few answers from you, nor from your fellow ministers. I hope that you will make a drastic reform of the overall pension reform, that you will be prepared to tear down some priceless sacred houses across ideological boundaries. I hope you will have the courage to do so. I also hope that the guiding principle of these social reforms, taking into account, of course, a certain form of solidarity towards the weakest in our society, will correspond to the way in which wage formation in the labour market should take place: such as 'wage to work', 'pension to work' may become the starting point of your future policy. It is only when you take that line of thinking into your pension reform that you will be able to regain the confidence of young people. They will have to continue to pay the system in the next decades. You will need young people, while there will be fewer young people in relation to the number of pensioners; you are well aware of this problem. The in-depth pension reform is a file that is very close to our heart and which we are also concerned about with N-VA. You can and can always count on us for good ideas on this, if you ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u90	Madam Minister, I do not think that the fear of the inpayability of pensions, which Mr Van der Donkt refers to, is the only problem. Even so, people simply don't understand how the system works. Neither the young nor the elderly know that we are working with a repartition system. Whoever works today contributes to today's pensions. The pension of those who work today will be paid later by the young people working at that time. Not everyone realizes that. Ignorance of that system is next to concerns about affordability. You are now saying that this should actually be covered by the formation of citizenship in the lessons. That's a possibility, but we can't ask education for everything. I myself have a 19-year-old daughter, who is in her first year of higher studies. She's just been following humaniora before. She's never been taught social security at school. You guys have kids, too. Have they really learned on the school banks how our pension system works? I don't think so. For the time being, this is not in the final terms of education. If you think that we should accept this, it is good for me, but then we should agree with the regions and ask them whether they can do so and whether they can be taken into account in a very global approach. In addition, I believe that many young people are digitally involved. They can look up all kinds of cases. They look up everything themselves. It would therefore be a good thing for the federal government to put the information on mypension and the pension system on a website in a clear way. It's an en-en-story. We can ask education to do something more. Perhaps education in this area is not enough. However, we must also ensure that they at least know the system of mypension. Madam Minister, it is not enough that there is a good website. I would also ask you, if necessary, to launch a campaign, which is perhaps a bit old-fashioned, to clarify what a person's pension looks like. You may do so as a result of the pension reform that is to come. We need more information campaigns and a simple explanation of how our system, with its three pillars, is working. I know that information can be found, but not everyone can find their way to those websites immediately. In this way, we can increase solidarity and support for the people in order to contribute to the system. We must not underestimate that. We must continue to work on this. Perhaps an additional campaign, not necessarily now but, for example, after the pension reform, can help in this. In my view, it is not just about young people. PensioPlus has studied this in the 18 to 40 year old age group. Even others do not know the system of the three pillars. I've spoken in the past for groups. I had to explain the three pillars every time. I'm talking about middle-aged people sometimes. It is not obvious to them either. So don't assume that everyone knows all that. I would therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to take an additional campaign initiative yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u91	Colleagues, as we do not have a chronometer, we tend to increase the time of the answers, however relevant they may be. Thus, we have spent 15 minutes on the previous question and I think that we can sincerely reduce that speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u92	Madam President, Minister, this is a very general question. You have already partly answered more specific questions from colleagues, but I think it is important to put them here. It's been six months since you announced a major pension reform. Advice would be sought, experts involved and, above all, the social partners would be put to work. The delivery date is September, but that's been in four months. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of the pension reform dossier? What concrete steps have been taken in the meantime? Which actors have you put to work on what mission and by what time? Do you still see September as a viable date?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u93	Madam President, Minister, in November 2020 you proposed the pension reform in your policy statement and policy paper. The financing of pensions is, after all, a priority in the government agreement. You intend to submit that pension reform to the Council of Ministers on 1 September 2021. There are indeed several challenges in the area of pensions. A reform is important, but time is running out. I therefore have the following questions for you. Where are you at today's trial? What elements are you preparing? When will a proposal for reform be delivered to the social partners? When will the proposal come to the government and Parliament? What aspects are you preparing? What timeline do you use for pension reform? Those are general questions, but I just want to know how far this pension reform is going right now. You have until September, but in the meantime there is a need to prepare for it. For example, the social partners should be able to give their opinions and the government should be able to deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u94	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question and the continued interest in my plans. The pension reform is indeed a spearhead of my first year as a pension minister. I can assure you that we have not been idle in the last few months. The administration and my staff are working hard on structural reform every day. I naturally stick to the coalition agreement and come forward with a proposal by September. Telling you today what we are working on thoroughly ignores my commitment to involving the social partners. You will not be unaware that the social dialogue today has other concerns. There too, trust is needed. The reform of our pension system can only succeed in an atmosphere of confidence. That's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I didn't get much better at it, but the keeper wins. In the end, you will have more specific answers to the questions we have asked. I think it is a bit of a missed opportunity in the light of the previous question on citizens' confidence. On the other hand, you refer to the social dialogue. So, if I understand correctly, it's obviously not started yet. In fact, I think I understand that you have asked the Pension Management Committee to suspend the start of the social dialogue on the pension dossier until after reaching an initial wage standard. Is that a good idea? In the social partners they have specialists in wage formation and also specialists in pensions. You say that there is not a good atmosphere and that for that reason you do not yet have the social dialogue started. That link kind of surprises me. I'm sure you have a reason. This is not good for strengthening citizens' confidence. I can only regret it. I can assure you that both employees and employers are prepared to consider and negotiate this pension dossier. They are ready in the starting blocks, but you are waiting to give the start signal. That is particularly regrettable, given the deadline you have imposed on yourself, namely September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u96	Madam Minister, you said in your policy paper that you would come to the government with a draft by 1 September. I didn't ask you to tell me what your plan is today. My question was more general about the approach, who you involve and when you would do something about it. That is why I asked whether a proposal from you has already been made to the social partners and whether a proposal from the social partners has already been requested. It would be good to start with such elements, which are needed to work towards reform. I understand that the social partners are having difficult negotiations on the wage agreement today, but that should not stop us from starting preparations for pension reform in time. That must be done in time, otherwise we will be in short supply of time. I therefore hope that you will soon be able to submit your proposals, first of all to the government and the social partners and then to Parliament, so that we can discuss them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u97	Madam Minister, since March 2020, checks on the guarantee of income for older people, the IGA, have been suspended and this suspension is certainly valid until June. It is also your intention to review the whole control system. In the plenary session on Thursday 22 April last, you announced that you would consult with the social partners during that week. Madam Secretary, has that consultation taken place yet? What is the result of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u98	Madam Minister, the control of GRAPA has given way in this House and in the news after a period of "covistic" hibernation. I have the feeling that this issue will grow in power in the future and that the freeze of control, as it exists today with the participation of bpost, will indeed be the last health measure that you will have to lift or disfellowship while waiting for a reform or the implementation of a new procedure that is more dignified and respectful of seniors. Before the break or the covid hibernation, there were a lot of questions and statistics in this file that make it possible to have an idea of what we are talking about: two thirds of women beneficiaries, 30% of beneficiaries who have a career of over 30 years and 30% of controlled people who are 80 years of age or older. I have not been able to know the number of centenarians among them. In this assessment, it seems interesting to me to see the number of beneficiaries who only receive GRAPA and those who receive a supplement to a pension that is too low. This refined analysis will be interesting in the context of pension reform, which, Madam Minister, is an ambition of this legislature. Minister, of all people who receive a GRAPA, what percentage does it receive a GRAPA in addition to a retirement or survivor's pension? Among those who only receive a GRAPA without a supplementary pension, what is the proportion between men and women? Among these beneficiaries, what is the proportion of Belgian, European and non-European citizens? On the basis of these figures, more generally, how do you envisage a reform of the control of beneficiaries? This issue has already been raised in plenary in this same House and will need to be refined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u99	Minister, I will go along with my colleague Delizée. It is true that we had a discussion in those same places last week. I would like to go back to two aspects. I'll try to merge my two questions to save a little time. On the question of the control system and on the fact that the Data Protection Authority had shown problems of equality in the mode of control, there were two elements. First of all, there is the question of the legal basis for the implicit transfer of control competence to bpost, which de facto causes factors to know the identities and addresses of persons benefiting from GRAPA. This is a concern that we have already mentioned extensively with the previous government. Suddenly, a factor knows that a person was benefiting from GRAPA. There is currently no legal basis for the factors to be checked strictly on the identity cards of the beneficiaries in the context of a residence check. Do you confirm that there are no laws or orders that explicitly authorize this transfer and identification? Last week, this appeal by the 42 associations (trade unions, mutuals, independents, etc.) was mentioned. including trade union organisations representing bpost workers. This collective has told you of its opposition to the idea of continuing the involvement of factors in the current mode of control. What's your answer? The second question is more of the order of checking the data on Statbel because these two thirds of women beneficiaries of GRAPA have been mentioned. At the plenary session, I heard significantly different data. Are we all talking about the same data and are you confirming this impact on women? In the current reflection, has the issue of the specific concern of women been put on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in the government agreement, I have consulted with the social partners on a first step in the reform of the IGO's residence control system, in order to make the system more proportionate. Respect for social dialogue is the cornerstone of the proper functioning of our institutions and our democracy for this government. That is the Belgian social model. The first stage of the reform of this control consists of a series of quick wins for which the social partners have given a unanimous favourable opinion. A royal decree is under preparation and contains the following provisions. With regard to the abolition of the 80 % rate of checks, this quantified target is not appropriate and reduces the administration to making the figure blindly, without focusing on truly problematic situations of organised fraud, as long as there are any. With regard to the exclusion of persons over the age of 80 and those residing in nursing homes or psychiatric institutions, the age limit was laid down in the previous regulations. These people are most likely to be in Belgium, let us stop boring them. It is in this context that I intend to review the appropriateness of the controls. With regard to the clarification on how to account for 29 days, we have taken up a recommendation from the pension mediators. From now on, the day of departure from Belgium and the day of arrival in the foreign country do not count within 29 days. The day of departure from Belgium and the day of return from abroad shall be treated as permanent and effective residence in Belgium. As a result, short 48-hour stays are no longer counted within 29 days and people do not have to report, which is particularly important for border workers. I repeat that this is only a first step. These reforms must be carried out in a peaceful manner and with the actors on the ground. My consultations with the collective of associations are underway for the next steps. The social partners, mutual societies and others will continue to be consulted. As far as the bpost contract is concerned, I am of course aware of the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, which the chairman of the Committee had directly referred to. This opinion was already discussed in this House on 18 February 2020. The contract between bpost and SFP makes bpost a neutral logistics partner and the Federal Pension Service remains in any case the supervisory body. The suspension of controls during the health crisis now allows for greater serenity to take account of the issues of the proposed reforms. With regard to the questions relating to the figures, they were asked but date from November 2020. These are the last consolidated figures we have: 107,632 people received a GRAPA and 81.9% of them receive this benefit in combination with a statutory pension. That's a huge proportion. More than three quarters of the beneficiaries of a GRAPA without a legal pension are women. These are 11 114 people. The distribution of all GRAPA beneficiaries between Belgian and non-Belges is as follows: Belgium, 88%; European Union, 8.2%; non-European Union, 3.8%. Of course, it is in the light of the consolidated figures I have just mentioned that the reforms will be envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u101	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that social dialogue is working in this area. I don't have a problem with the social consultation. We're just a little suspicious sometimes, because things aren't always smooth. Apparently, it's going smoothly here. We have no problem with not counting the day of departure and the day of arrival on the 29 days. Nor do we have any problems with a number of administrative simplifications in the context of the checks on declarations. I think you're on the right track. You know that we are not in favour of the complete abolition of controls, because it is still about replacement benefits on which a check must be made, no matter how small possible abuses are, but I fully understand that people in residential care centres, in psychiatric institutions, 80-plussers, are being spared some. I look forward to further steps in the dossier and, above all, to the KB you announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u102	Minister, thank you for these answers. The first concerted decisions with the social partners are very positive. It goes without saying that we are very in favour of this. We will return later on the contract with bpost. For me, that's not the main point at the moment. Again in the evaluation of statistics, I note that 96.2% of the beneficiaries are Belgian or European. Had these data been known under the previous legislature, I do not know whether it would have been appropriate to make the previous reform. We were probably misconceptions of reality. I heard that 81.9% of people had a legal pension. This is a considerable number and of course an important data since it is linked to pensions. I said earlier: 30% of beneficiaries had a career of 30 years or more. You have to realize that these are people who have worked. Not always with full careers or straight trajectories, but they are still people who have worked a lot and have a very low pension and a supplement. Then we'll have to see the future. These elements will really allow you to analyze the situation, to see how to move on to the second stage after the transitional measures. Perhaps, in the context of pension reform, there are reflections to be made on the basis of these figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u103	Minister, I am reassured that social consultation is in place and that the feedback on it is not negative. That's always a good sign. I wanted to draw attention to the mention of exceptions. The portion of exceptions should not be too inflated to the detriment of reflection on control as such. It is when there is control that the method of control must be taken care of. On the bpost contract, we have to go back and think about this privacy issue, which, for us, is somewhat like protecting the dignity of privacy. 81.9% of people have a pension and they need a supplement because their pension does not allow them to live decently. They are also mainly women. For us, it will be necessary to ensure that the method of control meets the criteria of dignity vis-à-vis people who have had a career that is too valiant to be able to live with dignity. I know you're careful. I guess we'll come back to the bpost issue. I do not hide from you that we will address the relevant minister so that she can give her point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u104	Madam President, Minister, last week an article was published in De Tijd stating that the FPS Finance and, in particular, the tax authorities have recently significantly increased the number of checks on the 80% threshold for supplementary pensions. That has led to some commotion within the sector. Is it true what Sectoral Federation Assuralia and pension and insurance specialists proclaim, namely that the tax authority interprets the limit that limits the tax deductibility of the premiums more strictly than previously? Is that an evolution led by your cabinet or by yourself, following the recommendations of the Court of Auditors' report? The 80 % rule would generally be difficult to verify "because a number of parameters essential for its calculation are still not laid down by royal decree." Is this true? Will your government, if it is effective, take action in this matter in a short time? According to what timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u105	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the Court of Auditors has indeed spoken very critically about the 80% limit. The scheme is very complex, which makes it difficult to control, with all the risks and abuses it entails. The Court of Auditors advises the government to thoroughly reform the 80% regime and to achieve a simple and easily verifiable rule. Therefore, in consultation with the Minister for Finance, I am considering how, in the context of pension reform, we can achieve a simpler and fairer rule. The necessary reforms are completely separate from the recent technical discussion on the application of the 80% limit reported by the press. This is about the application by the tax administration of the current legislation that I, as Minister of Pensions, am completely outside of. For more details, please refer to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic465x.u106	Madam Minister, we can indeed agree that the whole scheme is too complicated around 80%. That's another one of those typical coffers that has grown over the years and in which a cat doesn't find her boy. This leads to problems of interpretation, resentment, anxiety and so on. It is a good thing that you will deal with this together with Mr Van Peteghem and that you will take this into account in the global pension reform. You will also consult the sector on this matter. He will be pleased that there will finally be some clarity on the matter. I look forward to the solution that will shake you out of your sleeve.
