ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u3	I have received amendments to the bill on temporary support measures due to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2002/1. I have received amendments to the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, No. 2002/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 June 2021, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Colleagues, the next item is the debate on the draft law on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency (1951/1-13), the proposal for a law on the finding of a crisis situation (1814/1-2), the proposal for a law amending the law of 15 May 2007 on civil security, with a view to limiting in time the effects of ministerial orders in exceptional situations (1823/1-2) and the proposal for a law to establish a continuous democratic debate between the government and the Federal Parliament during a health emergency (1883/1-2).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u4	Madam Chair, with respect to the Pandemic Bill, we have still not received the advice of the Council of State on changes that have taken place between the draft bill and the bill. Concerning the measure on the requisitions of persons, for example, we still do not have this opinion. Since the arrival of this law in plenary, I have requested that the Council of State take a decision on this matter. I asked you, Madam Chair, to make this explicit request to the Council of State to look into the changes that have occurred between the draft bill and the bill. We still do not have an opinion of the Council of State on these measures. Madam President, I reiterate my request to the Council of State to consider these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u5	Madam President, last Thursday we were informed of the opinion of the Council of State that was requested. Such advice is always very interesting, otherwise we would not ask them. They can sometimes also give rise to proposals for new attempts to resolve legislative shortcomings. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, We would like to know the opinion of the Council of State on these specific amendments. Some of our amendments have already been the subject of an opinion, but no opinion has yet been requested from the Council of State on these amendments. They have a different impact than the amendments that have already been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u6	Madam President, we also ask that the Council of State be consulted on an amendment that we have tabled. We have been advocating this since the beginning, that the government must have a few days to react urgently to a health crisis, but then it must be able to pass over to Parliament, to the democratic institution, to discuss the measures. We submit this amendment to the Council of State so that it can rule on this formula, which is much more balanced than the one advocated in the bill and which we continue to fight. We believe that it is Parliament that must decide on the measures to be taken in the event of an epidemic, with, of course, a period reserved for the government to act in an emergency. We therefore call for our amendment to be referred back to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, if I sum up, Mrs Vanessa Matz has tabled an amendment, namely Amendment No 62. Mr Nabil Boukili tabled several amendments, namely Amendments Nos 63, 64 and 65. Mr De Roover asked for the opinion of the Council of State on Amendments Nos 67 and 72 to 75. Can I be assured that these amendments are admissible? [[Oui]] Mr. Registrar confirms that they are. Exercise is always perilous.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u8	Madam President, I understand the logic, there is no problem. I would just like to ask a few questions. How is Amendment No 64 different from Amendment No 51 on which the Council of State has already ruled? In the cascade, if the intention of the amendment is to remove people or workers, why should the opinion of the National Labour Council be sought? If the aim is to seize only things or goods and not people, then why an amendment to get people out and then ask for the opinion of the National Labour Council? I'm trying to understand because we've been here a long time. I want to understand the logic of the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u9	Madam President, the purpose of the previous amendment was to delete the measure. The purpose of the amendment was for the Council of State to decide on the substance of the measure, which did not receive an opinion from the Council of State between the draft bill and the bill. Today's amendment is different. It does not call for the removal of the measure. It calls, in the context of the application of the requisition of persons, to consult with the National Labour Council and so on. So this is another amendment. He's different. It's not the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u10	Amendment No 64 is Amendment No 51.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u11	It is amended. This is not the same amendment. In Amendment No 64, we do not ask for deletion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u12	If: "Delete the words "persons".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u13	This follows the advice of the Council of State. He asked, since in development, the word "workers" is used, and the amendment uses the word "persons", to delete the word so that it is consistent. It was following the advice of the Council of State that we made that change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u14	The Council of State has therefore already voted on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u15	On the amendment, but not on the measure. The aim is for him to decide on the measure. That is why I asked the Speaker to explicitly ask the Council of State to look into the changes between the draft bill and the bill, which did not receive notice of this proceeding. We asked for it by the majority, and she refused it. You, Madam President, have the power to make that request. I asked. As long as we do not have this opinion, we will not be able to vote on this bill, since we have no opinion on people's requisitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u16	We didn't refuse anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u17	Yes, I do! We have asked for an opinion from the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u18	The majority does not have the power to refuse a request for an opinion to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u19	Yes, I asked in committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u20	You ask, 50 people vote, and it's done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u21	I asked in committee, and the majority did not want the Council of State to look into the changes between the draft bill and the bill. I asked explicitly, and the majority refused to ask for this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u22	Madam President, I believe that any amendment can be examined in order to know whether it is indeed a new one. Is it something on which the Council of State has not yet been able to take a decision? I think that, apart from the various amendments, you will encounter such an amendment. I don't want to interfere so much about that. The question does ask itself how far this repetitive game can lead. We've been through it in other matters, too. That sprout comes from the law. In a Parliament we must treat a minority very carefully. That minority has rights. I'd be the last one to fight that. But it cannot be the intention of that minority to effectively prevent a democratic majority from voting on a particular legislative text. That can't be the intention. You will agree with me that if you receive the following opinion from the Council of State, an amendment can be tabled again. That can then be extended to the infinite. Sometimes we are talking about a dictatorship of the majority, but here I would like to mention that I have still done so about a tyranny of the minority. The minority may then prevent the vote of a democratically established majority. If that were to emerge from the law, I would describe it as some kind of abuse of procedure. It is on this basis that we need to think about how this institution works. If one can go through that endlessly, ad vitam eternam, that cannot be the intention. I don't think anyone wanted that. I repeat, next time we will have an opinion and we will table amendments again and we will be going through them for months. That can't be the intention. After consultation, these are the opinions of the Council of State, your institution must be able to reach a decision at a certain time. I would urge you to take a look at this in the minds of the Conference or the Rules of Procedure Committee. This also needs to be looked at in our institution, because I believe that there is a need for a legislative change here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u23	Madam President, the Council of State has been able to examine this draft three times, including the text as amended. The Council of State is also quite clear, not only when it comes to this draft. He shall not give any double opinion on matters on which he has already given an opinion. He does not have to give an opinion on amendments which respond to a prior opinion of the Council of State and which merely implement a suggestion made by the Council of State. I note that there is a minority here who will ask and obtain it for the fourth time. As a democrat, I will accept that, albeit with long teeth, as it is just like those colleagues who cried out here months ago and begged for absolutely a pandemic law. They are now using all the means at their disposal to ensure that the debate cannot take place here and that the law, which they themselves asked for, cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u24	Madam President, I would also like to make one or the other point concerning this request. First of all, I would like to recall the context of the law, even if we know it. There have been debates and the way in which they have been organized is quite exceptional. A preliminary draft law has been circulated to Parliament, on which all political groups have been able to express their views. We auditioned more than 20 specialists in two weeks. This bill and its comments were debated in plenary one whole afternoon and then referred back to the government with a bill. It was once again debated and voted in the Committee on Justice. I recall this because I sometimes hear some colleagues claiming that this text, without any doubt very important, has been insufficiently debated. I do not agree to hear that some experts, certain sectors, certain groups, certain associations, or that Parliament would not have given a sufficient opinion on this text, would not have heard enough. I would like to point out that the way in which this text was dealt with was truly exceptional. What is required here is obviously a parliamentary right: to refer amendments to the Council of State when 50 parliamentarians decide, it is a democratic right to which my group is attached. We have already used this right with other colleagues in recent years. It is therefore normal that at some point a minority, 50 parliamentarians, can claim it in our democracy. But now we are entering another phase because it becomes a carousel: we are in the fourth phase! This could be explained on the merits, as it can continue to be said, after four times, that there are still elements for which there is still doubt. I am talking to the conditional because here, on certain amendments, I really have a doubt. I want to stress one point: we cannot enter into a carousel of blockage and fliber; it would be misusing this parliamentary right that we are defending. I would like to ask the 50 opposition colleagues to commit themselves not to flibus, to say that this right continues to be used for real substantive dimensions of the debate, which is quite normal in a democracy. In this case, we are at a stage where the question can be asked. In this open and transparent debate, I would like to hear the commitment not to make any unnecessary democratic blockage, let alone flibus. No wrong use of this democratic tool so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u25	Madam President, I would like to correct some things. We talked about the game, the fliber, the carousel. Something important has to be remembered. A preliminary draft was discussed in committee, on which the Council of State considered and gave an opinion. In this opinion, the Council of State states that any change that goes beyond its recommendations must be referred back to it. We agree on that. In the bill that followed, there were changes that went beyond the recommendations of the Council of State. In particular, I take the example of people's requisitions. This was not included in the draft bill. The Council of State had not considered this matter. However, this is reflected in the bill. There is no opinion of the Council of State on the requisitions of persons. Is there a Member of Parliament in this House who can tell me what the Council of State thinks of people's requisitions? I'm leaving an answer time. I don't see anyone reacting. We have no opinion on a measure as important as the requisition of persons. Remember the reactions when this measure was initiated by the former government to requisition health care workers! Remember the lifting of shields and the moment we turned our backs on the Prime Minister! Remember what the working world thinks of this measure! And you want to pass it into a bill without any consultation with the Council of State. I cannot vote for a text in which there is such a strong, important measure affecting the world of work without an opinion from the Council of State on the legality of this measure. Simply! The demand is more than legitimate. We're not here playing or abusing anything. I simply ask for the opinion of the Council of State on a fundamental measure. Madam Chair, before I tabled my amendment, I asked that you make the request for the Council of State to consider the amendments to the bill. If you had, I would not have tabled an amendment. But you didn't. I therefore play my role as a parliamentarian because I am called upon by the workers who are afraid of this measure and who do not want it to be voted on in this law. I cannot vote for a text that repeats such a measure for which there is no opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u26	Madam President, it may not be surprising that I feel that we are having the same debate as a few weeks ago, since amendments are already being sent to the Council of State for advice for the fourth time. Mr Boukili says that the Council of State did not comment on the difference in the text between the preliminary draft and the draft bill. Apparently, he read the opinion very selectively. He refers to certain passages in the opinion, but not to the footnote mentioned by a number of colleagues last time. In it, the Council of State says literally that it does not decide on the difference between the preliminary draft and the draft bill. That is what it says literally, albeit in a footnote and not in the text itself. However, it is part of the opinion of the Council of State that we are supposed to read and take part in the debate as MPs. So what you're asking makes absolutely no sense. We can ask that seven or eight times, but the Council of State has already expressed its opinion on this. Madam President, I therefore believe that there is no point in asking for the opinion of the Council of State on that amendment once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide a slight embarrassment. You may have noticed that I have not introduced a new amendment, even though I believe that this is an essential right of the minority and that I can be sensitive to the arguments put forward by Mr Boukili, if there really is a new added value. However, I feel a little bit like reliving what we experienced a year ago on the occasion of the law on the total decriminalization of abortion. At the time, there was neither really a majority nor a real opposition, but I was one of those who were objectively shocked that some, who have since passed into the ranks of the majority, used four times in a row this possibility of referring a text to the Council of State to prevent the adoption of a law with the aim of locking up the debate until the constitution of a government that would make it possible to stop a process of total decriminalization of abortion. This is all the more terrible as it has worked since then, the Vivaldi government has been formed with, among the compromises that have been made, the freezing of this bill. The then president, Patrick Dewael, had worked on the issue. As far as we are concerned, we have tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure to limit the possibility for a minority, except in exceptional cases, to request ad vitam aeternam's opinion from the Council of State. This is a technique that the opposition must really measure. That said, so that there is no ambiguity, I think that the Pandemic Bill is still as bad as it was at first. It's always so problematic. It is, in my view, a matter of special powers in disguise, and I still think that we must vote against it. Nevertheless, after this new episode, it will still be necessary for each other to take the responsibility of debating and voting for or against. Those who continue to table amendments must convince that there is real added value and that there is no question of parliamentary fliber. If we reject a practice for a text that we support, we cannot fail to resent it for a text that we are fighting against. There is a need for some parliamentary logic and consistency. I would therefore like us to land, to have an opportunity to debate the substance of the draft, to try to convince the colleagues of the majority that this text, even renovated with the opinion of the Council of State, is still so bad and will not solve the issues raised by this pandemic. But for that, we must be able to go to the debate. Those who today use the technique of amendment and referral to the Council of State must be more pedagogic in their motivation. I hear Mr. Boukili's one that can be convincing. For others, I'm not quite convinced. I repeat that we need coherence and that what we do not accept a year ago, we cannot logically accept it today. It is time to go a little deeper into the debate on the Pandemic Bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u28	Those who regret that requests for opinions to the Council of State on certain amendments have not received a majority in committee have the opportunity to resubmit their request here and try to find 50 people to support it. It is not necessary to replay the same round each time by saying that the majority did not want it. You have the opportunity here to refer the matter to the Council of State for an opinion on an amendment. This argument is beginning to look like warm-up. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is our responsibility not only to respect our parliamentary institution, but also the other institutions and, in particular, the Council of State. Everyone will agree, this institution is a fundamental part of our constitutional and democratic legal order. We should not give the impression that we are making the Council of State the instrument of political quarrels, however noble and important the subjects of these quarrels. If we continue to do so, if some continue to table amendments without end, for which they seek the advice of the Council of State in order to delay the adoption of certain texts which hinder them politically, I am very afraid that we will lead to a devaluation of the prime role of the Council of State. I draw attention to the responsibility of a number of parliamentarians to move slowly but surely towards an abuse of procedure. Of course, the minority has important rights. But being in a logic of abuse of procedure is likely to upset a number of balances that are the foundation of our democracy. I also believe that there is no fear of debate on the part of any Member of this House who makes up the majority. We wish to have this debate in plenary, so that all the arguments can be presented. But we cannot have this debate for the moment, and that is deplorable. At some point, these procedural abuses could turn against their perpetrators. Some would grow, and we would all benefit from it, to clarify their willingness to have this debate by ensuring that they will not come back incessantly with amendments for which they will ask the Council of State, with justifications that appear to be increasingly wired, if not muddy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u29	Mr Laaouej, you know, the respect of the Council of State you are talking about is also the respect of another institution that our Parliament is. We did not have the impression in this debate that we were respected. Some have said that we have had an opportunity to comment on the preliminary draft and that now everything is folded. We know that there are fundamental differences between the draft and the bill. There was no opinion of the Council of State, while it asked for it itself by saying that it should be reconsulted on the differences. Only the president can ask for the differences between the two texts. We can't do it. In the summary of the various amendments submitted to the Council of State, this request was not included. Again! Then you'll be surprised to say that we're still coming back with the same thing. That is what has been asked from the beginning, both in committee and at each plenary session where the dossier has come. We do ask that the differences between the draft and the bill, those that have not been incorporated by the government, be given the advice of the Council of State. Only the Speaker of the House can make this request, according to the rules. Is there any abuse? No. I don't feel like I'm doing anything. I just feel like I'm making opposition and not the beastly opposition. Mr. Vanden Burre, you spoke of "tired hand." It is indeed a stretched hand that also allows you to return to the table with the opposition and to say that this project is perhaps not calibrated as it should, especially since we know that it applies to all future pandemics. We've been trying to reach out for weeks or even months in this case. We didn't make a flabbus. We have made constructive opposition by presenting you with amendments that could be a compromise between the necessary effectiveness of a government at the beginning of a pandemic and the necessary consultation of a Parliament and association with decisions when the rights and freedoms of everyone are at stake. We simply want to participate in the debate in a much more effective way. We have tabled amendments that have been wiped out with one back of the hand, while some were quite similar to those tabled quickly by the majority wishing to cut the grass under the foot of the opposition. Objectively, this was not a debate. Yes, on the preliminary draft, we had consultations. But, as far as the project is concerned, it has been a step in the right direction. We had to try to slow down the work so we could talk. We want this debate. We want to be partners. We believe that this bill needs to be amended to take into account a multitude of opinions that have arrived, a multitude of citizens who say that the government cannot, over such a long period of time, confiscate rights and freedoms without Parliament being merely informed, as you anticipate in the draft. Through this referral to the Council of State, we ask you to associate the opposition with the decision to possibly review the preliminary draft in this direction. Democracy would benefit if we were all around the table because, when we have to make decisions, you will also count on us to spread them to the population level and to support these decisions. To join, we must try to find a better balance. That's not getting everything we'd like. As it stands, some members of the majority have said, "We will not vote for this text." They have in any case informed citizens' associations. Some have even said it here in committee, saying: "We are bothered with this text." We must be able to go back, not from a blank page, but from the work that has been started, to improve it. The same applies to judicial or quasi-judicial review of measures. We have also tabled texts. We must now take a step towards the opposition to try to achieve something built!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to stress that we are dealing with two different issues here. There is the political debate on the extent to which we involve Parliament in restricting fundamental freedoms. The content of the text goes far too far for us to limit the role of Parliament and delegate powers on fundamental rights and freedoms to the government. That is a political position, and we shall have a debate on it. I hope that we will be able to count on the parliamentary reflex of many colleagues. That is not a point on which the Council of State can deliberate. That is not the point on which we are asking for the opinion of the Council of State. Whatever text may come out of the box, the second concern is that it must be legally sound. Some of our amendments are aimed at this. The opinion of the Council of State on this matter is extremely important, also for the later interpretation of what will ever come out of the bus. I agree with my fellow Members that this should not go to the point of delaying manoeuvres. I don't think this is the case here either. The majority should be grateful to the opposition that we have reduced the pace during the process. In this way we have been able to make many changes, including through amendments by the majority itself, which might have been forgotten if we had not stopped the process in the sense of reflection, second reading or the legal note from the Chambers. So our role so far has not only been constructive, but has also had an effect. As a result, amendments have been tabled by the majority. I must honestly say that it has also surprised me that no other amendments by the majority were tabled today, which result from the opinion of the Council of State. I don't think the advice was properly read. I think that the opinion gave absolute reasons for the majority to remove serious defects from the draft. I haven't seen any lyrics yet. Thanks to our intervention today, there is still time to do so. I would like to respond to a number of comments. There have indeed been experts who have been able to express their views in detail, Mr Vanden Burre, but that was on a preliminary draft which was then fundamentally revised, you and your colleagues from the majority. No expert was given the opportunity to give his or her opinion on the draft submitted. So please do not refer to those hearings, because they no longer have any significance for the opinion on the text as it has been drafted in the meantime. Mr Dewael, you are a lawyer and if you have taken note of the opinion of the Council of State and of our amendment, you will undoubtedly have to agree with me that this is not about filibustering. After all, we are asking a serious question here. Filibustering is not the result of the number of times the Council of State may be consulted, but of the content of the consultation. Does he have any news? Does that make any sense? Is it trying to make improvements with amendments which are indeed important from a legal and technical point of view? I am talking about our amendments, and I do not think we can be blamed for pulling something out of our mind. Mr Verherstraeten, you almost give the impression that you have accused us too much of being in the habit of being in the past few months. We would have copied the initiatives you have recently taken to slow down the pace of the parliamentary process to a certain extent. We then followed you in these initiatives and it seems to me that the term filibustering was perhaps more appropriate at that time than it is now. You also said that I for a long time insisted on a sound undermining of public policy in relation to the pandemic. That's right. However, it is not because I am asking for a better way of working that I am by definition cheering for this pandemic law. I think this is a worse way of working, this is not the answer to the question I have formulated. De facto, it amounts to a power of attorney under the name of pandemic law. You will understand that I am not particularly inclined to start dancing with you here because such a text is being submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also point out that there is no problem. There will certainly be a vote. We will not follow this path infinitely or absurdly, I assure you as someone who takes parliamentary work seriously, Mr Laaouej. Pending that vote, this round does not create any problem for the Council of State, since it is very welcome to present it to Parliament for any measures which the Minister may wish to take. We will debate it and decide with great urgency. This does not require a pandemic law, because it can be done now. There are therefore no obstacles to working in a sound, fair, parliamentary manner. That is why we have used this instrument, which is in fact likely to lose sight of it if it is used rashly, quite decently until today in our view. The word filibustering therefore does not seem appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u31	Madam President, for a good understanding, I did not say the word filibustering. I wouldn't dare. I am pleased that, in rebutting Mr Verherstraeten's argument, Mr De Roover admits that he was guilty of filibustering on the proposal for the termination of pregnancy. At least that's what it comes down to when he says it was more appropriate then than it is now. At the time of the then initiative to consult the Council of State, I was President of the Chamber. At that time we also discussed in detail whether or not to abuse procedures, stalling, unnecessary consultation of the Council of State. That is why, in consultation with the services, I tabled a legislative proposal. Madam President, I do not know what you will decide on when to send to the Council of State and, if so, on what amendments, but I think it would be a useful exercise to consider this issue in the Conference of Presidents. On behalf of my group, therefore, I shall raise this matter at the Conference of Presidents. My proposal of law may be a little dusty, but I'll bring it up so we can discuss it. I'm a lawyer, but I haven't been at the front desk for long. I remember, however, that those who make great use of procedural techniques and delay manoeuvres usually defend a bad dossier. If we cannot make it on the ground, we will indeed start with delaying manoeuvres. I prefer the style of Mr De Smet, who says: I look forward to crossing swords with each other on the ground, rather than having to re-establish in every plenary sitting that we cannot hold the debate on the substance. I regret that, and I repeat it: Parliament must also be able to give a ruling after it has had its say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u32	Madam President, I hope to speak for the last time in particular with a view to reassuring the colleagues of the majority on this issue. If they think there is an abuse of procedure or flibust, this is not the case here today at all. So far, on my request for referral to the Council of State, I have not heard any reply on the substance of my proposal. The majority members who spoke referred to abuse and fliber. You can repeat it as many times as you want! But I have no answer on the substance of my proposal. I would like to make some clarifications. Mr Laaouej, you say that I have the right to table amendments here and send them to the Council of State. That's right! However, I do not have the right to ask the Council of State to consider the amendments between the two texts. I had the right to do it in committee, which I did. A majority vote against the opposition was taken, and the majority rejected it. So that right was taken away from me. And the plenary doesn't give it to me. On the other hand, she gives it to the president, who may seek the advice of the Council of State. This is what I am asking in this House. Mrs. Depraetere, I thought I had already answered your footnote the last time. I may have expressed myself badly or we didn't understand each other. So I'll try again. I shall begin by quoting the footnote you consider: "It is in this regard recalled that it is a constant legislative requirement that the Section of Legislation should not give any new opinion on drafts or proposals of texts which have only been drawn up in response to a prior opinion of the Section of Legislation." That's the problem! The amendments made were not only in response to the opinion of the Council of State. These are new proposals. The Council of State states in its first opinion, and this time I will quote the text and not the footnote: "In case this preliminary draft is amended to take into account comments from this parliamentary debate which would not be intertwined with comments contained in this opinion of the Section of Legislation, the draft will have to be resubmitted to the Section of Legislation." What more do you want? The Council of State itself says that if you make any amendments to the bill that go beyond their recommendations, you have to ask again for the advice of the Council of State. I ask you here to respect the opinion of the Council of State. We are far from the fliber and the game. You're talking about respect for the institutions, respect for the rules. Start by doing it yourself. Why do you refuse to seek the advice of the Council of State on the fundamental changes made to the preliminary draft? Why does the Chair not make an explicit request? Answer me on the bottom, and don't tell me it's flabby! I'm showing you here that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u33	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request for an opinion from the Council of State. I propose that the group chairmen give their opinion on this request for the opinion of the Council of State. I would remind you that these are Amendments Nos 62 by Mrs Matz, Nos 63 to 65 by Mr Boukili, No 67 by Mr Matz. From Roover and Mr. From Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u34	The opinion of the Council of State will be sought as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u35	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kattrin Jadin, Michel De Maegd, Goedele Liekens, Benoît Piedboeuf, Jasper Pills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u36	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1714/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1714/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Flahaut, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u37	Madam President, the proposal that is being discussed here today instead of tomorrow aims to re-establish transatlantic relations after the American elections. This is how it was described in the introduction. The proposal addresses all kinds of issues. It doesn't get concrete at any time. The bottom line is that the proposers see an opportunity with President Biden to revive American-European relations and defend a number of common values and interests. The focus is on European unity, consensus and strategic autonomy in the negotiations with the United States where there is competition and a common approach to shared challenges. The direction one wants to take with these transatlantic relations is often so vaguely formulated for the Flemish Interest that it becomes meaningless in certain segments of the text. The series of themes on which we wish to cooperate with America is merely a list of geopolitical issues, without any concreteization or views in this area. The Flemish interest also attaches great importance to transatlantic relations, especially now that the threat posed by countries such as China and Iran is so acute. In committee, however, I said that the authors of this proposal assume that since Biden's entry into office relations with America are possible again, as if they were not already there under previous President Trump. I don't have to tell you how the collected left-progressive excellence stumbled across each other on Twitter to charm the new president after his inauguration and emphasize a break with his predecessor. It seemed as if the gates of heaven were opening and we would all live happily ever after President Biden was elected and the bearer devil was driven from power. We have tried in committee to get the authors and colleagues who approved this text out of that left-wing liberal dream. President Biden is not exactly known as a peace pigeon, given his support for Obama's interventionist policy in the Middle East, which very often had disastrous, destabilising consequences on the ground. So the question is whether his presidency will bring certain geopolitical issues closer to a solution. For us, asking the question is an immediate answer. Moreover, this proposal has nothing to do with a vague formulation of the vision of transatlantic relations and a list of themes without becoming concrete. The major absent element, entirely in line with the foreign minister's policy letter, is a strategic vision that puts our national interests first. Everything is revisited by an EU lens, poured with a sauce of naivety. According to the proposers, we should negotiate with America as one European bloc and say goodbye to our bilateral relations with the US, otherwise it means internal division. However, what is evident over and over again, especially during this corona crisis, is that each EU Member State shows its own people first and first wipes its own door. It is no different in international relations. Among other things, France, Germany and the Visegrád countries all have their own foreign agenda. Once again, it will not be possible to force them into the same straitjacket as regards transatlantic relations. That is because there is no European nation, we are an amalgamation of nations, with a number of shared values but with a very own national identity. Furthermore, this proposal calls on the government to persuade the US to endorse the bankrupt nuclear agreement with Iran, which has already demonstrated that it still has regional ambitions that it wants to achieve with gross violence and terror. Iran has already used economic resources to invest in missile technology and military support to Shiite terror militias in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Yemen. The country is also responsible for the attack on Iranian opposition groups near Paris. The Djalali case is an excellent example of the fact that this Islamic theocratic regime cannot be trusted at all. It also shows a particularly naive attitude when Iran is once again given the opportunity to damage us, by taking them out of their economic isolation with the nuclear deal that is still ongoing. Trump wasn't wrong when he blew up that deal. We should let the benefit of the doubt play at this time. What is also praised in this text is the Paris climate agreement, which has proved to be very one-sided. It has imposed a number of CO2 restrictions on Western economies, but much less on non-Western growth countries, including the large polluter China. This has led to a large number of heavy industry moving towards the low-wage countries which were allowed to pollute for several years to come according to the agreement and to receive a substantial sum of money for their transition to sustainable energy consumption. In addition, as far as we are concerned, the list of requests contains a number of degrees without content and things that have sometimes been pulled by the hair. It calls for confirmation of our military and political involvement in Iraq, in order to seek an association and an integration-enhancing policy. Iraq is currently hopelessly divided between Kurdish separatists, the federal government and Sunni and Iran-backed Shiite factions, who stand to each other's lives. I don't think an association of Iraq is coming immediately. To argue for this in relations with America is as meaningless as to plead for world peace. Who doesn't want that? But the theory is often different from the practice. In short, we can still build a lot of trees on it, but the proposal was discussed on the substance in committee. We have also paid great attention to it in the hearings. As far as we are concerned, the proposal, as amended and now before the vote, does not contribute to a realistic and clear strategic vision of our national and European foreign policy. It is precisely for that reason that we abstained in the final vote in committee. We shall do so tomorrow in the final vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u38	Madam President, we are flexible. We planned to do that tomorrow. But tomorrow's my birthday. As the author of this resolution, I would have liked to make this speech and this speech tomorrow, but be it! We're flexible and we're adapting. Colleagues, Joe Biden's first trip outside the United States took place a few days ago. We had the opportunity to discuss it in committee: the first was given to the European continent. It is a strong political symbol on the part of Washington, after four years in which President Trump weakened the transatlantic link. Nevertheless, let us not be mistaken in our analysis: beyond its very personal style, the Trump administration was on an American political line which, for some time already, has given Europe less importance than before. Indeed, Washington wants a European partner who assumes his responsibilities, commits himself more and gives himself the means of his commitment, but, we understand, without giving us too much autonomy or freedom from American decisions. Under Barack Obama's dual presidency, the transatlantic bond had become more utilitarian, and Washington was already practicing this American preference that placed its first interests, without much compassion and consultation. The Libyan episode of 2013 is still in all memory and the management of the Afghan case still bears witness to this today. Of course, the foundation of the past is solid: a decisive American commitment to put an end to the two world wars on European soil; a vigorous defence of democracies and political institutions that are representative and controlled by autonomous counter-powers; a common perception of human rights and fundamental freedoms; and the defence of free trade. But the Americans now determine their foreign, military and technological policy through a double prism, namely rivalry with China and its fight against autocracies. This reality can lead to a geostrategic impasse and lead to serious consequences. With regard to China, Biden's approach differs from that of the Trump administration. In the face of China, what is European policy? How can we combine our economic interests, the protection of investment, the confrontation of political systems, the defence of human rights or Taiwan's autonomy? Is this American policy towards China ours? Is it consistent with our interests? Should we marry her as she is? Should we align? I don't think so. If, for the United States, the Chinese threat is crucial and real, the position of Europeans is much more nuanced. China's rise in power is not perceived with the same fear and urgency in Europe. Europeans do not want to enter too much antagonism towards the Chinese partner. Madam President, faced with this reality, Joe Biden's outstretched hand, the resolution of trade disputes or the strength of Article 5, there is another. There is an American will to drag us into their crusades which, on the means used or on the secondary goals, are not ours. Europe is no longer Suez's, which is curving, is no longer that of 1990, which is regaining a geographical unity but is seeking political unity, neither that of 2003, divided on the war in Iraq, nor that of 2009, which sees Obama as the ideal American president. She has been the sole guardian of the temple of multilateralism since 2016 by holding to arms the preservation of the Paris agreement on climate, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on Iran's nuclear power. She is the author of the launch of the ACTA initiative in 2020 to allow the sharing of capacity to fight covid-19 with the most vulnerable countries, before being obscured by Biden's statements in 2021. Europe has been able, since the American election, to reflect on transatlantic renewal, to compile a set of proposals on geographical issues - the Middle East, Iran - and on cross-cutting issues such as democracy, the environment and the informational fight for privacy. This courageous, inventive Europe has seduced me and made me want to reach consensus on a number of proposals that we are going to adopt tomorrow. Europe has managed to achieve its introspection. What model should we adopt on the international scene, to achieve what goal, with which partner? Madam President, in 2021, too, Washington is our natural partner, our instinctive friend, the one with whom we share the most values and interests. On topics that will shape the 21st century such as artificial intelligence, the value chain, rare metals, green technologies, autonomy on semiconductors, the effectiveness of democracy and the protection of privacy, free maritime or space movement, the management of pandemics, we naturally turn to the Capitol, because we know that their ideas are close to ours. Can we have this same reflex towards other countries, whose autocratic drifts are no longer to be demonstrated? Turning to Washington does not mean that we have no idea or that we are unable to assert ourselves alone. Of course, the United States is weakened. With continued polarization and internal divisions, the Americans are no longer even able to recognize the undeniable winner of a presidential election. Their media are cut in half. Their elites are no longer respected by their people, which destabilizes their foreign policy, from one administration to another, and hence their reliability and international credibility. I am convinced that we are facing an opportunity to rebalancing transatlantic relations, at a time when Europe, more united and homogeneous, more coherent with more mature institutions - notably the European Service for External Action of the High Representative - and more sophisticated instruments - Defence policy is continuing, trade policy that takes better account of social and environmental conditionality - can speak with one voice with more credibility. In 2021, we no longer want to be the so disputed junior partner. In the face of Moscow, the European Union must be able to respond, coerce and dialogue, as Josep Borrell recently said. If dialogue is necessary, it is the proper diplomatic function. We have common interests with Washington in Moscow: nuclear disarmament, for example, but treaties are negotiated and signed above our heads. We need to send a number of messages to the US administration to highlight our interests in tactical nuclear weapons, for example. On the Middle East peace process, the establishment of new actors in the United States, Israel and, hopefully, Palestine will have a positive effect on antagonisms. We must re-establish a peace process in the Middle East on the basis of recognized legal diplomatic principles, and we must work together to achieve Israeli-Palestinian and Israeli-Arab normalization, a guarantee of regional peace. But we must dissociate ourselves by denouncing the annexation policy of the Palestinian territories that structurally undermines a two-state policy, this burden sharing within NATO and European strategic autonomy. Let us not forget that the concept of European strategic autonomy has developed far beyond defence and security issues, particularly in the industrial and technological fields. The European Defence Fund for European Development and Capabilities, the drafting of the Strategic Compass, the expansion of European military capabilities within NATO demonstrate this European will to contribute more to the success of the Alliance and thus to weigh more on the definition of its future. I will conclude with Joe Biden's campaign promise: the organization of a world summit on democracy in order to revive minds and reaffirm the common goal of free world nations to strengthen democratic institutions. The events of 6 January 2021 have shaken American Democrats, whether they vote or not. The violent assault on their democratic institutions makes a summit on democracy and its promotion less made in USA. This political violence surpassed the antagonisms exacerbated by unscrupulous media; media whose lack of honesty and pedagogy had already been harmful during Brexit. Europe must engage in this fight and support a democracy that is not an electoral rite. Democracy is pluralistic and independent media, an associative fabric that doubles parliamentary representation without replacing it. They are citizens involved in critical thinking. They are candidates who can run for election because the financial resources allocated to a campaign are limited and controlled. Democracy is also the institutions that operate with counterpowers that can exercise their role. Democracy is a political system that is not innate and indestructible. But to defend democracy, we must not create a league of countries against others. The objective would inevitably be missed in caseu. To defend democracy, we must build bridges, support opponents, convince of the relevance of democracy and its real effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, the European countries and the United States are natural allies, but they have interests that are proper to defend: consultation but respect for the other's opinion; acting together to defend our values but not automatic alignment and European awareness that we will be a little more alone tomorrow, a little more autonomous, which requires additional resources and a clearer policy on our part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the order of business today calls on us to consider a motion for a resolution aimed at relaunching transatlantic relations after the American elections. Thus, the proposal before us today is to relaunch relations of strategic importance with the United States of America, with American imperialism. This is a proposal for a resolution which re-raises transatlantic relations after the American elections. The question that arises is whether Belgium has a strategic interest, both nationally and in Europe, in bonding with the United States of America.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to demonstrate to you today that making this strategic partnership with one of the most aggressive political and economic powers of the last century towards the nations of the world is a bad idea. For the interests of the working population in Belgium, Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, the working population in Europe and in the Third World countries, this strategic alliance between the United States and Europe is a bad thing. I believe that Europe has no interest in working together with one of the most dangerous world powers, the United States. I really want to show you this because today, the economic tensions in the world are dangerous. Why? Because for the first time since 1945, an ultra-dominant economic power like the United States will be overtaken economically by other powers, including China. How does an imperialist power react when it is overcome? It is the experience of the last century that shows us this. It reacts by war because armament is a superiority that is used against other nations to resolve economic conflicts. However, the United States of America has a long tradition of intervention in the internal affairs of other countries. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Charter of the United Nations is very clear. After 1945, a kind of pact was concluded between nations so as not to interfere in the internal affairs of other nations. That was the basis of the end of World War II. The lessons learned are that no country, not even great powers, has the right to intervene in the internal affairs of another country. That was no longer allowed, as that was the cause of the Second World War. Yet these principles have been set aside by the United States of America. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to list the direct and indirect military interventions of the United States of America since 1945. The United States, the American imperialists, intervened in China from 1945 to 1946; Syria from 1949; Korea from 1950 to 1953; China from 1950 to 1953; Iran from 1953; Guatemala from 1954; Tibet from 1955 to 1970; Indonesia from 1958; Bay of Pigs from Cuba from 1959; the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 1960 to 1965; and the Dominican Republic from 1961. In Vietnam ten years, between 1961 and 1973, in Brazil in 1964, in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 1964, in Guatemala in 1964, in Laos from 1964 to 1973. In the Dominican Republic, 1965-66. I'm not finished yet, ladies and gentlemen! American imperialism also intervened in Peru in 1965; Greece in 1967; Guatemala again in the same year; Cambodia in 1969; Chile, with the forced resignation by the CIA of Comrade Allende in 1973; Argentina in 1976; American troops in Angola between 1976 and 1992; Turkey in 1980; Poland in 1980; El Salvador in 1981; Nicaragua in 1981; Cambodia between 1981 and 1995; Lebanon; Grenada; Libya in 1986; Iran in 1987. The United States intervened in Libya in 1989; the Philippines in the same year; Panama in 1990; Iraq in 1991; Somalia between 1992 and 1994. The United States of America intervened in Bosnia in 1995, in Iraq in 1992 to 1996, in Sudan in 1998, in Afghanistan in 1998, in Yugoslavia in 1999 and in Afghanistan in 2001. The United States of America continued to intervene in Iraq between 2002 and 2003; in Somalia in 2006-2007; in Iran between 2005 and today; in Libya in 2011; and in Venezuela in 2019. What can we say about that, ladies and gentlemen? Such a dominant power in the world has taken place in all these countries. What interest do we Belgium, the peoples of Europe, have in strategically linking ourselves to such a dominant power? I am also talking about peace in the world. I have already mentioned the interventions here. To do these interventions, the United States has one of the largest military budgets in the world: 732 million dollars in investment in weapons and military. I'm talking about $732 million! The US military budget alone is larger than that of the next ten countries. The military budgets of China, India, Russia, Saudi Arabia, France, Germany, Great Britain, Japan, South Korea and Brazil together represent less than the military expenditures of the United States of America! I ask you, who is a danger to peace in the world? Who is a danger to peace in the world? These are the United States of America, the imperialism of America, which intervenes with such a large military budget wherever it wishes. I recall that the United States intervention in Iraq and the subsequent embargo have claimed the lives of 1.5 million Iraqis. How can we still have a strategic partnership with a power responsible for the death of 1.5 million Iraqi workers and children? That's the question! For a quarter of half of what other powers in the world would do, sanctions would be called, but here we are silent. Here, we keep quiet because it's the United States, because we let it happen. We are talking about multilateralism and the need for multilateralism in the world. But where is the multilateralism of the United States? Where is multilateralism? The United States has not signed many texts: the Rome Statute, the International Criminal Court, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Convention on Forced Labour, the Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of Freedom, the Kyoto Protocol, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty against the Testing of Nuclear Weapons, the Prohibition Treaty on Nuclear Weapons, the Convention on the Protection of Migrant Workers and their Families, the Convention against Discrimination in Education and Employment. The United States of America, our great ally, simply did not sign all these multilateral texts. They have acted dozens of times in other countries without a mandate, not even the UN. No problem! Why, ladies and gentlemen, should we keep this strategic partner? And for our peoples and those of the Third World, we have no interest in this strategic partnership. I will be told that we are talking about our common standards and values, as indicated in the motion for a resolution in its preamble. What are the common standards and values with the United States of America? Is that Guantanamo? The official torture in a detention centre like Guantanamo, are these our common values? Moreover, on the island of Cuba, in defiance of Cuban territorial independence! This centre is on this island, while Cuba has nothing to say about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u41	Madam President, I feel that my communist colleague is literally rabid. I would have preferred you to take part in the debates in committee. I would also have preferred you to listen to my speech to understand that there is not only one side of the coin but many. There is not only one aspect of cooperation but several. Just as we do elsewhere with other countries. When we condemn violence against fundamental rights, we also say so! That's what diplomacy is all about! It is the very essence of democracy! I know it's complicated for you, democracy, or you're differentiating it. You have other ways to conceive what is democratic or not. I'm a liberal democrat. I am in favour of a balance of powers, including in this chamber. That is why I respect your freedom of speech, but I still have to point out that our colleague did not even attend the proceedings, so he did not even see the frame of the motion for a resolution. That's a little too bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u42	I would just like to ask if you have so much criticism of the United States, why have they never been punished? For those who see the video, we hear flies flying in the assembly. That's the question! It is that, despite the bombings, despite the 1.5 million deaths in Iraq, despite the lack of recognition of all that is happening in Palestine and the abandonment by the Biden administration of Palestine, Europe will never take half a quarter of a sanction against the United States of America. On the other hand, as far as all the other nations of the world are concerned, there is no difficulty in this matter, etc. This is the problem of double standards. And your resolution actually speaks of a strategic partnership. I talked about common standards. The United States of America has 2.2 million Americans in its prisons; 2.2 million Americans are in prison! Is that the common standards? 4.5% of humanity is American. But 22 per cent of the world's prison population is in the United States of America. Are these common standards? Are these the famous common standards compared with the United States of America? With regard to nuclear weapons, the Biden administration is announcing a replacement of the entire US nuclear arsenal of $1.7 billion. Where's the danger to the world? Inter-State relations, let me still talk about inter-State relations. A few weeks ago, everyone here was talking about hacking. There was no evidence of this, but it came from China. The Chinese had hacked into the European Parliament. Everyone was talking about it. It was the fight wanker. But what is the United States of America doing? They're just putting our prime ministers on the phone officially. The American NSA is listening to all of our prime ministers, as with all of Mrs Merkel's conversations via Denmark. What is Europe doing? Nothing! Edward Snowden tells us that the United States, through the Prism programme, is filtering all of our European communications by email. Every email you send here goes through the United States, comes back and is filtered. Nothing is said because it is the United States of America. Why this double standard? Why do we let this kind of question pass? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close my speech by saying that we are at a particular historic moment which presents a great global danger. I take back Marxist thinkers who are close to my heart because I find that the analyses made at the beginning of the 20th century are still relevant. I think what Lenin said about imperialism is interesting. He spoke of the merger between banking capital and industrial capital and how this financial capital, which appeared in the 20th century, had a hegemonic vocation on the world. I believe that this is an important element in the evolution of our history. There has never been a concentration of capital and industrial power as it is today in the world. Of the 100 largest companies in the world, 51 are American. They concentrate millions of workers and billions of dollars. They are more powerful than States. These companies export their capital and need armed force to be able to subjugate markets that would not open their arms to them. That's what's been going on in the last 50 years. Today, given the global economic crisis and the tensions between the great powers, I believe that there is a strategic challenge for Europe and Belgium to reach out to all the powers of the world. The United States of America will lead us into a cold and then hot war. At the last NATO summit – this is not a theory I am talking about here – Mr Biden asked us, Belgium, to follow him in this cold war against China by declaring China to be a systemic rival. I do not agree with that. I hear the debates in the majority. Mrs. Jadin, you're right. I think it would be in our best interest to reach out to all the nations of the world. What does NATO have to do with China? NATO points to the Atlantic Ocean. Since when is China on the Atlantic Ocean? I thought NATO was a transatlantic coalition, that it was the Atlantic! And now that Biden has been in power, I'm finding out that China is on the shores of the Atlantic. That's amazing! And so, France – I hope Belgium will not follow it – sends French military boats in operation with the Americans in the China Sea. But what is Europe going to do in the China Sea? Imagine the Chinese starting to parade in the North Sea with their aircraft carriers! What do we do now? What is this new world order we are doing? The danger of war is great. Why? Because there is an economic crisis. A superpower like the United States of America will not agree to let go of its global hegemony. Today I ask Europe and Belgium not to get into this game. This strategic partnership, as we are being developed today, is not a good thing for the peoples of the world. That is also one of the reasons why the peace movement is gradually becoming more active and active. It is also one of the reasons why a movement against that Cold War has started in the United States and Europe. When Noam Chomsky makes it clear that we'd better sweep first in front of our own door rather than go and point out all the other places in the world where we want to intervene, I think he's right. When this progressive American left calls for a mobilization against the cold war, it is right. Colleagues, you will not be surprised that this text does not win the enthusiastic support of the PTB. I hope that we will be able to continue these discussions in the coming months, because this issue is crucial for the next five to ten years, whether or not the economic crisis, as in 14-18 and as in 40-45, will have a warlike outcome – to which the United States of America is preparing – or peace. The PTB, as an anti-imperialist party, chose its side. We choose the camp of the peoples of the world, that of the peoples of the third world who are suffering today under the domination of these American and European multinationals. We choose the side of this mobilization of the peoples of the world for peace. There is only one power that can profit from the war, and it is that of the business, the arms dealers, the Lockheed Martins, all those companies that make money to arm more and more the American imperialist power. We will vote against this text, ladies and gentlemen, and against all initiatives to join Europe and the United States of America. We hope that Europe will be able to play a role of peace and not a role in defending its own business-based geostrategic interests. We do not want to ride for Philips, for the US multinationals, for Volvo, Renault and tutti quaanti. We want to roll for the peoples of the world, for the workers. And the workers have no interest in these imperialist wars, they have an interest in peace and social progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u43	Madam President, Mr Hedebouw has just portrayed the US as the bearable, imperialist devil with which we should not cooperate anymore, but I will try to outline a more nuanced vision for my group and explain why we will vote in favour of the resolution. Colleagues, cooperation and strategic relations between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the United States on the other have always been based on our common history, but also, as Mr Jadin said, on our common democratic values. These strategic relations have always been and are still essential for the security and prosperity of both partners. The EU and the US have therefore always worked closely together in a number of areas, but also in a number of geographical areas, such as Russia, Ukraine and the countries of the Western Balkans. During Donald Trump's presidency, however, transatlantic cooperation had gotten a lot of pressure and relations had cooled down, but with the change of government in the US on 20 January 2021, the opportunity arose to discuss and define a stronger transatlantic partnership once again. That is why Mr Jadin has tabled the resolution. A stronger transatlantic partnership does not mean that the United States should still come to solve our problems. This sometimes came to light during the discussion in committee, but since the Pax Americana has ended with the emergence of other superpowers such as China, that idea is completely out of date. If strategic relations are to be established, one must also dare to defend one's own interests rather than adopt a submissive attitude. That is exactly what the US is doing, namely to reason for its own interests. We therefore wish to stress in the debate the strategic independence of the European Union vis-à-vis the United States. This also means, of course, that the EU itself must define its interests and values and that the EU must also ensure that it has the necessary instruments to act with the necessary power and to take positions. It is precisely in that context that the resolution should be read, as a definition of a common agenda with topics on which we wish to discuss with the US, in which we do indeed set concrete objectives and define our own interests and values and look for grounds where these interests and values coincide. Many of the common objectives mentioned by the majority in the resolution and the amendments tabled are important to Vooruit. These include social policy, climate, the World Health Organisation and the World Trade Organisation. I would like to highlight some of the points that we wish to emphasise and on which we have tabled amendments. First of all, the government is invited to welcome the agreement reached in the G7 on a minimum tax of 15% for multinationals, which was concluded under the impetus of the US. After all, it represents an important step in the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. It also calls for a constructive and proactive role to be taken together within the OECD. It seems to me that it is an important policy objective to move forward in this area. It is important to work together with different partners in this multilateral world. A second important request in the resolution is to encourage cooperation between the United States and the European Union, with the priority being to drastically improve the availability and affordability of vaccines for the world community. We refer to the Biden government's position on the temporary lifting of patents on corona vaccines. Thirdly, the resolution contains many passages on nuclear disarmament. After all, there are talks between the US and Russia about a reduction in the number of weapons. We must give the signal that we too consider it important. The resolution also states that the United States is encouraged to reduce the number of tactical nuclear weapons in its possession and to communicate about them in a transparent manner. Another point that is mentioned is that the government is being asked to launch talks with the US and Russia on how the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons can give new impetus to multilateral nuclear disarmament and how the multilateral non-proliferation framework can be strengthened. Finally, I would like to mention that the resolution calls on the government to encourage the US to lift the blockade against Cuba. We must therefore send a clear signal that we are taking a different view on this issue. All these things need to be discussed with the United States. Of course, we also support the rest of the resolution and the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u44	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u45	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Daniel Senesael, Mélissa Hanus, Malik Ben Achour, Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot, Laurence Zanchetta.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u46	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1546/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1546/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u47	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution is particularly topical in the light of developments in Flanders over the last few days and weeks. I say this specifically to Mr Senesael, who is not here today. PFAS, a large group of chemicals, is receiving increasing attention from governments because of its persistent character and the fact that these substances accumulate in the environment and thus cause contamination of soil, surface and drinking water. Human beings are exposed to PFAS by air, via water that may be contaminated, among other things, by residues of fire resistant foam containing PFAS, by means of consumer goods and by food through the packaging containing PFAS. Drinking water, fish, fruit, eggs or egg products are the main sources of exposure, with all their consequences for public health. In Belgium, the responsibility for marketing products with PFAS lies with the federal level. However, the Regions are competent for the use, production and waste related to PFAS. Of course, they are also responsible for the quality of the environment, water treatment and clean-up. The Flemish interest is also in favour of a PFAS ban, which completely bans non-essential use and emissions. This must be done as a matter of priority through the European REACH Regulation and its procedures. The Belgian institutional reality ensures that the competence of the provisions contained in the REACH Regulation at European level is spread across the federal level and the regions in this country. The motion for a resolution, at least the initial version, has wrestled with it. Our group would not have approved the first version, because it did not take sufficient account of a number of realities, which were mainly set out by the representative of the Public Health Office, Food Chain Safety and the Environment at an interesting hearing. A number of recitals have been amended by means of amendments, with greater attention being paid to the national action plan for hormone disrupters, in which the regions have an important voice, in addition to the European context. Some of the initial requests were omitted because they were also legally less obvious. We are therefore pleased to note that Mr Senesael is a pragmatic and sensible citizen and, in the final version, which is before us today, has taken back some gas. The aim of the resolution is to ensure greater transparency for consumers as regards the production and use of PFAS. That is why we finally agreed with Mr Senesael's call for efforts to be made in the area of labelling and the requests concerning the studies and the toxicological follow-up in the light of an even more robust scientific consensus on the consequences of PFAS. It is also good that we want to support the initiatives taken at European level to reduce the use of PFAS and increase the recyclability of these substances. In any event, the proposal's author acknowledges that we need the most appropriate means of achieving a real ban on the production and use of PFAS if this is not necessary. He rightly refers to the procedural and thus temporal nature of a number of European measures. Indeed, we need to ban the non-essential use of PFAS. We are very cool lovers of the European Union, but of course we are not blind to the need for a level playing field for our companies. The approach to PFAS should be addressed at European level. For us, the approach and concrete measures concerning PFAS, as announced in the European Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability, can be strengthened or clarified by the Member States. Maximum pressure must be put on the European Commission to ultimately also create opportunities for the competitiveness of our industry through products with safe and sustainable chemicals. We are convinced that most of our companies today are constantly striving to improve the safety and protection of human health and the environment in the processes used and in the products and services that are placed on the market. Meanwhile, we have learned that all the former and current areas of civil protection that may be contaminated with PFAS are now being identified. The same applies to all areas where heavy industrial fires occurred, because when structurally fluoridated fire foam was used, the soil could be contaminated with PFAS. It is, of course, up to the regional ministers to carry out the necessary investigations into pollution and the risks to man and the environment. I hope that the parliamentary committee of inquiry in the Flemish Parliament will expose the bottom stone in the PFOS file in Zwijndrecht. There is not only the concern for public health; we are already establishing an impact on farms that sell directly to consumers. The Federal BFSA is thus also involved in the investigation of the extent of the problem in Flanders and what concrete measures should be taken. The liability of the historical polluter must be accurately demonstrated and the company must be placed in charge of its responsibility. But that will probably take a very long time and turn into a legal battle. Political responsibilities must also be exposed. However, I fear that the classic announcement that there will be less PFOS in nature at the end of the Flemish government than at the beginning of the Flemish action plan will get away with it. Meanwhile, the mayors can explain it to the public and make an inventory of all their sites that may be contaminated with PFAS. We will certainly support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am replacing Mr Daems who has followed the dossier and had the debate in committee. She could not be here because of a change in the agenda, so I will speak. A fierce debate took place between Mr Daems and the authors of the proposal because of the weakening of the text by the authors themselves. For us, the original version of the motion for a resolution was not far enough, and in committee we found that the majority parties tabled collective amendments to replace all the requests in the text with requests which, in our view, are even weaker than the original ones. The present version no longer mentions product responsibility and the weak requirement for mandatory labelling is further watered down as to whether labelling is possible for the most risky PFAS. We don't understand that very well. We do not understand why the proposers of the proposal are limited to the PFAS with the biggest emissions or the biggest risks, because in committee the main proposer himself noted that we should be concerned about PFAS. One of the most important recent scientific insights is that we should consider PFAS as one class of chemicals based on physical, chemical and toxicological properties and environmental properties. This means that the limit values also apply to the sum of the different types of PFAS and not to each type of PFAS separately. It also creates the opportunity to restrict the entire group of PFAS for non-essential use. The latter is also the aim of the European restriction procedure initiated by the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Norway. The proposed approach is completely non-binding. The responsibility is actually shifted to the consumer. The consumer must then decide whether to buy products with PFAS or not. Several types of PFAS have already been proven to be toxic. It is the government that must protect the public and public health. This cannot be left entirely to the individual responsibility of the consumer, especially as the weaker in our society will once again suffer. In our view, Belgium should pro-actively support the current European procedure to ban PFAS for non-essential consumption and take action itself pending the completion of that procedure. With request No 5 in the resolution calls for ambitious initiatives to be supported in the discussion of the proposal in the European Commission, but no one in the committee could answer the question of my colleague, Mrs Daems, which is understood by these ambitious initiatives. The problem of PFAS is currently very important and topical. There is a high level of PFOS pollution in Zwijndrecht. For us, it is primarily about the health of the workers, the residents and the general population. Given the proven toxicity of PFAS, we believe that the government should act. In our view, the measures proposed will not avoid problems such as those in Zwijndrecht. For us, therefore, the motion for a resolution does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u50	Madam President, the most important lesson of the past Corona year is that we are prepared to make many sacrifices when it comes to our health, because our health is truly dear to us. Often it is used as a boltade, but someone who is healthy has hundreds of wishes and who is sick has only one wish. The entire current discussion in Flanders about harmful substances such as PFOS and PFAS is also related, because in the end this discussion is about our health. Citizens do not want their health to be soldered. People are so angry, because in 2021, in our information society where they are only a few clicks away from all possible available information about such substances, they, rightly, no longer accept that companies or politicians play with their health or withhold information. They do not accept that corporate income is placed above the health of citizens. Whether or not that has happened in Flanders, I do not know, so I am in favour of it being investigated and in the coming months it will become clearer. By the time I heard the consequences, I was corrupted, as I said in committee. When I read that the neighbors were advised not to eat eggs from their chickens, to leave the vegetables out of their garden and best not to use groundwater, I was catapulted right into the 80s. As a child, I lived in a region that was heavily polluted by cadmium and heavy metals. The measures at that time were identical to the measures now being announced in Zwijndrecht. In the 1980s we wrote letters, not every family had a mobile phone and the newspaper was the most important means of information. However, pollution of this magnitude will still be possible in 2021, which will once again put thousands of families in uncertainty, which will become particularly uncomfortable, because families with children are not happy with such measures. So it's very clear to Vooruit. Hopefully, the PFOS scandal in Flanders is an ultimate lesson and no one gets away with the production of certain products or substances with health risks. I am therefore very pleased with the work done by Mr Senesael. He understood that in good time. His motion for a resolution is indeed not comprehensive. It certainly won't solve all the problems. There is probably still a lot of information not known today either. However, the text requires greater transparency on these substances and better research. That is a very good step, but for Vooruit it is an intermediate step to achieve more regulatory work in relation to PFAS. Health is at the top of this. Caution must force us not to repeat the same mistakes of the recent past. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore certainly support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u51	Colleagues, the problem of soil contaminated with PFOS is on a worrying scale in Flanders, where Wallonia holds a rather reassuring official speech. However, other voices were raised, notably on the SPAQuE side, to say that if solutions were not found in Wallonia, it was because until recently, the PFAS content was not systematically tested. Even in Brussels, traces of PFOS were found in rivers. This time again, we are facing a major crisis: one million of our citizens are directly affected by the only pollution detected in the Antwerp suburbs, which, according to the information available, has lasted for at least 20 years. Given the stability of the substances in question, it will take heavy and costly interventions to clean up and leave the soil. The case is shaking Flanders. It could have happened anywhere in the country. We very much hope that we will not limit ourselves to a refusal of a label, when we are once again, after dioxin, after Fipronil, facing a public health crisis. A few days ago, Ms. Verlinden requested an inventory of the sites affected by these phenomena. That is indeed necessary. Yes, of course, we will support this resolution, which is the result of serious and intense parliamentary work. As a reminder, this text was tabled in October 2020. It has been the subject of several written opinions, many of which have resulted in amendments to the original text. I would like to highlight the first two requests to the government. Firstly, for our group, it is essential that, in the interests of transparency, products containing PFAS can be immediately and clearly identified when they are placed on the market. This is not only about consumer safety, but also about the wider population as a whole. Secondly, my colleague Sophie Rohonyi has already had the opportunity to ask ministers about the role of endocrine disruptors in increasing the risk of cancer. The second request to the government is therefore fully in line with this logic and deserves broad support. It is essential that, in the national action plan on endocrine disruptors, the carrying out of toxicological tests on PFAS be contained, with strict respect for the welfare of animals. Finally, we invite the government to go even further, in consultation with the Regions. At a time when we are committed to a circular economic approach, i.e. taking into account the environmental costs and the treatment of waste related to the activity, it seems essential to work in this direction with the companies concerned. We therefore ask the government to go further, both in the management of the existing pollution identified and in the preservation of new contaminations of our soil. If we understand that progress must be made at European level, it would be good if Belgium, as it has done in other areas, played its pioneering role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u52	Madam President, thank you for your flexibility. With the change of schedule, we weren't sure we could be on time. I have spoken in committee, as well as my colleagues in Groen, and I fully acknowledge myself in various speeches that have been made. I think the text of our PS colleagues is timely when we see the PFOS scandal in the Antwerp region. There is an urgent need to move forward to preserve not only our environment, but also our health. It is clear to environmentalists that PFAS is a pollution that we have known for a long time. The Teflon scandal already dates back to the 1990s and we can only be surprised at the slow pace of our public policies when it comes to protecting people and our ecosystems from the most serious pollutants. The text of our PS colleagues is in the right direction. It has been the subject of complex, difficult parliamentary work, but it has the advantage, by being a first step, of being also innovative on the question of labelling. Indeed, this point is not foreseen at European level. Many colleagues say that progress must be made at European level. Of course, but nothing prevents the Member States from being proactive. Denmark, in particular, has banned PFAS in food packaging. This shows that a Member State can move forward to protect its population from this type of pollutant. The PS text therefore innovates in relation to what Europe can do in terms of labelling, and is a first step in the right direction. We insist that this is only a first step, but we will be very happy to support it when it comes to voting, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u53	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the change in timetable, I am here to replace my colleagues, in particular my colleague Senesael, who has worked very hard on this motion for a resolution, and who has put his heart to it. As colleagues have pointed out, the work has been a long one. He's been serious and he's finally on the point of succeeding. I will read to you what he would have wanted to say to you: "Let me stress, if necessary, that current events demonstrate in a satisfactory and important way the urgent need to fully consider the risks to the population posed by the PFAS. I say to the whole population, because there are similar facts to those observed in Zwijndrecht and they have been so elsewhere, as in Peer in Limburg, to mention only Belgian cases. Such cases could still be discovered in other regions in the future. In view of this, it is now more necessary than ever to give more transparency to these ubiquitous toxic substances in our consumer products and in our environment. Indeed, MEPs have mentioned this in committee in recent months, although largely unknown to the general public, PFAS pose real environmental and health risks to our people. As a reminder, PFAS represents several thousand chemicals, a number of which have been associated with the following properties: high persistence, bioaccumulation and high mobility in air, water and soil. The toxicity data obtained from these substances correlate the accumulation of these substances in the body with the development of pathologies and, in part, with endocrine dysfunction, kidney cancer, testicles, increased cholesterol levels, decreased birth weight and height, and decreased vaccine response in children. Unfortunately, this list is not exhaustive. While not all PFAS have been tested for toxicity, studies on the subject have been increasing for several years, while analytical processes are improving and the number is increasing. However, it should be noted that all available toxicological data on these substances justify considering PFAS today as a group of concern! PFAS is currently used in a wide range of industries, including textiles, food, construction, cooking, chemistry, pharmaceuticals and agriculture. They can be found in many products: clothing, food packaging, materials, coatings, adhesives, kitchen utensils, disposable dishes, fire-fighting foam, pesticides and I pass them. Due to the use of these products and their dispersion in the environment via, inter alia, waste, their contamination of food and drinking water, the presence of PFAS in the human organism appears to be widespread or almost widespread in several European countries, including France and Germany. It should be added that worrying concentrations above the tolerable threshold have been documented in French and German population groups and, in particular, in young children. These toxic substances are, as I said, unfortunately largely unknown to the general public. However, a number of significant cases of PFAS-contaminated populations have been reported or disseminated by the press in Europe in recent years. In the vicinity of Dordrecht in the Netherlands, two types of PFAS have, for example, been found in significant quantities in drinking water, notably through contamination of the local watercourse, nature and air. This form of pollution was allegedly caused by the Teflon plant on the outskirts of the city and was the subject of consideration and political initiatives. For several decades, a chemical plant in Veneto, for its part, contaminated a vast area of the region, including water from a groundwater table and flowing into a territory of more than 700 km2 between Verona, Vicence and Padua. The number of people exposed to tap water contamination has been estimated at 350,000! Very recently, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, the press informed us that a plant in Zwijndrecht in the province of Antwerp would have released large quantities of PFOS into the environment until the early 2000s, namely that PFOS is a type of PFOS recognised by the European Union as a priority hazardous substance and whose production, marketing and use has been prohibited in the European Union since 2004. Despite this European ban, however, very high concentrations of PFOS have recently been documented in the local environment, which is heavily populated and especially in its soil. This text, which my colleagues tabled on 3 October 2020, falls more than ever before. Through this resolution, we call for stricter rules to frame PFAS and products containing PFAS. It is time for greater transparency and control over the production and use of these toxic and dangerous substances. Among the flagship and original measures of this text, we propose the introduction of labelling for PFAS and products containing PFAS. It is truly an unprecedented measure that places our country as a real pioneer in this field. The European REACH Regulation, which contains restrictive measures on PFAS, does not, as such, provide for rules on labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. Our request for national labelling is intended to be complementary to REACH measures and not a supernumerary measure. The introduction of labelling is also appropriate to enable businesses, professional customers and consumers to become aware of the risks associated with the manufacture, use, placing on the market and purchase of PFAS or products containing PFAS related to the most significant emissions and risks. In particular, this measure could help to avoid the use of PFAS in the manufacture of products, as is the case with many companies operating globally and to promote the use of alternatives. In addition, it would allow our fellow citizens to make informed choices when purchasing. Furthermore, the presence of labelling on products containing PFAS could improve the management of these products once disposed of and their recycling, since waste is, as has been said earlier, one of the sources of PFAS emissions to the environment. On the other hand, our knowledge of the toxicological properties of all PFAS is not exhaustive. Zwijndrecht's pollution phenomenon shows that even imagining that all products containing PFAS disappear at the moment of the earth's surface and that their production is prohibited, it would not be possible to conceive that emissions and exposure related to their past pollution would at the same time be annihilated. Due to the persistence of PFAS, the problem of PFAS is a long-term problem. Therefore, it is now necessary to know as much as possible the characteristics of these PFAS and, first of all, the risks associated with past and future PFAS emissions and exposure. That is why we have also asked to include in the NAPED action plan the carrying out of toxicological tests on PFAS and to support research at European level on the structures, detection and toxicity of PFAS. We have also called, through our resolution, for the prohibition of Eco-labeling on products containing PFAS to be defended at European level. But again, given the ubiquitous pollution of PFAS, the sprawling nature of the problem and the European timetable for these toxic substances, we also wanted to include in our text the request to support ambitious measures at European level to ban non-essential uses of PFAS. Finally, we advocate strengthening European research with a view to improving the treatment and recycling of products containing PFAS, reducing their landfilling and incineration. This request was particularly motivated by the fact that, in many European States, many articles containing PFAS are still simply thrown into landfills where they can contaminate the environment and by the fact that waste containing PFAS is now largely incinerated. As things stand, this method does not allow for the complete degradation of the PFAS, but does mean that they are released into the air. This method produces significant greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore necessary to find solutions to these problematic elements. Finally, in the context of the circular economy, we must also strive to improve transformation and recycling. It is therefore necessary to study at European level to what extent this can be possible for PFAS products in the future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that is the purpose and ambition of our text. Allow me to thank all those who have contributed to its elaboration, the colleagues who have co-signed a series of amendments with us, and the experts who have responded here to enlighten us, particularly in the context of the hearing we had on the subject. This is a first step that calls for others to address this issue of particular concern to our environment and health. This text will allow, and it is a European first, to put in place labelling of products containing PFAS, measures to better recycle them and to call for toxicological studies in this field. My group wants to go further and follow up with countries such as Denmark, which have banned all PFAS from their paper and cardboard food packaging or disposable dishes, and ban PFAS in non-essential products by 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u54	Madam President, I thank Parliament for its initiative. Your resolution today responds to what is happening in and around Antwerp. I support the requests and confirm that I convened an interdepartmental Health and Environment Conference on July 8 to discuss the issue. Colleagues can exchange the information they have and see to what extent we can prepare for the future so that such incidents can no longer happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u55	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u56	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Séverine de Laveleye, Barbara Creemers, Laurence H annoyée, Evita Willaert, Stefaan Van Hecke, Marie-Colline Leroy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u57	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1522/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1522/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Raskin; he refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u58	Madam President, it is true that this is a text that we have carried, together with my colleague Barbara Creemers. She would have wanted to be here today to present it in her turn. But we are not going to say that again a hundredth time: changes in agenda are sometimes complex. I am therefore pleased to present it briefly today, as I was able to do in committee. A brief reminder of the context of this resolution. This is a text that we submitted in 2020, the year of biodiversity. This would end the United Nations Decade for Biodiversity. This decade was to end with the United Nations COP 15 and open a new chapter for biodiversity. As we know, the crisis of the Covid-19 prevented the holding of this COP 15, which is postponed in the autumn of this year. It's all over again. The ambitions are there and they are strong. The second important factor in the context of this resolution is, of course, the health crisis that we are facing. We know it or not, there is a strong presumption that covid is the result of a zoonosis. The loss of biodiversity increases the risk of epidemics by zoonoses. Experts have been warning for a long time that with increased human displacement, deforestation and climate change, a new era of epidemic risks has begun. The health context in which we are in particular concerned us with the absolute need to radically rethink our lifestyles, our production and consumption patterns, with a view to preserving our biodiversity. That was a second contextual element of our resolution, which it was important to put forward today. The third is obviously the collapse of ecosystems. There is a consensus that humanity is facing an unprecedented double crisis today: climate change on the one hand, and the collapse of ecosystems on the other. We are faced with what many analysts call "the sixth mass extinction". This sixth mass extinction has a specificity in relation to others: it is the first which is directly attributable to a living being, that is, to the human being. As I said in committee, we have a few figures that illustrate this sixth mass extinction. They are reported by IPBES in its 2020 report, which points out, inter alia, that approximately 1 million animal and plant species are at risk of extinction out of eight million known species, that 75% of the land surface and 66% of the marine environment have been significantly altered by human action, that 200 to 300 million people are now at increased risk of flooding and hurricanes due to loss of natural coastal protection, that plastic pollution has increased tenfold since 1980, and that 300 to 400 million tonnes of heavy metals, solvents and other toxic substances are discharged annually into rivers and oceans. These are only a few key figures, but they are important for us to measure the biodiversity risks we face. The causes of biodiversity loss have been highlighted very well, not least by IPBES, but also by other experts. They identify five direct factors that contribute to changes that affect biodiversity. The first is the change in land and sea use, particularly in agriculture, forestry and mining. The second is the direct operation of certain organizations. This is about hunting and intensive fishing in particular. The third is climate change. At this level, I would like to recall that on 10 June, the IPCC and IPBES released their first joint report stating that neither of the two issues (biodiversity, climate) can be successfully resolved unless they are addressed together. Indeed, climate change leads to loss of biodiversity and loss of biodiversity affects the climate as organisms such as trees and oceans absorb some of the greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore important to understand that we are facing two crises that are reinforcing each other and that cannot be resolved without each other. As such, we had very interesting hearings a year ago in the parliamentary committee. The fourth cause of ecosystem collapse is pollution: pesticides and chemical inputs used in agriculture, plastics and microplastics, heavy metals, etc. As such, the latest OECD report on the environment in Belgium shows that our country is a very poor student in pesticide use and shows us the impacts, in particular, on soil and water quality. It is therefore very recent reports that call for ambitious political decision-making. The last cause of ecosystem collapse is invasive alien species. The impacts of biodiversity loss are very diverse. Without resuming them all, since I have reminded them quite at length in committee, I would like to point out that the first impact is an economic impact. The risks associated with the collapse of our ecosystems on our economies are recognized in particular by the World Economic Forum and everyone agrees that there is no economy and agriculture in a degraded environment. The explanations put forward that we should still preserve our economy when we try to fight for the preservation of our climate and our biodiversity are misleading arguments. Indeed, I insist, there is no economy and agriculture possible in a degraded climate and environment. The second major impact in the face of the collapse of ecosystems is the impact of our food systems and our access to water. As is well known, I have developed it extensively in committee, notably the FAO, believes that biodiversity is a fundamental element in ensuring food security and nutrition. We see that, in the face of the collapse of ecosystems, there is no agriculture possible and therefore no worthy food possible for all human beings on the planet. There is obviously an impact in terms of health. We are entering a new epidemic era, the number of zoonoses is exploding for now and will explode in the coming decades. It is therefore absolutely important to preserve our ecosystems. An important impact that the covid crisis has shown us is the impact in terms of well-being. As we saw during this crisis, we need nature for our mental and physical health. It is therefore absolutely necessary to preserve and integrate it as a factor of well-being as such. The kind of impact that must always be put forward is that of global injustice. The countries of the South and the most impoverished populations in us are the most affected populations, when we talk about the collapse of ecosystems. This is already the case, and it will only get worse in the years to come. In the face of these findings, the international community is mobilizing itself. Thus, in 1992, the United Nations established the Convention on Biodiversity, which today calls on us to review new objectives in terms of biodiversity protection within the framework of COP15. We will do this in the coming months and we hope that our government will be up to date in the preparatory negotiations for this COP15. At European level, many things have changed over the past year with the new biodiversity strategy and with the new farm to fork strategy, which is waiting to be transposed into our Belgian strategies. It is within this framework that we are carrying our resolution today. At Belgian level, of course, we have a primary responsibility to transpose European strategies at the level of our regions, but also at the federal level. Indeed, it would be wrong to think that all the levers are at the regional level. That's not the case! We have leverage at the federal level. Mrs Margehm reminded us of this in our parliamentary debates three weeks ago. We recalled our responsibility in terms of deforestation but also in terms of placing toxic products on the market, and other levers. It is at this level that our resolution has focused on calls at European level to finally have a binding strategy. We cannot simply have strategies, without binding rules to ensure that our companies and our Member States are proactive in their efforts to protect biodiversity. A wide range of applications have also been submitted at both the federal and international levels. I will not develop them now, because I have done so in committee, but it seems to me important today to be able to vote on them in plenary. I will close my speech by thanking the colleagues who have been involved in this resolution as well. This is Parliament's most successful resolution in terms of biodiversity. It's not annoyance! It is true that we have been talking about climate for a long time, but it was time for the issue of biodiversity to be put as an extremely important political object in itself. This is the exercise we have done with this text. I am pleased to present it in the presence of the Minister of the Environment, Climate and Green Deal, who is here to hear our requests. I thank the colleagues who have amended this text, with us, and who have supported it during the parliamentary debate in committee and who will hear it again today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u59	Mrs de Laveleye, when you presented the initial version of your resolution in committee, we were extremely critical. The text was, of course, written for the establishment of this government coalition. A number of aspects were also literally reflected in the coalition agreement, but above all in the policy paper of Minister Khattabi. In the end, you have come up with more than 20 amendments that have updated your text. Of course, you could only propose a new recital when the OECD report in March 2021 did not directly praise the country's biodiversity performance, despite the fact that then Prime Minister Wilmès, in the context of a UN Summit on Biodiversity, expressed Belgian support for the Leader's Pledge for Nature. There is no shortage of good intentions from this country and this government. For example, Belgium joined the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership in December 2020, an alliance that advocates sustainable raw materials without deforestation. It is indeed necessary to promote the market introduction of sustainable basic products in Belgium. Colleagues, which we do question, are legally binding EU objectives. Even in the area of much-needed nature restoration, this always sounds a bit straightjacket. It is good that, in a new request, you emphasise that the ambition and targets of the European Commission's 2030 biodiversity strategy can only be achieved in consultation with regional authorities and stakeholders. Moreover, it also states that this can only be done subject to an impact assessment. Of course, the federal government still has a number of powers in its hands, such as product standardisation, the protection of the marine environment. The question is whether the current constitutional order, with a number of federal, residual powers, is appropriate when it comes, for example, to nature and the environment in the sea. Mr Loones has tabled an interesting legislative proposal in this area and gives examples in his explanatory statement: "A fish that swims in the sea is still under federal responsibility, but once it is picked up and brought ashore, it is Flemish. Seals in the sea or resting on a buoy are today protected by the federal law protecting the marine environment in the sea areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium. But if the same seal is sunbathing on the beach, then the Flemish Species Decision is on the agenda. Flanders can today conclude conventions on environmental protection at sea, even on Antarctica, but will not be responsible for its implementation, because Flanders can only do so on its own territory. The federal government must then implement treaties that it itself has not concluded and exercise material powers that it does not itself have competence for." Colleagues, biodiversity is also an important focus for the Flemish interest. Global deforestation is also a matter of concern to us. We are committed to the global fight against the degradation of ecosystems, not just forests. We also agree that biodiversity is, and must be, a cross-cutting focus, and can only be embedded in a wide range of sectors, not least agriculture. Agriculture and diversity, let that be a great concern for our group, Mrs de Laveleye. It is a good thing that, in your request for an ambitious reduction in the use of pesticides, you state that special attention should be paid to farms in this country so that they are not placed in a competitive disadvantage, without losing sight of the need for farmers to earn a decent income. Last Friday, we found that, after long negotiations, an agreement was reached between the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Member States on the future of European agriculture, which more than ever took the road to sustainability. Farmers who want to make additional efforts in the areas of biodiversity, climate or animal welfare will now rightly receive additional support for this. One of the bottlenecks in recent months was how much money from direct income support would be reserved for so-called eco-schematics and eco-schemes, such as organic crops or the construction of natural buffer strips around fields. A compromise has now been reached on this. Member States should reserve 25% of direct income support for this purpose and 35% of the rural development budget should be reserved for climate and environmental policy. At least 3% of agricultural land should go to biodiversity. In any case, unconditional European payments to farmers will be less and less, not to say that almost all aid will be given under conditions. The first pillar, direct payments, will be subject to greening measures even more than is already the case today. This will also be the case for the second pillar, including the management agreements. The pressure for greater attention to agricultural biodiversity must always take account of the economic impact and the earning model, the economic return of farmers. In the end, the farmer as an entrepreneur must remain central. The European 'farm-to-table' strategy and the European biodiversity strategy, which is explicitly mentioned in this resolution, are not innocent to our farmers. It concerns conversion to more organic farming, an increase in non-productive areas on farms, a reduction in manure use, antibiotic use and plant protection products. All these objectives have an effect on the production, consumer prices and farmers' incomes. With his abstention from the vote in committee, the Flemish Interest has explicitly and as the only group wanted to draw attention to this. We found it strange that this resolution was pretending that there was already a new EU Common Agricultural Policy, while the debate was in full swing. In addition, in recent weeks there have been burdensome reports on the negative effects of the Green Deal on agriculture, in which, for example, the European 'farm-to-table' strategy is framed. A compromise has been reached on this issue today. On Monday, European agriculture ministers approved the compromise reached with the European Parliament on the future of European agricultural policy. The Flemish interest continues to stress that farmers must be able to follow the path of sustainability. If the emphasis is only on greening measures, it is forgotten that agriculture is also an economic sector and that farmers have to get their income out of it. The profit margins are already very small. If farmers are to invest, they must have a proper income. The UN Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, COP15 in Chinese Kunming, in October, is very important to tackle the global decline in biodiversity. Many Flemings are also aware of this. That is why, despite our reservations about certain passages, we shall be voting in favour of this resolution tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is on the PFAS resolution that was discussed just before the debate on the resolution for the implementation of the European biodiversity strategy, in order to ensure its protection, or on this subject, a great deal of work has been done. As you know, Mrs de Laveleye, and I would like to thank all colleagues in the committee for this deep debate and for these resolutions, both of them, to be in line with the enormous demands on these matters. On biodiversity, next October will take place in the Chinese city of Kunming, the international summit on biodiversity, also named COP 15 Biodiversity, which was originally scheduled to take place in October 2020. At this international summit, the various delegations will review the progress and results of the implementation of the 2011-2020 Strategic Plan for Biological Biodiversity. It is also expected that the final decision on the post-2020 global biodiversity framework will be taken in parallel with decisions on related issues, including capacity-building and resource mobilization. This resolution is therefore perfectly within the framework of this COP 15 which aims to protect biodiversity around the world. It is important to stress that this resolution is fully in line with the government agreement. Indeed, it is planned that, in consultation with the federated entities, the government will bring the national biodiversity strategy into line with the European Biodiversity Strategy and the Green Deal. To this end, the Government will actively build the necessary synergies with other political plans. We therefore support the intention of the text of this resolution to have the Federal State cooperate with the Regions in the protection of biodiversity while also providing for a dialogue with all civil society stakeholders. At this point, I would like to take a parenthesis, Madam President, to reply to my colleague who was talking earlier about the nice seals that swim in the North Sea and who sometimes come to land on the coasts of our country to take some rest. These coasts of our country, of course, are the coasts of a territorial whole, a part of which is legally concerned with the land and not with the sea. The North Sea is to the north. This part of the land is regionalised and is governed, as far as the environment is concerned, by our Flemish friends. This is, for example, the case of the protection of biodiversity in this area. Therefore, the seal does not know that, when it is in international waters, it is international, that when it is in federal waters, it is federal, and that, when it comes to rest on the land of our country, it is Flemish. As far as I am concerned, I am for Flemish, federal and international seals. If this brave little beast is in danger, if it is wounded, I hope that a ship that crosses it on international waters, therefore outside our federal waters, will help him to restore it. I hope that a ship that crosses this injured seal in our federal waters will help it recover. And I hope that if Mr. Van Lommel sees on the beach of Ostend the seal which he will deal with. At least that's what I want. I still want to say that the resolutions we are discussing here are very serious. But see what they bring in terms of debate! The bill Mr. Loones is about to introduce on the regionalization of the North Sea is also a kind of smiling wink. It's a proposal to make you laugh. Indeed, the land and the sea should not be confused, even if it sometimes covers the land at high tide, and at low tide it recedes very far. Finally, we no longer know where the border of Flanders is. The Dutch know this very well, because they are gaining ground on the sea. So let's not confuse the land with the sea. The North Sea, which is in the north-east of the Federal Republic, and the land of our country, which is in the north, is in the hands of Flanders and is governed by Flemish regional policy. We agree. Otherwise, tomorrow, I would like to table a bill calling for the Belgian coastline to be divided into two parts: part of the Belgian littoral land for the Flemish and part for the Walloons and the Brussels. I'm coming back, seriously, to our case. With this text of resolution, we stress the work already carried out at European level. It is like CO2, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister: CO2, we are dealing with it at all levels of our state, at federal and regional level, both in Flanders and in Brussels and Wallonia. But CO2 is everywhere. The atmosphere is everywhere. And the sea is global. She's everywhere. It doesn't stop at the borders. The sea, even the North Sea, has no boundaries. It is therefore obvious that it is European and global directives that govern everything, and that we are declining in our territory. Indeed, with this text, we have in our territory, at all levels, all the European work that has been carried out, which is based on two strategies. These two 2030 strategies are "From Farm to Table" and "Biodiversity to 2030". So, "From the sea to the table." Oysters and mussels up to the plate of all Belgians, even if they were fished in the North Sea? More seriously, and I conclude, Madam President, the resolution presented today is intended to support European and global actions to combat the causes of biodiversity loss: changes in land use: deforestation; intensive monoculture; urbanization and excessive urbanization on the coast north of our country, for example; direct exploitation, such as overfishing in the federal sea; pollution or invasive alien species. Our group therefore welcomes the fact that if the European Commission proposes binding targets, they will be subject to an impact assessment. In conclusion, Madam President, we will support this text, as well as the previous one, in the objectives they pursue and which place the fight against PFAS and the fight for the protection of biodiversity as major challenges to our environmental challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u61	Madam Secretary, I am here to replace my good colleague, Greet Daems. Ladies and gentlemen, we support this motion for a resolution. It contains steps in the right direction, although it remains rather good. Indeed, one remains within the chalk lines of what is feasible in the current political configuration of the majority, so that one does not really depart from what is necessary to effectively address the loss of biodiversity. However, the applicants know perfectly what is needed, since they refer in their explanatory notes to the measures proposed by IPbes, whether or not together with the IPCC. It is a pity that these measures were not formulated as requests. The biodiversity crisis is very serious. The explanatory statement to the motion for a resolution quite rightly states that, in addition to climate change, biodiversity loss is one of the most important existential threats to our planet. The crossing of that planetary boundary will also result in other planetary boundaries being crossed. So it's basically some kind of cascade effect. According to the latest state of science, we have actually already crossed the planetary limit for biodiversity loss, at least as far as the measurable part is concerned. We do not know yet whether we are so far above it that the situation is already irreversible. There is currently a growing extinction wave of many species. If we fail to reverse the curve, the consequences will be invisible. We must therefore be as ambitious as possible to tackle the problem. The original text of the proposal actually lacked ambition in the approach to the EU Biodiversity Strategy. Our group therefore tabled an amendment to correct that, which unfortunately was not accepted. After that, however, an amendment to the same effect was tabled by the majority, with which our original amendment was recognised. We are therefore pleased that our amendment, which seeks to delete the call to support the EU's green taxonomy, has paid off, because that green taxonomy has been strongly influenced by lobbies and contains a lot of things that we do not think belong in it. I am thinking here of biofuels and biomass from forestry. Such activities are not at all in line with the objective of protecting biodiversity. It is a pity that our amendment did not succeed; a similar amendment by the majority tabled after ours was adopted. We also tabled two amendments before the vote in committee to raise the issue of deep-sea mining and biofuels, because of course they are very closely linked to the loss of biodiversity. However, it was no surprise to us that these amendments were voted down, because in the case of deep-sea mining and biofuels, the government is pursuing a policy that runs counter to the protection of biodiversity. Government policy and the text before us bear witness to a certain degree of dispersion: on the one hand, Belgium is a blue leader, but on the other hand, it continues to facilitate investment in deep-sea mining, which is extremely destructive for marine biodiversity. On the one hand, the government says it wants to combat imported deforestation, which causes habitat destruction and biodiversity loss, but on the other hand the government continues to focus on biofuels, which are responsible for a great deal of imported deforestation. Before the final discussion of the motion for a resolution in committee, a large number of amendments were tabled by the majority last minute. Apparently, that's the modus operandi now. It has become very common practice that any proposal by a majority party should first be knocked off in the government and often amended to death. Some of the amendments tabled by the majority did, however, mean that some vague requests were made, which was a good thing, but other amendments clearly weakened the text. We are thinking here of removing the request to deal with tracers. The most flagrant feature was the adjustment of the request to exchange gross domestic product for some more social and environmental indicators. That request has been watered down twice. First, the social and environmental indicators were not allowed to replace gross domestic product, but only to complement it, and then the examples of such indicators were deleted from the request. As a result, gross domestic product remained the only concrete indicator in the request. So much for our criticism, reservations and reservations. The motion for a resolution is anything but perfect, but it is moving in the right direction. The PVDA Group will therefore vote in favour of the text, although, of course, many initiatives will have to be taken to deal with biodiversity issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u62	Madam President, allow me to make a first point that is out of the question. When I listened to my colleague Marghem, I began to dream that one day we could talk with as much benevolence about the men who are stranding on our coasts as about the seals that fail there. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for several decades, as a result of human activities, biodiversity is constantly deteriorating and several species are threatened with extinction. It is said, it is said again, but obviously it has not been repeated enough to do everything possible to stem this phenomenon. Indeed, despite the introduction of policies aimed at halting the decline in biodiversity, biodiversity has accelerated to become a major ecological problem. With global warming, the loss of biodiversity is the other serious threat to the human community, as we have already repeated many times in committee. According to IPBES, global warming is itself one of the causes of the decline in biodiversity. Other direct factors of change that affect nature and have the greatest global impacts are changes in land and sea use, direct exploitation of certain organisms, pollution, and invasive alien species. In particular, it is clear that the use of certain fertilizers and pesticides is a major problem, of course included among others, but which generally results in the loss of biodiversity as well. Not to mention global deforestation, intensive monoculture or growing and unreasoned urbanization. As mentioned in the amendments that we have tabled – together with the groups that make up Vivaldi – to this motion for a resolution, the European Commission does not fail to note the negative effects of pesticides in its biodiversity strategy and in its farm-to-farm strategy. Similarly, the European Biodiversity Strategy also aims to combat global deforestation, which is also a matter of great concern to FAO and UNEP. We will come back to this at a later stage when we discuss the motion for a resolution that our group has initiated with my colleague Mélissa Hanus, aimed precisely at preserving our biodiversity and preventing the emergence of new pandemics. Suddenly, however, I would like to make a connection with the crisis of the covid-19. This crisis has reinforced the detected trends related to biodiversity loss, which remind us, in particular, that the full implementation of Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are crucial to strengthening the resilience of our societies and preparing us for future shocks. What is all the more worrying is that the covid-19 pandemic occurred in 2020, a year that should have been particularly burdened with biodiversity. Several times staggered and now scheduled in October 2021, the COP 15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity was originally scheduled to be held in October 2020 in China, as well as the World Conservation Congress, which, before being staggered in September 2021, should have been organised last June in Marseille by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. All these umpteenth deadlines must, in particular, serve us more than ever to take strong measures. There is no lack of this text. Allow me, by the way, to welcome the work done by its authors and by the majority on the amendments, and in particular the authors of the environmental group. In an alarming context, our goal must be to restore biodiversity and nature not only for what they are, but also for the many services they offer to human beings. We will never say enough: to protect nature is to ensure the future of man. To work for the preservation and restoration of biodiversity is to act for our environment, our health and our quality of life. Hence our obvious and indisputable interest in supporting and implementing the ad hoc European strategy. For these reasons, Madam Minister, it goes without saying that the Socialist Group will continue to support this text and will always be on the front line to combat the decline and loss of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak to correct a small mistake made by the excellent colleagues of the PTB. On this occasion, I would also like to support what my colleagues have said about benevolence for seals and human beings stranded on our coasts. I thank you for the wink that was made. It's good to hear that kind of talk in our assembly. With regard to the error that has been made, it has been said that we have retreated on the issue of supplementing economic indicators of well-being at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to go to request No. 5, which is intended to advocate an extension of the concept of gross national product by adding an indicator based on criteria for sustainable development. All those who are aware of the Sustainable Development Goals know that they are very numerous and that they affect many different aspects in terms of combating inequalities between women and men, injustices, and in favour of emancipation. In this respect, our colleagues made a small mistake, which I wanted to draw attention to so that it could be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u64	Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for putting on our agenda an issue that is still too unknown to the general public and sometimes to politics as well. The question of biodiversity conservation and the question of climate are in fact the two sides of the same coin, namely the damage to our environment in general. I would also like to reassure my colleagues. I am not one of those who evades their responsibilities by pointing out regional expertise. I fully assume that the federal government has jurisdiction over biodiversity. In this regard, I would like to highlight a strategy initiated by my predecessor, Mrs Marghem, in which I fully endorse my action. This is the BeBiodiversity strategy. I would also like to say that alongside the strategies that have been mentioned, whether Farm to Fork or the Biodiversity Strategy, I consider that the European Chemicals Strategy also participates in the approach to the protection of our environment, as much as we know the harm of chemicals on this environment. Finally, regarding COP 15, we are among those who believe that this Conference should be to biodiversity what the Paris Conference has been to climate. Negotiations are under way, they are not simple because of the pandemic context and the difficulty of meeting otherwise than via videoconference. Some colleagues in the countries of the South have had problems in taking part in the work. It is essential that all parties be able to participate in the preparation of this COP 15, and this is not the case at present. Discussions are under way to see whether this conference should be organised when some have not been able to participate in the discussions. I believe that it is better at this stage not to agree than a bad agreement and to stay stuck for the next few decades with a lack of ambition on biodiversity. The decision will be made in the coming days and we will certainly come back to it, I imagine, in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u65	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u66	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Reccino Van Lommel, Kurt Ravyts, Erik Gilissen, Barbara Pas. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1603/3) The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposed that this proposal be rejected. (1603/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The rapporteur, Mr Wollants, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there has been a great deal to be done in the past few years about hydrogen. This subject is becoming more and more topical. It is also included in the relay plan, the conscious "plan for recovery and resilience." I have tabled this resolution not only out of necessity, but also because I find it a very fascinating subject. We have had very interesting hearings in committee. A number of parties who are usually interested in the subject did not take part. In any case, these hearings have demonstrated the usefulness of the deployment of hydrogen and its unbridled potential. I am talking about chemistry, the port, but also transport, for example. I am particularly concerned to note that the hearing revealed, among other things, that we will be heading towards massive imports of green hydrogen in the future. As you know, we are not in favour of import dependence, as we will be dependent enough in the coming years when it comes to our energy. We have seen in the past what it means to be dependent on, for example, oil imports, which will decrease in the future, but hydrogen is at risk of increasing. So we have to do everything we can to get local production wherever possible. If, of course, security of supply is compromised in the coming years, it will be particularly difficult to produce hydrogen with energy that we do not have. What is the reason for tabling this resolution? I want to see not only ambition, but also results. This means that these ambitions must be translated into a number of initiatives. We need to make the most of the hydrogen potential. In the past, we have taken a much too wait-and-see attitude and looked only at the European Union's projects. We must dare to be a pioneer in this respect; we must not miss that train because our economy and our companies need it. A number of interesting studies have also been published. I refer, among other things, to the very interesting report by BloombergNEF. I also refer to the prospective study on gas security of 28 March carried out by the FPS Economy in collaboration with the Federal Planning Bureau, the CREG and Fluxys, but also to the study on the role of low carbon and neutral gases in the future energy transition carried out by Deloitte at the request of the federal administrations. The real reason why hydrogen doesn't come off the ground in this country and why we can't be a pioneer in that area is because, even in this matter, the powers are tied together with hooks and eyes. It is a tangle of powers that is ultimately not conducive. For months we have been waiting for advice on the distribution of competences. This was promised to us by Minister Van der Straeten, but in vain. The advice of the Flemish government was also requested, but it did not draw up any. A number of parties subsequently abused the lack of advice in order not to support our resolution. The most cynical thing is that Minister Van der Straeten promised us a study on the powers, which she provided in a draft to the cabinet of Flemish Minister for Energy Demir. However, the Flemish Government does not want to comment on this and that is where the whole story ends. Some parties then blame the Flemish interest for wanting to take the flight forward by saying that we have waited long enough and want to put the matter to the vote. The reason for rejection is therefore particularly vile. There are a few requests in my resolution that cannot be discussed, for example the division of powers between the federal government and the Regions, but yet you felt it necessary to reject the whole. I thought hydrogen was an important matter for all parties in this hemisphere. We have tried to stimulate this debate. That is why we ask that tomorrow we vote against rejecting this proposal because it is important, because we need to take the flight forward and because hydrogen will be important for our economy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u68	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u69	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kattrin Jadin, Denis Ducarme, Christophe Bombled, Benoît Piedboeuf, André Flahaut, Hendrik Bogaert, Jasper Pillen, Kris Verduyckt, Julie Chanson, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u70	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1732/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1732/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Defossé, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u71	Mr. President, I regret that the principal petitioner is the main petitioner here. Mr Defossé is a reporter. I apologize. Mr Defossé was the rapporteur and you are the main producer. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u72	I was a co-rapporteur. I have to stay here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u73	You're always here. There's one more certainty in the Chamber after the corona crisis that you'll be here every day. I can see that in the meantime, for which all the respect, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u75	Then I come to the content of this resolution. My group appreciates the initiative of the majority, of Mrs Jadin and the MR, to stimulate the debate on what to do with our defence. The great tension that exists is, on the one hand, about what we are doing with our engagements on NATO, the Transatlantic Alliance and, on the other hand, about the demand for more European cooperation and, in fact, the wishful thinking of a number of people for a European Defence. A clear option has been taken here. That tension field's been around for a long time. This is also a very interesting debate in the Committee on Defence, which I believe is doing a very high level of work. We see that the MR fully draws the European map and that the rest of the majority follows. At the recent NATO summit, the Prime Minister also said that NATO is and must remain the cornerstone of our military, collective defence, our military security. That's good news in itself. I therefore found it strange to have to read this resolution, because this resolution goes very far in that European story and has very little attention to the NATO story. I think that's a little weird. The more-Europe story is really the mantra of this government. In all the dossiers, the answer seems to be more Europe. Is there a problem with X? More Europe. Is there a problem with Y? More Europe. I honestly don't know if that's always the right answer. It is clear that we must work together and ensure that we are not an island. We need to work together. The European Union is important. Whether that is the answer to all the problems, however, I doubt. We also saw this last week in the discussion of the recommendations of the Strategic Committee. The Strategic Committee is not going all the way down the europhile either. There is clearly a transatlantic impact, much more than a European one. Of course, they did not say that they do not think Europe is important, nor do I say that. Everyone thinks Europe is important. It is, of course, the degree of emphasis. Last week, in many speeches by government parties, we did not hear from our point of view that there was far too little attention to Europe in the recommendations of the Strategic Committee. Europeans collectively spend more on Defence than, for example, the Russians. Without the real support of the United States, however, we are only a small animal in the military field. Especially with the British leaving, there is still one really strong army within the European Union, namely the French army. The Germans are still bound to chains by history, especially in the field of heavy impact. France, of course, is also a nuclear power. For the rest, it's all relatively limited. The Americans are always helping us out when we are really in trouble, such as Operation Desert Falcon and the operations that are still going on in the Middle East, the Levant, the operation in Afghanistan. We always owe this to the support of the Americans. We don't even have a lot of abilities. We should simply use them from the Americans because we do not have them ourselves, including some segments within the air capacity, but also the other components are the same. So I would argue for a little more realism. It's a very dreamy resolution. It gets even more official and heavier. A frequently heard point of criticism of this European Union is that it is quite bureaucratic. I'll be careful when I say it. It is always very bureaucratic, very bureaucratic and everything takes a very long time. The resolution then calls for European operational quarters and a White Paper. Is that giving work to the surplus of senior officers in the Belgian army? Don't we put an additional bureaucratic layer on top of everything that's already in the Defense Department? In this way, do we not dwindle up the scarce resources of the Defense Department and, above all, do we not produce a lot of paper? These are questions I ask myself when reading this resolution. After all, we already have such an institution with its own roadmap, capacity targets and a centralised command, which is much slimmer and more efficient. That's NATO. We have headquarters in Brussels and military command in Bergen. The question is why all this is necessary. Are we not working twice and producing a lot of paper tigers, but few efficient solutions? The next observation is that this resolution denies the tension between the European Union and NATO. For us, European defence can only be successful if it operates fully and fully within the alliance, not outside and certainly not against it. N-VA is opposed to the creation of new structures that work in parallel with or against NATO structures. We are not sure that what is proposed here does not go in that direction. One can bet on two horses. This will not only weigh on our own budgets, but sooner or later it will also create a contradiction or a choice of preferred platform for dealing with crises. I think it is naive to say that this resolution is fully compatible with NATO. That is why we would have liked to have had a critical debate in committee in order to overcome the simple diplomatic whim that the EU and NATO are compatible. However, we are still hungry there. My final point concerns a key point of my party, of our ideology, namely sovereignty. I know that this is an ugly word and for some, especially for the purple-green government, it is also curses in the church. It certainly isn't for us. The sovereignty debate is a key debate for the future of many points and I think that this is really an issue and will become even more so. We see this also in the area of migration, when we see, for example, what the Danes and the British are doing now. We have this in so many areas, where we are very clear that the sovereignty of a country must be respected. In committee, I went into more detail. I asked questions, but I didn't actually get an answer. This concerns points 3 and 6 of the resolution. Point 3: "Proposal to set up a European Defence Council to meet the European Defence Ministers." I just don't get it. There is currently a European Council under the European Union's foreign, security and defence policy. That Council meets, the Ministers of Defence also meet there within the Foreign Affairs Council, one of the ten possible forms of Council meeting. I do not understand why there should be an additional Defence Council. From the comprehensive approach, which is one of the main benchmarks of this government's foreign policy with the 3LO approach, you should do so in an integrated way, not in a separate Defence Council. I really don't understand why that's necessary. When I was Secretary of State for Migration, we were under Justice and Home Affairs, and we were good. I have never argued for a separate Asylum or Migration Council, that is absolutely unnecessary. Asylum and migration must be integrated within Home Affairs and Justice. When talking about human trafficking and the European fight against it, it must also be dealt with with with colleagues from the Interior and the Justice Department. Why don't you just let the DOD sit on the Foreign Affairs Council? I don't understand why that has to be a separate council. I really don't get it. I think that is all ballast and bureaucracy. I really don't understand what the added value of this can be. My main point of criticism in the area of sovereignty was about the sixth desiderans. I quote: '(...) to initiate the review of the decision-making system for the deployment of European Union combat forces'. That's about those battle groups. In fact, I did not get a clear answer to that in committee. For the sake of clarity, at the moment, the deployment of battle groups, European Union combat forces, is taking place unanimously. That's not random. The deployment of your military arm, the armed arm of country or state, must be approved by the government, mustn't it? We are not going to abandon the unanimity rule, are we? It is truly appalling that you dare to suggest that. It is appalling that it is being proposed to abandon the unanimity rule. That means, in concrete terms, the following. When Belgium supplies half a battalion or a number of units in the EU Battlegroup and a majority of ministers are in favour, for example, of launching an operation in the Balkans, in Mali or in Afghanistan, but Belgium is against, Belgian soldiers still have to fight there. Suppose they die there, when we never supported that operation. The Belgian Parliament is against, the Belgian Government is against, but still Belgian soldiers are killed because the operation was decided by majority. That is completely unacceptable. I really don't understand why you dare to go this far. It's really disgusting, and I'm very opposed to it. We are not going to send our men, our women, our boys, our girls on operation without broad approval in Parliament and in the government? We're not gonna do that, are we? After all, what happens if it goes wrong? When things go well, no one will notice anything. But what will happen when it goes wrong? It's gonna go wrong, too. A military from Mali has been repatriated this week. He almost died. He was badly wounded. It often goes wrong and the situation becomes even more unsafe. You want to give that unanimity rule now. If Poland and Hungary vote yes and have a majority and we are against, then we will still have to send the troops. No pasaran. Nopasaran. That's what I'm telling you. That's not gonna be with the N-VA. However, it is your resolution. In any case, I don't understand why you want to go this far. That really comes up against great resistance and also incomprehension within the Defense Department. It is simply unacceptable. However, that is the situation today. It is a sad moment, at which we apparently have to bury a piece of our sovereignty with a smile. Mr President, those were a number of points from my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution seeks to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy as a component of the CFSP. In this way, following the purple-green coalition agreement, the main proposer, the MR, seeks to strengthen the European pillar within NATO and develop European strategic autonomy. Above all, we want to achieve this objective by continuing, as we call it, to strengthen the policies that have entered into force since the Lisbon Treaty of 2009. Colleagues, the Flemish interest is not against strengthening a European defence strategy. An sich can be somewhat supportive, provided the right focus and the right priorities are in place. The same goes without saying for voluntary cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. But that does not mean that there can be no question of this resolution, as far as the national sovereignty of the Member States and this country in particular is concerned. It is clear that the proposal seeks a European strategic defence and security area, alongside NATO. In this context, it points to the US growing strategic interest in the Pacific region. According to the proposers, this could eventually weaken the transatlantic partnership we were talking about. A good understander can conclude from this that we no longer want to look only over the Atlantic for the European defence and security strategy. As has been said, we cannot be strictly opposed to this, because our unmistakable dependence on NATO, and hence on the United States, has in the past dragged us into a number of military operations that did not directly serve our European security interests. Moreover, Mr Francken will forgive me for working on the reference to NATO's dependence in my speech. Afghanistan is an example of this, Libya is another example. More European autonomy towards America is therefore welcome. Let me give you just one example: China's threat is a challenge. However, one condition for us is that autonomy towards America can grow on a voluntary and spontaneous basis. The aim of European strategic and military cooperation should not be an excuse for us to launch a kind of European federal superstate with its own military force, which, moreover, we are seeing at the moment that it is not working at all. In such a European federal superstate, Member States would no longer have a say in their own foreign and security policy. Just there, for our group, the shoejel is pinching. We see that through a deepening and strengthening of PESCO, through co-financing through the European Defence Fund and the European Peace Facility, and the promotion of a common defence industry and technology, we are trying to strengthen the common security and defence policy. In concrete terms, this is also a supplementary common defence budget, to which all Member States will have to contribute, and so national defence budgets become more dependent on the European level. Therefore, vigilance is always required in this regard. The national defence budget, however fallible, is an excellent tool to preserve the sovereignty of the European nation states. The proposal states in Question 3 that it is proposed to set up yet another new European institution, namely a European Defence Council, in which the defence ministers of the Member States will be present. This request is, in our view, totally superfluous because the Defence Ministers are already meeting in the EU Council of Ministers organised by policy area. Mrs Mogherini also pointed that out during the hearings and, together with us, questioned the usefulness of such an institution. Perhaps it is the intention of an extra institution to create some extra posts, and I will leave that in the middle and leave it to the people who have tabled the resolution, but we do not think there are many practical advantages for such an institution, since the Council is already uniting the defence ministers. That brings me to the financial aspects. There is a new institution, staff for a common military force, defence planning and strategy, but the question that is not being answered is what it will cost and whether we have money for such toys in times of total budgetary crisis, especially in the field of defence. Initiatives such as the European Defence Fund and the European Peace Facility create common European funds, but in practice we see that this amounts to a redistribution of financial resources across the Union to close some gaps in the budget of several Member States. What we ourselves would be getting out of EDF will sooner or later have to be repaid to funds for Member States with even greater budget deficits in the field of defence. In committee, Mr Bogaert, who was not here today, referred to the motto no taxation without representation as a result of the discussion of this motion for a resolution. How much weight the voice of this country will still have on the basis of that principle is only the question, because our contribution to our defence budget is already inadequate. So the question is how much budget our country still has to contribute to the European defence pillar. Is that an additional budget? Is that at the expense of another budget? If we can believe Professor Biscop, who took part in the hearings, the common security and defence policy will certainly not reduce its budgets in the first instance, quite the contrary. In our view, the proposal for a resolution has an implicit objective, namely a European army with a European superstate, a sort of United States of Europe. Apparently that does not go in that direction quickly enough, despite the numerous efforts made by colleagues in the European Parliament, not to mention Guy Verhofstadt, hence perhaps the proposal. As far as we are concerned, only nation states can have an army and they can only let their armies work together on a voluntary basis. We have very good examples of this among our partners at European level. We believe that a European army of a European superstate is doomed to failure, because there is no European identity, not to mention the fact that the military leadership would undoubtedly be dominated by France or Germany, as Professor Dumoulin pointed out at the hearing. Another important reason why such a European army cannot and will not work is that the geostrategic vision of the Member States varies widely. We are thinking of the second civil war that has plagued Libya since 2014: Italy supports the Libyan internationally recognised government because of its interests; France and Russia, in turn, support General Haftar. One final element I would like to mention here is the erosion of national sovereignty, including in Question 4, which is the wet dream par excellence of the urophils. In order to achieve this, the proposers want to build on the European Union's decision-making mechanism, which is still largely intergovernmental in defence and security policy. We want to move from a unanimous vote in the Council to a qualified majority vote. This means that we are actually moving towards supranational decision-making, since the Member States lose their right of veto and thus de facto a part of their sovereignty. We do not think there is any support for this at the moment. A number of speakers also agreed with this at the hearing, Mr Molenaar and Mrs Mogherini, to mention two. Is it in our national interest to give the keys to our military policy and our security policy to that Brussels super bureaucracy? Asking the question is answering them. By the way, this raises the same problem as with the European army, namely that with a qualified majority vote the large Member States, not to mention France and Germany, will weigh much more. In this way, we degrade ourselves into a kind of vassal state in our foreign policy and in our defence policy. If that's the intention, I wish you every success. In any case, the Flemish Interest Group hopes that this is not the intention. You have already heard that we do not agree with the idea behind this resolution. However, it contains good elements which deserve to be deepened, but we cannot support them as it has been drafted and amended by the majority parties. We voted against it in committee, and we will vote against it in the final vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u77	Mr President, following the debates we have had this afternoon, it is indeed impossible to dissociate these two major foreign policy debates. On the one hand, there is the continuation of European defence and, on the other, there is the revival of transatlantic relations and therefore of our security relations with Washington within NATO. I think that must be very clear. However, these two texts also have their own interests. They believe that Europe must do more for its foreign policy, for its defence within NATO and for the security of its own environment. That is the philosophy of the two texts I have tabled. I thank all the colleagues in the Defence Committee who have made their constructive comments and criticisms to them. These two texts have their own interests because they consider that we need more security in terms of vision in the years to come, certainly also concerning our continent. Beyond the details and the amendments, we must go back to the essentials. It is about how we can take charge, define our destiny and how, through concrete actions, we can share our values of democracy, peace and security. This is a question that the European Union has been asking itself since its creation. How can we become a full player on the international stage? This issue has increased since the end of the Cold War, leading to the Maastricht Treaty. Today, this issue persists in another international climate where conflicts, threats and high-intensity war re-emergence. In fact, the documents given to the Minister of Defence last week by the twelve researchers bear witness to this. To deal with it, no European State, except France, can act alone. I am deeply convinced that unity is the master asset. In order to move further, this unit has recently been translated into a hard core formed by those who want to move forward faster. This is a great novelty in the field of European defence: the implementation of structured and permanent cooperation is unfortunately too wide to constitute a real hard core. A second reform is that of the Athena mechanism, which finances CSDP's military operations, giving way to the European Peace Facility. Another innovation is the updating of the European strategic vision in 2016 which will be complemented by the strategic compass next March, a conceptual framework leading to very practical and concrete initiatives. The strategic compass will provide concrete directions, goals and targets for the next five to ten years in areas such as crisis management, resilience, capacity-building and partnerships. It will include specific timetables to contribute to rapid implementation and facilitate regular review at the political level. This will be another fine debate which we, colleagues members of the Defence Committee, will have to address in parallel with the drafting of the Alliance's new strategic concept, quickly, because a first draft of a strategic compass will have to be discussed in the Council in November 2021 with a view to its adoption by the Member States in March 2022. On these two documents, Belgium must carry out a coordinated work of reflections and proposals. It will all the more be able to do so as we will have a strategic vision for today's period until 2030 before 21 July. These advances towards European unity must continue. I will illustrate my point by three themes that have been set out in several requests made to the government: political leadership, the sharing of sovereignty – a major subject raised by my colleagues whom I will counter-argu – and the full exploitation of the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon. On this first point too, we are at a turning point with the beginnings of work on the future of Europe. Evaluation of the provisions of the Treaty, deepening of the Union with a constant treaty or revision of the Treaty, all options are thus on the table. Political leadership first. The need for specific meetings of European Defence Ministers must be matched by the need for much more effective planning and command of the European Union. The military capacity for planning and driving suffers from a lack of personnel provided by the Member States, a clear lack of infrastructure and also of secure communications. This can be seen as one of the reasons for the lack of ambition of some of the European Union's military missions. With regard to the sharing of sovereignty and qualified majority voting (QM), of course, the sovereign power of a state to declare war and, more modestly, to participate with other states in peacekeeping or collective security missions, cannot in the present state of European construction be passed on to a representative federal authority. That is why we have talked about a targeted introduction to organisational points, to the establishment of a common European medical unit, to the location of a new staff, to an exercise programme, to the budget of the European Armaments Agency. These are secondary points which do not require the veto power of the Member States. As regards the use of the various measures of the Lisbon Treaty, it is better to understand why the symbolic weight of the practical implementation of Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union is still far from the evocative power of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, for example. We also proposed further reflections on possible remedies and the ability to explore new opportunities. It is not necessary to be fundamentally pessimistic to read between the lines that the implementation of the articles I have just mentioned is far from being acquired, and this, twelve years after their adoption – the capabilities that refer upstream to a fine and realistic analysis of our environment and threats and downstream to the question of the industrial base of European defence and the place that our companies can take in it. Together with Denis Ducrame and Jasper Pillen, we will table a motion for a resolution on this subject tomorrow in plenary. What is the philosophy? Political leadership in this sector needs to be strengthened. At MR, we believe that our Minister of Defence, in cooperation with the Regions, must have a very careful look at the future of our defence industrial fabric. On our territory, we have successful industries whose activities are purely military or dual in nature. It is in our interest to ensure that they are properly integrated into the European defence industry. In Belgium, 15,400 jobs are involved in leading-edge trades, in a highly competitive sector where new producers (Chinese, Indian, Brazilian) are eager for new markets in the face of confirmed producers (European, American or Russian). In other words, it is an industrial sector that will need a lot of attention so that the restructuring that it is experiencing in Europe allows the formation of European groups capable of competing with their foreign competitors, so that our companies can, from R & D to maintenance, participate in the current or future programmes and also so that our BITDE (European defence industrial and technological base) is a real tool of our strategic autonomy. In this resolution, which we are debating this afternoon, we wanted to have encouraging words for the strengthening of the BITDE and for the European Defence Fund. Even though its budget has increased from 13 billion to 7.9 billion, it is an essential achievement to promote the research and development of interoperable European equipment, guaranteeing European strategic autonomy. The greatest disappointment of the last ten years, ladies and gentlemen, is the lack of progress in mobilizing the means of rapid reaction: the famous tactical groups never deployed and never used. The European Union must remain committed to improving its capacity to act as a guarantor of security through its operational commitment, in particular to CSDP missions and operations. Faced with this political failure of the battle groups – political failure because of the political unwillingness to use them – it is again the nature of the operations that raises questions. The European Union, in Mali, must be able to take responsibility for both the training of the Malian army or partner countries and participate actively in the Takuba mission, which brings together the special forces, without each force generation conference highlighting the serious shortcomings and shortcomings in this type of operation, which are not available. In fact, it is the planning of equipment that poses a problem or the situation where the equipment exists well, but without political will to use it. Behind these various provisions, it is very clear that the blocking point remains above all political. European defence is an instrument that serves two policies. First, to strengthen the credibility of Europeans in NATO, in which Washington insists and will insist on this famous burden sharing. Secondly, to strengthen the credibility of Europeans in the nearest foreign country, to strengthen strategic autonomy in a geographical area where regional powers, unresolved conflicts, ongoing conflicts or future conflicts will put to the test our will and our ability to manage, at a minimum, our security in our neighbourhood. It is therefore the political issue that faces us and that we must take seriously without neglecting the industrial and technological dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u78	Mr President, of course we cannot oppose a common security and defence policy, the subject of this motion for a resolution. Scale enhancement is accompanied by efficiency gains and in the long term we can move towards a division of roles. It would be silly if all the European countries separately were to invest equally and equally in certain components, such as the Navy or the Air Force. A certain division of labour seems to us to be a good thing in the long term to achieve a slimmer and cheaper defence. The question remains how European defence will be implemented and what it should be used for. In this motion for a resolution, we cannot get the impression that defence and security are being approached too unilaterally, namely only with military glasses, almost suggesting that a European military and industrial complex should be supported in the pursuit of strategic autonomy. At the same time, we see that we want to deepen our relationship with NATO, which is a certain contradiction for us. On the one hand, we want more pooling and Sharing, Burden Sharing, but on the other hand, I do not want to stir up the debate again, and I do not want to buy 34 F-35s for the sake of the United States. However, these aircraft are missing their target for a country like Belgium; they are only useful for high-and-fight missions, which are fully registered in the foreign policy of the United States. So we have absolutely no interest in that. Although "EU: Global Strategy and Security" is at first sight a broad approach to security, attention is also being paid to a civilian component, "EU: Global Strategy and Security," which is mainly aimed at further developing the military component. In practice, therefore, the focus seems to be on the impact of military instruments in particular. The proposed resolution also seems to want to promote this trend. After all, this repeats our criticism of the safety analysis and the report of the 2030 Strategic Committee, the causes of instability and conflict which in turn contribute to security problems, are somewhat neglected. I am thinking of structural causes such as unfair trade, global warming, energy scarcity and uncontrolled migration through economic disruption. All this is viewed by militarised glasses, as threats that must be controlled and contained in a military way. Instead of the billions that, in our view, will be drained through the European Defence Fund and the European Peace Facility, and PESCO for the development of military equipment, a large part of the resources could also be used, for example, to ensure sustainable security, as the UN also defines, and to work on the causes. In our view, security is primarily about tackling the causes of violent conflicts. Think, for example, of the complex nexus of poverty, climate change and social inequality, rather than trying to respond militaryly to its violent symptoms. The European Union does recognise this nexus, but we do not think it is appropriate. That is what we are missing in this resolution. Whatever we miss in defining the security strategy, which is perhaps a bit counterintuitive, but it is also logical to look at it from a different perspective.... is the principle of disarmament. That's almost completely missing. The resolution places a great deal of emphasis on security in terms of developing more resources and military instruments. We believe that this will eventually lead to a more dangerous world and more geopolitical tensions, because that has the potential to lead to an arms race and to negative perceptions among our alleged rivals, which can also trigger an action reaction spiral. I would also point out that Europe was originally founded on a peace project. In full Cold War, with the Helsinki Final Act, the European Union took the lead in many multilateral disarmament conferences from the concept of cooperative security, which comes about when there is dialogue and when the interests and concerns are shared and acknowledged: I feel safe when you feel safe. That's very important. We find that too little in this resolution. What is more, the modernisation of nuclear arsenals is being prepared and implemented. Nuclear sharing is also more lively than ever before, while the European Security Strategy states that the proliferation and development of weapons of mass destruction is seen as a threat to Europe and the rest of the world. I don't think that's very consistent. We therefore believe that the solution is not to modernise the current nuclear arsenal and make it more employable, but to make efforts to implement the Non-Proliferation Treaty and to begin negotiations on effective disarmament. Finally, in the further development of the European military industrial complex, we also see the dangers of an arms industry which will want to strengthen its position on the world market and compete by achieving as many exports as possible. Whether this will always be compatible with the European values that we want to promote in the rest of the world is still very much the question. After all, we want to conduct a trade policy based on human rights, while European manufacturers are already, according to the latest SIPRI report, responsible worldwide for one third of all arms deliveries to Saudi Arabia. We also have a lot of reserves here. Some of the amendments tabled have sought to make the rather one-sided resolution a more balanced resolution. For example, when we talk about an ethical committee of the European Defence Fund or the preamble to the militarisation of space, these are valuable and meaningful additions. But in our view, the problematic core of the resolution remains unchanged. So again, for us not a risk of further arms race and subsidised arms exports, but multilateral disarmament. Nor is it a strong European pillar within NATO, but a common European security and defence policy, in the full sense of the word and independent of American interests. Nor is it a new Cold War for us, but international solidarity and the concept of cooperative security that is best returned to the European Union. That is why we will not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u79	Mr President, I would like to make two brief comments. Firstly, in relation to Mrs Jadin's speech. Considerans 6, of course, asks, you cannot read otherwise, to initiate a review of the decision-making system for the deployment of battle groups of the European Union. It's not about buying capacity, or I don't know. It's about putting in battle groups. I can't read that any other way, Mrs. Jadin. I understand you're trying to explain that, but I'm reading what it says. I think that's how it should be read. I wouldn't know what else to mean by that. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of the PVDA, you are always talking about disarmament, but I wonder why your party in the Walloon Parliament has never put forward a proposal to close the weapons factories of FN Herstal? I don't understand. You're always the first to lecture everyone with the moral touch, but close that factory! Take a parliamentary initiative. You have a large fraction there. Take a parliamentary initiative to close that gun factory, that state plant. Take that initiative. I haven't found it yet. I will look again later on the Walloon Parliament's website to see if I have missed a parliamentary initiative. But be consistent! When one says a, one has to say b. You don't. Why? Because the FGTB is the big boss at FN Herstal's workplace? The FGTB is increasingly similar to the PTB, your party. Yes, that's true, we saw that in the wage agreement. 80% of French speakers were against. A complete infiltration of the FGTB, the socialist union, by the communists. Especially in Wallonia. You're fighting for those jobs. You're part of the strike teams for those jobs. Why don't you stop that hypocritical story of disarmament as long as you want to open up those weapons factories in your own pockets? The homebase of the PTB-Liège, by Raoul Hedebouw. Why don't you be consistent?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u80	Mr President, as I know, we have always been very consistent. I also expressed our position last time. We have said on several occasions that export licences should no longer be granted for arms supplies to Saudi Arabia, and that change, including arms production, should be regulated at European level, including in Wallonia. This must be accompanied by compensation for the people who work there. So when we talk about disarmament, that must also be borne in mind. In the debate we had last time on the resolution on the no longer use of explosive weapons in urban areas, I also set out our position. There is therefore no inconsistency with our position on disarmament, in which we also want to take responsibility. But of course that is best done at European level. Because if we are also going to work on a military-industrial complex within the framework of this resolution, there will of course be many more arms deliveries, and then we also need to think about ways of converting the people who work there and working out measures to ensure that they do not suffer or harm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u81	Unfortunately, weapons and weapons components are being produced everywhere and not just in Wallonia, is it not Mrs Jadin?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u82	Mr President, last week's discussion on the strategic vision and the recommendations for defence of the strategic committee was quite clear. The security situation in the world is not improving. There are dormant conflicts in almost every corner of our continent. The experts also pointed to the danger of global warming, which will cause disruption of the planet and worsen the global security situation. It also shows that there is an increasing threat from our Internet cables from hackers and the like. In short, a lot of problems that we should solve with our own defence, a department that we should not forget about. We have often talked about this with each other over the last few weeks. It's a very unrealistic situation. When I listen to all the opposition parties, they also say that we should look for partners in that story. Should it be NATO or the EU? I don't want to make a choice. For me it is true that more Europe does not have to mean less NATO. I don't understand that little wiggle. In fact, I have not heard any concrete argument as to why the two would be under each other's feet. The story of the motion for a resolution is one of cooperation within our continent. That continent doesn't work flawlessly today. Everyone knows that the EU is suffering today from a number of Member States, which, contrary to all European values, behave mainly like bounty hunters. They are particularly interested in European subsidies but certainly not in good cooperation. However, that does not prevent my group from supporting the text before us, because the text contains a great deal of work to improve cooperation in European defence from our country. It does not say that we will create a European army, Mrs Ponthier. I didn't read that. I do not know whether that is a wishful dream of some, but we are still a long way from it. We are still at a very different stage. Mr Jadin has carefully considered what is in the text, with a lot of suggestions and suggestions. There is a fear of a paper tiger, but I do not know whether the proposal before us will provide the definitive framework for how cooperation will take place. We certainly give confidence to the other Member States to think about this. After all, there are many possibilities and options. So it's basically a hand out to our European partners. Mr Francken, you say that you are in favour of Parliament's broad approval on foreign missions. I'm fine with that, because it wasn't always like that in the past. You are concerned about the decision-making proposal. You say everyone has to agree, otherwise the party's off. I think that's punishment. After all, when we were discussing the F-16s towards Syria and I referred to the international mandate of the UN Security Council, you pointed out that I should not be naive. After all, Russia would never support that. If I were to wait for that, there should never be any departure. At that time it sounded particularly like we would not care about that decision-making. That decision wasn't important to you at the time. The text now states that we will not be taken hostage by a number of partners who are no longer on the line. That's what this is about. The countries you mention are the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that Then suddenly you're out of the game. That's not correct. You are setting an example of the incident in Mali. It would perhaps be of some completeness, should you also tell us what political support there was in this country alone to do extra missions in Mali. From left to right there were zero, nada. No pasaran. No one was really excited about it. We are not even talking about it anymore today. You're pulling the case on bottles. In one case it would be valid, but not in the other. That's not linear. In any case, Vooruit will definitely support the resolution before us tomorrow, because, as I have just said, it is an outstretched hand for greater cooperation at European level on defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u83	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, I would like to reply, because your comparison makes absolutely no sense. You compare the deployment and decision-making of own troops through the EU Battlegroup with whether or not to have a mandate from the UN Security Council for an operation in the Levant. It's way beyond me. [[.]] I don't get it at all. I don't even get the point of comparison. The United Nations has not decided whether or not we should deploy our troops. Fortunately, the United Nations does not yet have the power to decide where to deploy our military and our troops. The United Nations has nothing to say about that. That's up to us. What you are proposing here is that we cannot decide that anymore. If there is a majority in the European Defence Council, which you want to set up yourself, in order to deploy our troops, but we are against it, they will still have to go if some of our people are correctly integrated and shared. You compare apples to pears. This has nothing to do with the approval of the UN Security Council or with an international mandate. That has to do with who decides on the deployment of our military. I and my party, the largest party in the country, believe that this decision should be taken here and not on Schuman Square. That is a clear position. By the way, that has always been the view of all of you. I'm really looking forward to you guys stepping down from that. After all, what will happen the day it goes wrong? That's gonna be fun. Suppose there is no support for this, that they are still being deployed and that twenty Belgian soldiers die. That happens when there was no majority for this. That will create a political crisis. I believe that the Prime Minister may then walk to the King to offer the resignation of his government. I won't be far off. You just can't do that, can you? Why don't you think about it before you approve something here? Whether or not we have an international mandate from the UN Security Council for that intervention is another matter. We've talked about that before. I see geopolitics that since our invasion in Libya, the Russians and the Chinese have been playing on their feet in principle and simply do not give a mandate for Western interventions anymore. They felt deceived because Sarkozy and the Western troops have gone far too far with the F-16s and the Mirages over Libya. I can even understand a little about the Russians, which is very difficult for me to admit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u84	It's on the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u85	I believe that there is indeed the need for operational start-up coverage through United Nations resolutions. I think it's philosophy that's here. That is what guided our efforts to participate in the operation in Afghanistan. That's what probably saved the government and the coalition at the time because if we had sent troops without that coverage, it would probably have caused us some political problems. That's philosophy. I'm a little misplaced here to intervene. I would just like to point out that the two texts discussed today are important texts. They have indeed positioned our Parliament, in a way, after a discussion enriched by the interventions of each other. It is gratifying that, at the level of this Parliament, we are talking a little more about defence and a little more about foreign affairs and international relations in general, by arguing and exchanging. We saw him again this morning. In this alone, I believe it is important for the functioning of our democracy that Belgium and the ministers who have to attend meetings at European and NATO level do not leave alone in the battle. They have backside, in a way, the support of a Parliament that has taken the necessary time – sometimes with resolutions that are too long and too amended. I believe that the best resolutions are the shortest and those that are not lost in the attics of this Parliament. I believe that we must indeed stress the quality of the debates and the quality of the texts. There will be an expression that will be given. Again this morning, when we had a discussion on Mr Buysrogge's draft resolution for future purchases, if there were negative votes, it was mainly because it was a little premature given the electoral situation in some countries. For example, what will happen in France next year or in Germany in a few weeks? I am confident that we will come back to these texts and that we will be able to resume the discussion where we have stopped it. Unfortunately, it was punctuated by a vote today which I consider indicative. These are the elements that I wanted to share with you for my group by descending fictitiously from the perch of the presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-plenair-ip115x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 1, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 July 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
