ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u1	Minister, this is not the first time I've asked you about the protection of whistleblowers in the police. In this case, I would like to ask you about a case reported by the press for the week of 13 April. A Brussels police officer reported acts of violence committed by his colleagues during an administrative arrest. This is an attitude that is expected of all police officers, because – if they are proven – such facts are totally unacceptable. However, history does not end there. The superior's reaction would have been, according to the police officer's testimony, to advise him not to wave, to stifle the case: "What is happening downstairs, stay down!" Despite this lack of hierarchical support, the police officer prepared a report on the facts. Since then, bullying would accumulate, his colleagues would put him at risk – for example, by not responding to his calls for help in intervention. Today, this police officer is dismissed from the service and risks losing his pension, while those who have been accused of police abuse are reinstated after a punishment. To denounce this situation which, if it were to be proven, would be nothing less than scandalous, this policeman began a hunger strike. According to this testimony, it is the integrity police officers who are punished and the rotten apples that continue their careers. Minister, this order of action is regularly denounced, and it seems that nothing is moving to change a completely unacceptable situation within our integrated police force. These facts undermine the image of the police and contribute to the public's distrust of them. It goes without saying – I want to say it from the outset – that there must be no amalgam and that the vast majority of police officers are doing their job very well. We have to say it again. Minister, my questions will be simple. Have you been aware of these facts? What answer do you give to the plight of this particular police officer and of all those who, among his colleagues, refuse to tolerate unacceptable acts within a police force? What measures are being taken to empower the hierarchical authorities to respond to the seriousness of the situation? What disciplinary measures are being taken to permanently exclude abusers and the authorities that would cover them from the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u2	Madam Minister, last week, the Mosquito weekly revealed the case of Eric Claessens. This Brussels police inspector began a hunger strike after receiving a preliminary notice of dismissal from the police. Mr Claessens explained that his patrol once fell on a man who urinated on the facade of the Ancienne Belgique. After arresting him, older colleagues decided to take this man out of sight to the nearby metro station, where the police had a room. He will be beaten there by Eric Claessens' colleagues. When Mr Claessens warns his superior, he answers: "What is done downstairs stays below! You shut your mouth, or you'll have problems." Nevertheless, Mr Claessens drew up a report. A courageous gesture that will indeed be worth reprisals: refusal of reinforcements in a dangerous situation, threats and today, risk of revocation. These facts are unworthy of our police forces. We see day after day that we have good policemen, but these are crushed by rotten apples. The system protects violent agents, who are still on duty, and excludes those who are professionally conscious and want to do their job properly. I would like to remind you once again of your commitment to zero tolerance of police integrity. Unfortunately, despite many questions, your answers always leave me hungry. The facts continue to accumulate and we see no concrete reaction on your part. I would like to know, Madam Minister, on what basis disciplinary proceedings are being initiated against Mr Claessens. What is he accused of? What are you going to do about this situation? Do you recognize the need to set up an anonymous reporting system, in the form of a green line, with real protection for whistleblowers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u3	Minister, as my colleagues have already outlined the context, I will turn to my more specific questions. Today, we know that the grievor we are talking about today is far from the only one. We have already been able to talk about this a few weeks ago. Finally, the observation becomes worrying, as the reports accumulate. There is a certain failure on our part: we cannot protect these whistleblowers and our current services do not seem to be effective. How could police whistleblowers, who fear reprisals, confide in themselves? How could we help them? In the end, it seems that we are in a system that would be more intended to protect the police officers at fault than the whistleblowers. Minister, have any police ever used the recently established trusted service? If so, what are the conclusions of these first tests? Since this service is inefficient, I think the creation of an independent body such as the IOPC in Great Britain is a good solution and a proposal that we should consider. Is this lead on your side? What concrete measures do you intend to take to remedy the abuses currently mentioned in Inspector C's file and the dismissal that has been decided against him, according to the information we can read in the press? Are you considering taking further concrete and immediate steps to protect police officers such as the one we are talking about today? We have already been able to exchange information, including a green line. What is the status of these proposals that you have said are under consideration? Today, more than ever, we must provide concrete answers and see concrete effects in place to help those police officers who want to defend the uniform but also the prestige of their function. That is our role today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, the context has indeed been recalled by my colleagues, but I still wanted to go back to it because the facts are extremely serious. The press did indeed reveal the hunger strike launched on 3 April 2021 by Brussels police inspector Eric Claessens, in order to denounce the pressure exerted by his peers since he informed his hierarchy about the violence committed by some of his colleagues against a man in the city centre. Today, he had to stop this hunger strike on the advice of his doctor. Nevertheless, the facts he denounces are extremely serious. His hierarchy would have told him that what happens downstairs, stays down and would have made his working conditions unbearable: lack of reinforcement, harassment and today a revocation that would cause him to lose his pension. A colleague also refused to assist him in a police intervention. This resulted in serious injuries and subsequent hospitalizations. It is followed by a complaint by the police officer on two levels. First of all, there is a criminal complaint in court, with a procedure that, as we know, will take time to complete. And, besides that, there is a complaint before Committee P, on the basis of the law of 15 September 2013 relating to the reporting of a suspected violation of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of its staff, with a procedure after which some are judged by their peers. This is not the first time we have been dealing with a violent omerta in the police services. One remembers the policeman who had broadcast the video of two police officers who spoke racist words and who was forced to retire early. We also remember the violence committed against Mr Chovanec, which was never brought to the attention of the Commissioner General. Minister, do you condemn the pressure exerted on this police officer by the federal police hierarchy and his colleagues? What concrete measures have you taken to enforce the law of 15 September 2013 on whistleblowers and put an end to the omerta that prevails in the police? Why are internal procedures so lengthy today? Could staff in the Police Stress Team be increased? What control is there today over the leadership of the federal police? What measures are being taken to avoid conflicts of interest among members responsible for analysing complaints to Committee P since some are seconded from the management of federal police agencies? In conclusion, you mentioned, in committee on 24 February, the finalization of the revision of the Royal Decree of 9 October 2014 aimed at restoring a system of trust of integrity within the integrated police. What about today? How would the internal denunciation system to the police you were talking about work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been aware of the hunger strike launched by Mr Claessens, but I would like to stress first of all that in order to judge such a situation, one cannot start from a single statement because it is necessary to find the complete and reliable information. In the present case, the facts of 25 July 2015 denounced by the complainant, according to the officer responsible for internal control of the Federal Police at the time, gave rise to a complaint lodged by Mr. Claessens. This led to the provisional suspension of the police officers in question during the investigation period, which will demonstrate, the alleged victim's statements, medical certificate and supporting testimony, that the arrested person had not been subjected to illegitimate violence. With regard to the disciplinary procedure referred to in your question, Mr. Boukili, and as a reminder, the disciplinary law applicable to members of the police services does not allow the disciplinary authorities to disclose the facts and documents of which they have become aware in this capacity. Since I am not the disciplinary authority of the person concerned, I do not have access to this information. In view of this situation, I must allow the procedure to continue as provided for by law. It is up to the Defence and, where appropriate, the Disciplinary Board or the Council of State to exercise the statutory control in this regard. As far as I am aware, the facts reported by Mr Claessens relate to what he perceives to be serious malfunctions or even offences committed within the police service or by members of the police service. Judicial and administrative proceedings have been initiated at the initiative of Mr Claessens, according to him, in the courts, the supervisory bodies, both at the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the local police (AIG) and at Committee P, and at almost all national bodies, up to the House of Representatives and even some international bodies such as the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO). With the exception of possible cases still under way, the multidisciplinary analysis of the denunciation procedures he has initiated does not appear to have been able to demonstrate the merits of the case. I can assure you more generally that every credible denunciation is analyzed. The necessary investigations are carried out at the criminal and disciplinary levels and are translated, where appropriate, into criminal conviction and disciplinary punishment. As far as the procedures under way are concerned, I cannot comment on their conclusions, but there is no concrete basis for doubting their seriousness and legitimacy. My message to the whistleblowers remains positive, and I can only encourage them to continue to denounce any abuse that is insignificant. But then I invite them to comply with the final decision and final judgement of the relevant authorities. I also have no evidence to suggest that the competent authorities, whether hierarchical or not, would not assume their responsibilities in this regard. With regard to your question about possible disciplinary measures, of course, it depends on the nature and severity of the abuse and the circumstances of the case. However, as long as the abuse is established and attributable in law, it may result in one of the most severe disciplinary sanctions, i.e. the resignation of the person from office. Finally, I have no information on any retaliatory measures allegedly taken against whistleblowers in the police or on the possible protection of potential perpetrators. On the contrary, some cases argue for the opposite thesis. I do not see the need to establish an additional green line, since the monitoring bodies in place, both the AIG and the P Committee, can already legally deal with anonymous denunciations and are also obliged to guarantee the requested anonymity. Mrs Song, with regard to your question on the trust and listening service, I refer you to my answers in committee on 24 February to Mr Aousti's parliamentary question No 55014488C on the same subject. I confirm that police officers have already used this integrity service and that the internal reporting system is being developed. However, I do not yet have the first conclusions. It therefore seems to me too early to decree that this internal reporting system is ineffective. In addition to this internal component, the Act provides for an external component, including Committee P, to which staff members who do not wish to make an in-house denunciation may apply. Mrs Rohonyi, the duration of internal procedures depends on the legal time limits established for each of these procedures. They may be extended depending on the actions brought by the persons concerned and the duties to be performed. The same applies to criminal proceedings before supervisory bodies. For the rest, I'm sending you back to these instances. As regards the status of the revision of the Royal Decree of 9 October 2014, a working group of the SPF BOSA, in which the Federal Police is involved, has completed the Dutch version. This is a question of both a consolidated and a modified version. These texts are currently subject to the hierarchy of the SPF BOSA. They will probably be forwarded to the Finance Inspectorate in mid-May. Federal police personnel can already report suspected violations of integrity to the Integrity Department. This service invites the staff member to participate in an interview to discuss the status of the signaler's possibilities. One of these possibilities is a denunciation to the external component that can provide the signaler with protection against reprisals, if necessary. In the future, Integrity will establish a network of trusted integrity individuals within the federal police to further develop the internal component of the reporting system. It is not part of the mission of the Stress team to intervene in any internal or external police procedure. These stakeholders provide guidance and guidance to staff who would undertake the process, but they are not dependent on them. At present, there is no question of increasing the framework for this Federal Police Stress Team, but of ensuring that the current framework is comprehensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u6	Minister, that you are not the disciplinary authority is a fact. Whether you are careful about the truthfulness of the facts pending the outcome of the various procedures that have been initiated, whether disciplinary, administrative or judicial, I also understand that. However, these events follow on from a series of other particularly alarming facts which each time concern a number of members, fortunately isolated and minority, of the police force in their dealings with the body of ethics, with the rules relating to human dignity, with respect for individual rights or here, in this case, with regard to the physical and psychological integrity of one of their colleagues. I do not think that the facts are established. It must be considered that there are more and more clues that in total form a cluster of concordant elements, suggesting that there are inappropriate behaviours within the police. I believe that we must give ourselves the means, by means of an appropriate methodology, to recall the rules which must prevail in the relationship with the citizens or in the relationship between colleagues whenever things are denounced. Indeed, there will come a day when we will be confronted with a fatal tragedy that could concern either those who have been administered – unfortunately it has already happened – or some police officers who have the courage to denounce a number of facts. That is why I believe that in addition to waiting for the outcome of the proceedings, whatever they may be, we must be able to give ourselves the means to examine, to analyse the current state of the operation of our police from these points of view. I am not saying that everything is going wrong, but as we have seen with the Chovanec case, we have not yet drawn all the conclusions. You see that in a case like in the Chovanec case, unacceptable behaviors like a Nazi salvation face camera assumed as such, like a lack of information from the bottom to the hierarchy, as also obviously disproportionate and inappropriate methods used have led to fatal outcomes. Here, we have a police officer who complains about some of his colleagues, who is on a hunger strike, who is calling for help, who is sounding the alarm, and we must be able to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u7	Minister, I do not know how to interpret your answer. In the end, you tell us you're not going to do anything. You say, in your answer, that you always send a positive signal to the whistleblowers. But here, you're doing the opposite. I thought that the opacity and inaction in the face of such acts were limited to the police hierarchy. But here I see that it goes back in the hierarchy to the position of the Minister of the Interior. If you don't think it's important to react to this situation, what more do you need? I do not even count the number of incidents that repeat the same unacceptable behaviour within the police force. Virtually every week, we ask you about a new incident. And every time, you give vague answers. You don't start any action. And here neither. There's a call for help. A man goes on hunger strike because he's being harassed psychologically and physically. And you, you find there's nothing to do. Minister, I find your answer completely out of step with reality. You say that the lines that are being put in place today, that the complaint and alert system put in place today is sufficient. I don't know if you really know how the police work. I don't know if you really know the police officers. To complete a complaint of non-respect for the integrity of the police, it takes courage. Retaliation is important. We see that in this situation. And you don't do anything! I don't know how I should take this. Mr Claessens will appreciate your inaction in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u8	Madam Minister, this is not often the case, but today your answer disappoints me. I was expecting a positive signal from you, following the various exchanges that we had already had. That you're careful, it's normal. I understand that. However, we must consider the facts we have told you and the accumulation of facts that we have the opportunity to discuss. As my colleague said, at each sitting, we ask you about new incidents that are more serious than each other. This accumulation is very worrying. Finally, the various interrogations that I have already been able to address to you, and all these elements that are accumulating, seem to confirm that there are indeed unacceptable behaviors within our police forces. These behaviors are evidence of a certain dysfunction of the system put in place today within our police. This police system and its functioning no longer respond to the society in which we live. As my colleague Laaouej has said, this is a system that must be examined, reviewed and possibly reformed. I can't believe it. We need an answer today. I thought I could get here tonight, when I met Detective Claessens, with concrete answers from you. That will not be the case. I'll tell him I'm disappointed. I will meet him because I want to be able to objective what we see in the press and come back to you with concrete proposals. I hope that we can work with my colleagues on proposals to provide an answer. Madam Minister, if it does not come from you, it will have to come from somewhere. I thank you, however, for the work you will be doing in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, like my colleagues, I must say that they are extremely disappointing. Indeed, you minimize the seriousness of the facts. You tell us that the investigation that revealed the facts reported by this police officer led to the conclusion that this was not illegitimate violence. First of all, I would like to say that several facts have been denounced, not just one. Beyond that, I want to tell you that, no matter what, the important thing today is that this policeman, but also 13 other members of this service are subject to harassment. These are totally unacceptable facts. You say that you encourage police whistleblowers, but how do you specifically encourage them to take this extremely difficult and extremely courageous step if, at the same time, you do not take any concrete steps to ensure their protection? You even reject the concrete and constructive measures that we have put forward, and this is the case, in particular, with the Green Line proposal which was put forward by colleagues earlier and which I find particularly interesting. If many of us question you on this matter, it is because today, a cry of distress is being made by this policeman, for himself but also and especially for all his colleagues who are in pain, who no longer dare to speak to the P Committee, nor to the service of trust or to the stress team. They are afraid of reprisals or they think that, in any case, the procedure will not succeed. We can no longer accept it, as we can no longer accept a system that ultimately punishes whistleblowers, those police officers who work in an honest manner, and at the same time protect the perpetrators of violence. It is more than time, Madam Minister, to restore the confidence of the police officers in their hierarchy, but also, in doing so, to restore the public's confidence in the police and in its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u10	Madam Minister, on Friday 16 April 2021, in the district of Droixhe in Liège, there was a serious confrontation between youth gangs. Chechen and Kurdish youth faced each other. Firearms were also used. On social media movies circulated in which clear gunshots can be heard. One person was killed by bullets. Two others were injured. The violence would follow an earlier incident the day before. The reason for this is not known. The result of the incident is that on Friday Chechens from Verviers came to Liège to take revenge on young people from the local Kurdish community. The police finally came to the scene with more than 100 men and dropped off the neighborhood. In cars parked nearby, several heavy weapons were found, including a Kalashnikov. During the confrontation, a bus from the TEC, the public transport company, was also damaged by a stone in the windshield. Until Sunday evening, following the facts, the TEC stopped driving around in the area in question. The police arrested 28 people, who were questioned by the investigating judge. Several of them were already known to the court. It would not be ruled out that there were also Chechens from other cities involved in the violence. Madam Secretary, can you give us the latest progress on the arrests and the investigation? How many people were arraigned? Did the arrestees have Belgian nationality? How come weapons of war circulate freely among those gangs? How great are the material destructions? Are the local law enforcement services of the Liege police zone getting reinforcements from the federal police? Will that be the case in the future? Has the government taken a bourgeois party? Madam Minister, I had already questioned you on 17 March 2021 following other riots in Liège. You then replied that a national working group would be set up, chaired by the federal police and by the local police zone Brussels CITY Ixelles, and possibly extended to include representatives from the large areas such as Liège. Has that working group already come together? Were there any representatives from the Liege Police Zone involved in this? Couldn't we have detected this war situation in advance? What additional measures can you take to stop such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, dramatic events occurred in Liège and resulted in the death of one person, injuries to several others and no less than 28 arrests. These events opposing rival gangs show the importance of the fight against urban gangs and the means dedicated to combating this phenomenon. Both the Federal Judicial Police and the local police areas are still hard hit by the budget cuts under the Michel government. The events of 17 April show, if still necessary, the extent of the task of combating this criminal phenomenon, which has also already manifested itself in Antwerp, in particular, during the struggles of influences between gangs active in drug trafficking. Minister, what are the priorities for the fight against urban gangs at the federal police level and what are the means available to local areas in this area? What measures are being taken to strengthen police capacity to combat urban gangs? What are the cooperation in preventing the occurrence of such phenomena with the local authorities concerned? What personnel needs, in connection with this problem, are expressed by the federal police and local areas? What answers do you give?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u12	Mr. President, Madam Minister, this case is in addition to many others who have already touched the region of Liège, but not just because urban violence and gang phenomena are tearing up almost every major city in the country in a very worrying way. Unfortunately, the struggle of the federal police and local police against this scourge is hampered by limited resources. Minister, how do you intend to allow our police to conduct this fight under the best possible conditions, both in terms of the equipment and the personnel and resources that the police could equip themselves with? In addition, the exchange of information between the federal police and the local police could, in my view, be further improved in order to allow better surveillance of these urban gangs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the material damage caused by the events of Friday 16 April in the Droixhe district consisted mainly of destroyed cars, some of them with bullet holes. For the intervention itself, the local police area of Liège has been strengthened by the federal police in order to maintain order. In addition, a water cannon and a helicopter of the federal police were deployed. The FGP of Liège is involved in the judicial investigation of the facts. For the aspects relating to the judicial part and the follow-up to be given, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Justice. The national working group has met three times since it was set up. He'll meet again next week. At the moment, several work slopes have been mapped, including the collection and management of information. For this purpose, the federal and local police shall jointly appoint persons who will also direct the sub-projects. The local police areas will, of course, also be represented in this work through the Standing Committee of Local Police. Mr Thiébaut, I must point out from the outset that the phenomenon of urban gangs is a priori followed by the local police. Nevertheless, the Federal Judicial Police may contribute to the search for information and to the flow of information where the activities of urban gangs are organised crime, in accordance with the rules of division of labour laid down in COL 2/2002. Your second question is essentially the responsibility of the local police, especially with regard to the prevention component. It should be noted, however, that several boroughs have developed, in consultation with their king's prosecutor, a targeted policy towards groups with recurring problems or specific problems of delinquency. This was the case for the district of Droixhe for which the Belgian police and justice have developed a zero tolerance policy between 2015 and 2017. This policy was re-established in January 2020, following the riots in the Saint-Sylvestre area. As a result of these new developments, a zonal security council was held in the presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Liège, the mayor, the head and coordinator of the Federal Police, the judicial director of the Federal Police and the police of the Liège area with a view, inter alia, to consulting on ways to implement, including the monitoring of social networks, in order to prevent the occurrence of new events. Ms. Song, at the local level, the need for permanent and continuous police proactivity remains to identify urban gangs. The official GHG databases (the "simple investigation management" judicial processing tool) and the general national database (BNG) allow the flow of information between police areas, following the control of individuals on the ground. As long as the BNG feed is done, the local police have tools to work at the judicial level. Of course, a reference magistrate is required in each prosecutor to monitor and validate the measures taken. It is therefore up to the local police authorities to develop and approve the zonal security plan which determines the priorities corresponding to the specific security problems as well as the police resources that are reserved, especially since the police route is only a means of understanding the phenomenon of urban violence. The Federal Judicial Police can also contribute to the approach to the phenomenon, since the activities of urban gangs are organised crime. The Director-Administrative Coordinator is responsible, at the request of the competent administrative police authorities, for federal support for supra-local administrative police missions as well as for missions that have both an administrative police and a judicial police component. All components of the integrated police force must of course contribute to the search for information, as well as to the flow of information. It should be noted that the use of alternative, confidential or even encrypted means of communication often complicates the task of researching and anticipating police services. This is one of the reasons why my policy note aims at an innovative and information-driven policy. This translates into several ongoing projects, such as Focus, i-Police and Internet Research. In the future, technology will further support this exchange of information, not to mention the essential role of the King's prosecutors in the concerted approach to the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u14	Madam Secretary, the events in Liège are too serious to dismiss them as some irregularities. They are almost war situations, against which immediate and adequate action must be taken. For a number of questions, please refer to the Minister of Justice. In the meantime, we have also asked him these questions and his answers show that all those arrested have already been released. Speaking of a signal! It is not a good signal, not for the inhabitants of the neighbourhood, not for the Luikians, not for the people in general and certainly not for the policemen, who have to perform interventions over and over again with danger for their own lives. The Flemish interest will therefore continue to insist: the police work must be followed by a Justice that does its job and deals with criminals hard and hard if necessary. We will continue to work for more police officers on the ground, more financial resources to tackle organised crime with rigour and, above all, more political courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. I stress the need for serious federal support because, in this type of problem, we cannot limit ourselves to thinking that it is only the police areas that must act. We really need serious intervention at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. I join the elements that Mr. Thiébaut has just stated. Like him, I believe that the role of the federal police in this kind of case can be much more important because the local police alone cannot handle these organized gangs. We could give the federal government a much greater reinforcement role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u17	Mr Moutquin is not here, his question No. 55016533C is without object
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u18	Madam Secretary, a few weekends ago, a rave party with a 300 attendees was shut down in the canal zone near Saint Peter's Lion. In this area it was already the fifth illegal event discovered by the local police zone. There is, of course, a real chance that there were more, which we are not aware of. On the Flemish side, the Zenne valley canal zone extends over the areas of Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, Drogenbos, Beersel and Halle. Due to its location on the border area and the dozens of empty sheds located along the canal, this is of course an excellent and wonderful place for setting up such illegal parties. During the intervention scheduled for Saturday night, the agents identified a large number of celebrators, including not only Flemings, Walen and Brusselsers, but also Frenchmen who had crossed the border. Unfortunately, when the party was stopped, the police were pounded with bottles, which resulted in a dozen minutes of proceedings. I cannot get the impression that these kinds of illegal parties are being organized more and more widely and professionally. This canal zone is a blind spot due to its size and location. Local police zones have neither time nor sufficient personnel to adequately control this entire area. In that case, I consider it necessary to partially relieve the local police areas in this area and have them assisted by the federal police at crucial times, which was also the case in this incident. This will enable them to play briefly in compliance with health measures. Are you aware of the facts? If so, what actions have you taken since you were informed of the facts? Do you consider federal police assistance necessary in this channel zone at crucial moments? Do you think it's possible to entrust that assignment to the federal intervention force? If not, why not? Maybe that's the question you've been asked from the local police? How will you deal with such large-scale illegal parties in the future? Will an action plan or any other guidance be drawn up?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, there are indeed several locations known at the Zennevallei police area where rave parties have taken place in recent years. Also on Sunday 11 April there was a rave party, which was of course forbidden, in a corner of the territory of the municipality of Sint-Pieters-Leeuw. The Zennevallei police area was notified of this at 03.53 hours, by a security officer of the company D'Ieteren. This indicated that there were many vehicles at Vaartkant-Oost in Ruisbroek and there were regular taxis on and off. Since that report already mentioned a party of 200 people and in the past several illegal rave parties took place in Ruisbroek, it was decided to cooperate with the neighbouring police zones and drive together to the reported location. For example, the Zennevallei police area was assisted by the police zone Rode, the police zone Ternat-Aflligem-Roosdaal-Liedekerke, the police zone Asse-Merchtem-Opwijk-Wemmel, the police zone Dilbeek, the police zone Zuid, the road police and the federal intervention reserve. Upon arrival, the police teams found that 200 to 300 people were present in the warehouse and that a party was going on with a DJ, with excessive alcohol consumption and drug use. When the police forces were spotted by the participants in that party, the services were pounded with bottles. People present at the party then tried to flee via all kinds of roads, including via the roof. They have tried to manage everything in a good way. Given the size of the group and the fact that the attendees rebelled, they were asked to stay inside and the identity card was subsequently checked. It was then decided to make the attendees channeled leave the site. Due to the prevailing chaos at the beginning, the security of police forces could not always be guaranteed. The filming of the attendees was carried out in order to be able to identify people in smaller groups. Ten identified persons were teenagers, 20s and 30s living in Brussels, Wallonia and France. Ten additional persons were identified who were subsequently found trying to recover goods from that rave party. None of the policemen were injured, but two partyers had to get additional medical help after they wounded themselves while fleeing. In any case, the phenomenon of rave parties will have to be monitored further. A roadmap could be drawn up for intervention at rave parties, so that it is clear which actions are best suited to end these kinds of parties without chaos.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u20	Madam Minister, today the local areas have neither time nor the troops to respond quickly. You are well aware of the problem of under-employment in the Edge, at times these people no longer know what wood arrows to make. Unfortunately, the help of neighbouring areas will not suffice, the area is far too large and there are too many blind spots. Help from above would therefore be more than welcome. Proactive control may be an option for preventing these many rave parties. That is not obvious, but it must be possible. In particular, local police need more support at parties that are organized in non-public places, in pilots and invisible places. After all, we notice that these parties are getting bigger and more professional. They are therefore even more dangerous to public health than public, visible parties. There is a need for a uniform, adequate approach. You mentioned a script, and I think you should get started on that today. You don't have to wait three or four months because then it won't be necessary. The police are asking for a concrete action plan and are waiting for initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moutquin's 55016549C and 55016573C are without object as the speaker was absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u22	Mrs Thibaut, here are some explanations about the statements made in the journalistic investigation that you put forward. With regard to the archiving of data from the General National Data Bank, the preparation of automatic archiving is under way and is in its final phase. It is carried out in close consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police information monitoring body. As in all databases, an error is possible. Given the number of automatic and manual controls performed at the BNG, the number of errors is relatively small. As for the Passenger Locator Form cooperation agreement, it allows automatic encoding of persons in police data banks for suspicion of non-compliance with the testing and/or quarantine requirement upon return of a risk area. These data are in a BNG environment but have a very temporary status. It is only when an infringement is found that the data will be included in the BNG. If no violations are found, these data disappear from police databases after seven days. In the latter case, this data is completely erased and no trace is kept. Finally, there is a way of knowing the extent and purpose of the data stored in the particular data banks of the police zones and the Federal Police Directorates. Each controller must keep a record of the categories of processing activities carried out under his or her responsibility. For the integrated police, there is a central register called RegPol in which data processing is recorded. This register also contains data processing in the specific data banks of the Federal Police or the local police. The supervisory body shall have direct access to this register. Automated archiving will take place on a weekly basis. The archiving rules, i.e. the principles of archiving and their deadlines, are put in place. It is not impossible for citizens to have their data checked and corrected in the BNG if they prove to be incorrect. In the area of data protection and third party rights, special legislation exists for data processed by the police services. This is the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in BNG. Due to the specific tasks of the police services, it was felt that it would not be appropriate to give everyone a right of direct access to the data recorded with respect to them. The procedure known as indirect access seeks to strike a fair balance between the legitimate rights of the individual and the equally legitimate needs of the investigation and prosecution of offences and the prevention of infringements of State security. The coding rules for minors are described in the Joint MFO-3 Directive of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior on the management of the information of the judicial police and the administrative police, as well as in the Law on the Police Function. As part of the covid-19 offences, additional rules have been put in place. There are clear rules regarding the registration of persons in the BNG. According to the new law of 30 July 2018 mentioned above, technical adaptations at the level of the BNG have already taken place in order to take into account the principles of data protection. While progress has already been made in this area, it is the intention of the integrated police, thanks to the i-Police project, to move towards an even more modern and more efficient processing of data by the police services. This new system will work according to the principles of privacy, security, accountability by design.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u23	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u24	Madam Minister, the Antwerp police are thinking about selling sweaters, umbrellas, coffee cups and other gadgets with the corps logo, because they find that there is a lot of demand for them. The initiative, of course, provokes a lot of reactions. Proponents refer to police services from far over the lake and say that such branded products have been sold in the United States for a long time. Others would then buy a product with the police logo on it to put on the dashboard of their car, in order to enforce goodwill at possible roadside checks. Others wonder whether it is not just a joke and whether the police are more concerned with the core tasks. Furthermore, there are of course all kinds of jokes circulating on social media, where the police logo is photoshopped on, for example, grenades, which alludes to the many explosions in Antwerp over the past few years. The initiative did not completely fall out of the blue. In July 2019, the Antwerp Board of Ships decided to take up a law firm to investigate legal issues surrounding the marketing of a new police brand logo. Before that, the city had a budget of 7,500 euros auction. Police union VSOA certainly does not think it is a good idea and asks whether the campaign is intended to profile itself as an attractive employer. Madam Secretary, do you think it is a good idea that the Antwerp police think of merchandising of their own products? Will you contact the police chief in question about that? What attitude will you adopt in this regard? Do you know if any other police forces would consider that, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u25	Mr Moyaerts, your question relates specifically to one of the 185 areas of local police, which have specific characteristics in certain areas and can also act autonomously. I have already asked the area in question, as you suggested. From the first information I say this with some reservations, it appears that no final decision has yet been taken on the project. The project is currently in a research phase. Moreover, it appears that the zone itself will not under any circumstances spend capacity on this, but will work with an external partner, who will have to abide by strict rules. In addition, it would not be the intention to make a profit with the project. All sales revenues will be directly invested in, among other things, awareness-raising campaigns on traffic. Furthermore, subject to and according to the first information, it appears that the official police logo will not be used on the gadgets. Only the specific brand logo of the zone, as published in the press, will be used. The choice of possible articles will also ensure that there is no confusion with the effective actual police action. I am very well aware of the sensitivity of the subject and also of the reactions it unleashes. I have therefore asked the zone to keep me informed of the end result of the study. Finally, I have no knowledge of other zones with such an investigation into the use of brand logos.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic453x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. As I understand it, there is still a great deal to be done. It is good that you are aware of the sensitivity of the theme. Indeed, there are 185 police zones, so that can bring about quite a lot. You have already replied extensively, but I have not really been able to hear from you whether you think it is a good plan or not. I think there's still a tail on the story.
