ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u1	Mr Minister, the reintegration pathways for long-term sick people were launched at the end of 2016. Under the 1996 Royal Decree, at the latest two months after the declaration of incapacity for work, the medical doctors of the sickness funds must make an initial assessment of the remaining capacity of the disabled persons. Your answer to my written question shows that there are considerable differences between insurance institutions. Apart from the sickness funds of the Landsbond of the Independent Sickness Funds, no insurance institution seems to be able to perform a quick scan after two months of incapacity for work with anyone who is eligible for this. Yesterday, at the hearings, we heard from Professor Godderis how important this early approach is. How do you explain these large differences between the health insurance funds? Will you address the federations that perform less quickscans, or have you done so already? How will you respond to these health insurance funds in order to actively guide long-term sick people to the labour market, which also benefits the workers themselves? A quickscan can have different outcomes. The conclusion that a work resumption is possible within six months or directly, subject to adjustments, was in 2019 the conclusion of as much as 61 % of the quickscans by the CM-sick funds. However, this number is significantly lower among the other national federations, which come to the conclusion much more often that a resumption of work is not possible at all. It is also striking that the neutral and CM-sickness funds are much more frequent than, for example, the socialist sickness funds conclude that adapted or other work is possible in the short term. How do you explain these differences? Is it possible that the advisory doctors of certain sickness funds are far more flexible than others? And if so, do you see solutions in those guidelines for the assessment of sickness funds? Then I come to my second question. You intend to evaluate this legislative period the reintegration paths for long-term sick. This must, of course, be done on the basis of sufficient data. There too, it seems that there is a great deal of error, as my written question shows, in relation to the re-integration paths that have been launched. It seems as if the most basic data are missing. For example, data on the number of quickscans carried out by the Auxiliaries in 2018 and the second quarter of 2019. For the Socialist Landsbond, the data of the first two quarters of 2018 are missing. We also see differences in reporting. Some insurance institutions cannot say for all quickscans whether they were carried out on an disabled person on a contract of employment or without a contract of employment. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How is it that certain data are not available? Are they not or are they not consistently collected by the insurance institutions or refuse to make them available? How will, in such a context, reform existing reintegration pathways in a sufficiently informed way? Minister, it is clear that there is a great deal going wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u2	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the growing number of long-term disabled people is a major social problem. We're talking about 500,000 people. The increasing influx, among other things, due to the ageing population and the increase in cases of burn-out and other mental problems does not yet have its limits. This means that reintegration into the labour market is increasingly on the political agenda, in the interests of both the many people involved and their employers and of society as a whole. The challenge in this area is very great. We heard that yesterday. In order to bring this challenge to a successful conclusion, we will have to look at the problem differently. Not only the long-term ill self, but also the employer and the doctors involved should rather be based on what people can still do and not on what they can no longer do. Under the policy of your predecessor, Minister De Block, very important steps were taken in the change of that paradigm. For example, reintegration paths have been set up which allowed the worker concerned to return to work at his own pace. It also concluded agreements with the regional employment services on retraining and activation and sensitized workers, employers and medical advisers. The government agreement announces that more long-term sick people will be able to start a reintegration process. Both the prevention of work-related diseases and reintegration have an important role to play in the regions. What progress has been made with your colleagues in the regional governments on both issues? The consulting doctors are over-questioned, which slows down a rapid response to new disability and to the number of reintegration pathways. A more multidisciplinary approach is a solution. What have you done in that regard? What route do you want to follow for this? An accompaniment tailored to the long-term sick person in the first months of incapacity for work is necessary. How do you intend to strengthen that? Is that part of the talks with the Regions? Finally, what action do you intend to take on the pilot projects on the prevention of burn-out, which were set up during the previous period of government? Are they repeated or generalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u3	Madam President, I am in a bit of trouble because of Mrs van Peel's question. Mrs Van Peel refers to the figures I gave in reply to Parliament's question No. 441 of 12 February 2021. I can now supplement those figures so that Mrs van Peel has the most up-to-date figures. However, I have to read out whole pages of tables and that is a bit annoying. I can give her my answer in writing. That's not a problem. However, I would like to say that the interpretation of these figures should be done with some caution, partly because an advisory doctor can perform multiple quickscans for one insured person. This may explain, among other things, why the ratio at VI 500 is more than 100%. I thought that was one of the issues. In any case, clear instructions were given to insurance institutions by means of a circular, so that legislation is applied in a uniform manner. I do not have any additional data that can provide an answer to the questions raised by Mrs Van Peel and which can give more insight into the differences. The RIZIV is currently developing a new flow of data in order to better and more sophisticatedly monitor the efforts of insurance institutions in terms of their evaluation and reintegration powers in the future. Mrs De Jonge asked about the state of play in prevention policy and consultation. We have indeed had contact with the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels-Capital regions and the German-speaking Community as part of the return-to-work process which we intend to organise. I would like to repeat here that it is not just a matter of policy competence Work, but also of policy competence Well-being, because the employment of people with disabilities or a health problem has not been centralised in all areas of the country in the field of Work. Firstly, the RIZIV will reform the cooperation agreements in Wallonia and Brussels into framework agreements. The result is expected by summer. This action is part of the federal action plan, with which we want to put in place a concept of back-to-work coordination, in line with the strategic objectives I proposed to the committee earlier. It is noted that the advisory doctors are over-questioned. A more multidisciplinary approach is indeed the solution. What am I doing in that respect? On 21 April, the Management Committee of the RIZIV Benefits Service adopted guidelines for the multidisciplinary approach to disability and reintegration in insurance institutions. Those guidelines are included in a circular letter addressed to the medical directors of the insurance institutions, and provide support to the consulting physician, both in checking the incapacity for work and in initiating and monitoring the reintegration pathways. In developing policy, where the idea of return to work coordination is really a spearhead, we take four principles as our starting point. Firstly, we want to detect as soon as possible whether there can be a return to work, by which we mean that we want to know as soon as possible whether people can return to their jobs or their employers after a period of illness. Secondly, we want to know quickly whether support will be needed in the return-to-work path. Some people can arrange that themselves with their employer, their occupational doctor and their health insurance fund, but we want to know quickly who might not do that by themselves. We do this by using smart algorithms, but above all by asking the people themselves. Thirdly, we want to be able to identify as soon as possible what support will be needed and what adjustments will be needed. Fourthly, we want to get those involved in contact with the right service provider as soon as possible. These four principles are integrated into our work-co-ordination concept, which consists of the following pillars: the introduction of a new role in the process, namely the back-to-work coordinator; the optimisation of existing regulations and processes; the better and more use of existing data flows and communication platforms; and the introduction of a permanent monitoring and evaluation system. I am now going into this briefly, and I would like to focus on the role of the back-to-work coordinator. The idea is that a back-to-work coordinator is mainly a low-threshold contact person. We could put him in the insurance institutions, but he must of course play a different role than the current role of medical advisers. He has a very specific function, which we must also manage properly. One could place him there because there is already a mass of data available from the employee, including the medical data and the quick scan by the counseling physician. There are also multidisciplinary teams, although quite disparate, which assist the counsellor within the insurance institution. I believe that we can make good use of what already exists, but that we need to bring structure and uniformity into operation. A coordinating figure who really takes the back-to-work dossier into his hands could play a useful role in this. This person could approach both the employee himself and the prevention consultant, the occupational physician and the specialised mediation services in a constructive manner with a view to successful reintegration. This will be done if possible within the company concerned, but if it is desirable it will be played shortly to find alternatives outside. He or she has the task of engaging with people with health problems in a positive and "outreaching" way, together with them to find the most appropriate first or next step in their journey to work and to bring them into contact with the right service as soon as possible. For the sake of clarity, people who know the way or are already in a supportive context are not intended for this concept. It is only about people who need support in finding the right path. It is clear, however, that there must also be close cooperation with the consulting physician in the context of return to work, especially as regards his contribution to medical expertise and the final responsibility he or she bears for the return to work. The same applies to the multidisciplinary team. In other words, this team will assist not only the doctor in the process of evaluating the disability, but also the back-to-work coordinator in the return-to-work process. The legal texts to roll out this process have been drawn up and the actions are being prepared at the Council of Ministers as a function of an assignment. The other elements, such as IT developments and communication, can be launched once the necessary resources have been approved by the Council of Ministers. You also asked what action I am taking on the pilot projects on the prevention of burn-out set up during the previous reign. A number of pilot projects are supported by the Knowledge Centre for Disability of Work of the RIZIV Benefits Service. It concerns the pilot project on the reintegration of people with burn-out and the development of a transmural multidisciplinary pathway with maximum coordination of care and guidance to work. This is a project led by Professor Lode Godderis of the Centre for Environment & Health. The evaluation of that project is foreseen for the end of September 2021. It is also a retrospective epidemiological study on the treatment and professional trajectory of patients with burn-out and on the proposal of policy recommendations by Dr. Patrick Mesters of the burn-out network. This situation is in the final stage. The final report was received by the Knowledge Centre and should be validated by the Knowledge Centre. Its completion is foreseen by the end of October 2021. On the basis of the final reports of both projects, in the autumn of this year, we will consider what policy recommendations we can draw from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u4	Minister, you have almost ignored every question I have asked. With a few new figures, you will not answer that either. You will have to name some sacred houses if you really want to tackle this problem. To begin with, there are already huge regional differences in the number of labour integration pathways that are being launched. In Flanders, 4,707 in 2019, in Wallonia, only 1,186 and in Brussels, 77. That's a sacred cottage that might be appointed sometime. My questions are then again about the huge differences between the insurance institutions which apparently all deliver on their own agenda in this story, in the face of the people who need to be helped as soon as possible. It is therefore also necessary to look at the capacities of people and to re-integrate them into social life as soon as possible, which also benefits the disease. That is a statement by Mr Godderis. There are not only differences in the way work is guided, but also in whether quickscans are performed. Certain data are not transmitted. Your answer to the whole story is that you will create an extra person and that we will also place them best with insurance institutions. That is something we can laugh very much about, because that is part of the problem. I have often said, even in the previous legislature, that the advisory doctors would be much better removed from the insurance institutions and placed under the RIZIV, so that at least a uniform policy is pursued on all these matters. They are therefore among hammer and anvil. If they get people back to work too much, the health insurance fund loses money. We really have a problem here that you will have to mention in this whole story. I have heard very little about this in your reply to Mrs De Jonge's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u5	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answers. Yes, there is still some work to be done. I am sure that is high on the agenda for you. I am also very glad that you say that we need to detect very quickly. That is a very good principle. The occupational doctors cannot handle all this, but if the multidisciplinary approach can be driven up with a team and with back-to-work coordinators, then I think we are on the right track. We must also be aware of the fact that the longer people are inactive, the higher the threshold for returning to work. This requires a tailor-made approach to the individual in which recovery is of course central, but also reintegration into the workplace is an important element. It is also clear that people like to get to work. Three out of four people who are long-term ill want to get to work. I think it is important that we take these people into account and that we work as closely as possible to get them back to work. I also heard yesterday that a preventive approach is very crucial and very important in the process. I'm assuming this will be taken, too. I also look forward to the final report of the pilot projects to see if, on the basis of the recommendations, we can take steps to tackle the serious psychological disorders proactively so that people can continue to work in their working environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u6	With my written question, Minister, I wanted to see the ratio between the number of applications for sickness benefits that have been approved and the number of applications from the unemployed who have been refused. An unemployment benefit and a sickness benefit are aimed at a different target group and have a different finality. The nature and conditions of both benefits, in which sickness benefits, unlike unemployment benefits, are not degressive over time and have a higher maximum amount, may give rise to improper use. It is important that these benefits are applied correctly so that everyone gets the help to which they are entitled and to which they are in need. I think we agree so far, Minister, but your answer shows that you do not have the figure for the sick benefits refused, but only the figure for the sickness benefits granted. Should I conclude from this that the federal government, including the RIZIV which the sickness funds must check for their benefit orders, does not have figures of the number of ZIV benefits refused for the unemployed? However, these figures could reflect the way in which the sickness funds assess the unemployed and any significant differences between the sickness funds, which my previous question dealt with. Firstly, what will you do to make RIZIV's figures available, if not yet? Secondly, from your reply to my written question, I read that in the period 2016-2019 the number of unemployed who enter the disability in Brussels is higher than in Wallonia and Flanders. Is there an explanation for that difference? Thirdly, the number of long-term sick has been on the elevator for years. However, the figures show a decreasing trend in the number of disabled unemployed and the number of disabled unemployed. Is there an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u7	Madam President, I have the same problem: I have an answer for which many tables and figures are needed. I'll try to get through it. The committee can then get my full answer with the tables. Firstly, the RIZIV does not, in fact, have structural data on the refusal of entry into primary incapacity for work for the unemployed. The RIZIV currently only deals with the data concerning the persons actually entering the system of incapacity for work. The advisory doctor is responsible for whether or not to recognise the commencement of incapacity for work. Following your question, the RIZIV contacted the insurance institutions to request the relevant information. The insurance institutions confirmed that they will deliver the figures to the RIZIV. However, a division between the active and unemployed is not possible, as there is currently no integration with insurance institutions in the event of a refusal of entry into primary incapacity for work. Once these figures are available, we will make them available. As a result of your question, it has indeed been found that the information relating to the refusal of entry into primary incapacity is still not sufficiently exploited, both by the RIZIV and by the insurance institutions. The services concerned will examine how to better follow up these data in the future, so that the statistical material can be further refined. To this end, instructions will also be given proactively to insurance institutions. However, this limited information on refusal does not mean that the unemployed who do enter primary incapacity for work will not be followed during their incapacity for work and will automatically pass to invalidity without control. I have a table showing the number of completed periods of primary incapacity for work for the unemployed according to duration of illness. This table shows that of the unemployed who become disabled, 66% end this incapacity for work before the end of the sixth month of illness. Mrs van Peel, it is an extensive table. I am not going to read it to you, but I will make it available to you. Then I come to your second question. In reply to written question No. Table 1 shows the entry of the unemployed into primary incapacity for work broken down by years of service, Region and VI. In Table 2, you found the number of unemployed who exited from primary incapacity for work and subsequently entered into invalidity, broken down by years of service, Region and VI. If we compare these two tables, i.e. entry into invalidity year N compared to entry into primary incapacity year N-1, since the entry into invalidity follows one year after entry into primary incapacity, we see in Table 3 that unemployed people from Brussels who become unfit for work are more likely to become invalid after one year than in Flanders or Wallonia. That is indeed your finding, the percentage inflow from primary disability to disability is higher in Brussels than in Flanders or Wallonia. Sociodemographic factors may be at the root of these regional differences. If we compare the entry into primary incapacity for work for the unemployed, i.e. Table 1, with the number of beneficiaries per region, this is the new Table 4, we also note that there are fewer unemployed people entering primary incapacity in Brussels than in Flanders or Wallonia. From all these figures, it can be concluded that unemployed people in Brussels are less than average in primary incapacity for work and that those in incapacity for work are more likely to enter into invalidity from the point of view of primary incapacity for work. The decreasing trend of the number of unemployed entering primary disability and disability is a logical consequence of the falling number of unemployed benefit recipients in the period 2016-2019. Our figures show that the percentage of unemployed people entitled to benefits who end up in incapacity for work remains relatively constant in the period 2016-2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that RIZIV can suddenly take action in response to this question. But I still find it hallucinating how many things are simply not being looked at in the performances of the sickness funds, knowing that there are so many differences between the different insurance institutions, as the figures show. I have long advocated greater transparency in the use of public funds. This is a sacred house for lots of parties, I know that. But I'm afraid you're going to have to look at it properly. I will continue to ask questions about this. I am curious to see what will come out of the figures, which the RIZIV will apparently request. I'd love to receive it. After all, I think I can predict them already, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u9	Madam President, this is my last annoying question, I promise. Mr Minister, the resumption of part-time work is intended to bring about the reintegration of workers and patients. For example, we offer workers who are no longer or are not yet fit for work the opportunity to carry out an adapted activity during the period of incapacity for work. In the answer to my written question No. 438 we see huge regional differences again. The number of part-time workers returning to work is much higher in Flanders than in Wallonia and Brussels. In 2019, 68 percent of all disabled workers returning to work were Flemish, compared with 5 percent of Brussels and 25 percent of Walloons. The figures for the self-employed are similar. I am therefore very curious to hear your statement. Do you also see a link between these figures and the implementation of reintegration pathways in the different regions? I would say yes, because the figures I have just indicated, which were mentioned in the hearing yesterday, show the same difference. I think that these figures reflect the fact that Flemish employers apply more reintegration pathways and that Flemish sickness funds, after a quickscan, recommend more adapted or different work than Walloon or Brussels. Your answer to my written question shows that, once again, you cannot give figures on the number of applications for part-time work resumed which have been refused by the doctors of the sickness funds. It is noteworthy that the federal government and the RIZIV, which are responsible for checking sickness funds, do not have these figures. Minister, how will you deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u10	Mrs van Peel, there are no annoying or ambiguous questions, certainly not in this matter. Mr Minister, yesterday there were hearings on the long-term absence from work and on long-term illness. For years, that problem has only grown. The figures have risen rapidly in recent years. There are about 900,000 workers absent at work, of whom more than 447,000 are long-term sick. Those figures date from 2019. Of a total of 4.6 million workers, this has become a major problem. According to Securex's calculations, it's now about 32 out of 1,000 employees. You have recently consulted your Flemish colleague, Mr Crevits, who has drawn up a plan for Flanders, which could apparently be welcomed. However, the figures for Wallonia are much higher than for Flanders. Minister, have you been in contact with the Walloon Minister of Work? What are the plans? When can we expect a federal action plan? Can you already give us a look at the solutions you propose to address and solve this pressing problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u11	As Mrs Van Peel rightly points out, the reply to written parliamentary question K438 shows that in 2019 68 percent of employees who have at least one day's leave to resume work part-time are in Flanders, compared with 25% in Wallonia and 5% in Brussels. We can put the figures for part-time work back in 2019 against the number of disabled people. We can also make a split between primary disability and disability. I can get you those numbers. What it shows is that if we resume part-time work in relation to the number of disabled people, this system is more common in Flanders than in Wallonia or Brussels. In the case of employees, the proportion of parttime work resumed is almost twice as high as in Wallonia and Brussels. For the self-employed, the difference between Flanders and Wallonia is more limited. How can this be explained? An obvious factor is that the sucking power on the labour market in Flanders is stronger than the sucking power on the labour market in Wallonia and Brussels. However, that is not the full explanation, but it is an important part of it. Mrs Samyn asked a question which is very close to this and which looks at the actions we have already taken. I think we should organise a policy that is much faster and much more focused on returning to work, hence the idea of returning to work paths and back to work coordinators. This is already the subject of consultation with policy makers in Wallonia, Brussels, the German-speaking Community and Flanders. I would like to repeat that we are not merely talking about policy areas in the field of work. This is the case in Flanders because about fourteen years ago I myself transferred the integration of people with disabilities into the Flemish labour market to the field of employment policy and made it compatible with the VDAB. This has not yet happened in other regions and we are also discussing it with the Ministers of Welfare. What's to be done now? Firstly, the RIZIV will reform the cooperation agreements with the regions into a kind of framework agreement. We are working on this and hope to achieve results by the summer. That is, as I have just said, an important part of the federal action that we want to take. You said that I cannot give figures on the number of applications refused to resume part-time work. At present, the RIZIV records only the part-time work resumptions that are effectively started. We cannot therefore present structural statistics on the refusal of part-time work at the moment. Questions from insurance institutions have shown that not all of them have systematic registration of refusals. Article 230 of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 provides that a person may take up a part-time activity in the scheme of employed persons without the prior agreement of the doctor. The person concerned must only inform the insurance institution of the start of the activity, after which the medical practitioner has a certain period of time to accept or refuse the part-time activity. If the medical practitioner refuses part-time activity, the refusal to carry out part-time work shall take effect only from the date of the decision of the doctor. In that case, the period already worked is regarded as an authorised activity and therefore the refusal is not recorded as such. That slightly pollutes the tracking of the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u12	Minister, I am still surprised that the RIZIV does not have these important figures. This needs to be addressed in policy terms. You have used the obvious explanation for regional differences and you may, because it is part of the story. However, the percentages also point to a very different approach and a very different policy. You know that, of course. This is another reason to transfer the approach entirely to the regions, so that everyone can get to work in their own way and everyone bears the consequences of using it or not on certain measures themselves. There is no better promotion for that story than your silence in response to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u13	Minister, you say that the plan to solve the problem of the long-term sick will be ready by the summer. I hope for a well thought out and balanced plan. Furthermore, it cannot be denied that there is a significant difference between Flanders and Wallonia. I therefore think it is appropriate to give due consideration to regional differences. At the hearing yesterday, the experts expressed fairly similar views. So it will certainly be up to the politicians to take the courage to put forward an acceptable plan for all parties and not to put the problems ahead, otherwise the pressure on social security will only increase. A global approach will therefore be needed, as two thirds of the long-term sick suffer from stress-related diseases and burn-outs, which ultimately has to do with workable work and social end-of-life problems. Therefore, a good concert will be needed with the competent federal colleagues and regional ministers, as pushing the long-term sick out of the system with measures that have no scientifically proven basis will lead them to the OCMW. That can and should never be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u14	Minister, a few weeks ago an agreement was reached between the social partners on the welfare envelope. It respects the budgetary frameworks set out at first sight. Of course, the final cost of this additional social security expenditure will only be determined in the future, because it can be expected that the corona crisis and its aftermath will have an impact on the number of long-term sick and unemployed. An unexpected shock can also occur in the number of temporary unemployed. This can ensure that the budget reserved for the welfare envelope is still exceeded. The Law of 18 April 2017 on the reform of social security funding provides that the balancing dose to social security must take into account a number of factors of resilience. One of these factors is, I quote: 'to respect the budgetary neutrality of the agreements concluded between the social partners. The concept of agreements may be interpreted in a broad sense. The social partners will have to propose corrective measures. The Government then decides whether to implement the agreement in whole or in part and also takes a decision on the compensatory measures." Can you confirm, Minister, that if the final budgetary resources needed to implement the welfare envelope exceed the proposed budgets, you will ask the social partners to propose corrective measures? If the social partners fail, will you consider taking compensatory measures themselves or adjusting the implementation of the agreement so that the envisaged budgetary impact is not exceeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u15	You refer to the response factors provided for in the Law of 18 April 2017 on the reform of social security funding. However, as regards the stability of prosperity, the Act of 23 December 2005 on the Generation Pact already provides for consideration, in the context of the biennial calculation of the welfare envelope, of any additional costs and/or margins arising from the measures taken in the context of the welfare envelope of the previous period. For example, for the envelope 2021-2022, the additional costs generated by the measures taken in the allocation of the envelope 2019-2020 were taken into account. The report of the Federal Planning Office on the calculation of these additional costs is set out in Annex 4 to Opinion CRB 2021-1020/NAR 2213 of 19 April 2021. The additional costs and/or margins generated by the measures shall mean the difference between the total actual costs of the measures taken and the amount of the envelope provided for them, the data used as the basis for both calculations being identical. This means that the external factors that can influence the basic data must be neutralized. For example, the Federal Planning Bureau took into account the impact of the covid crisis in 2020 in both the calculation of the theoretical envelope 2019-2020 and the estimation of the measures taken during that period. Both calculations therefore take into account the impact of the crisis on the number of entitled persons, which is particularly important for the unemployment and living wage components, so that the health crisis is neutralized when calculating the additional costs and/or margins. Whether it's the response factors set out in the Law of 18 April 2017, or the calculation of the additional costs of welfare measures, no one should be burdened with the consequences of an unexpected external factor, such as the current health crisis. Finally, the resilience factors set out in Articles 23 and 24 of the Law of 18 April 2017 will not be applied in the event of excess of the welfare envelope due to the uncertain nature of the current estimate of the effects of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer, although it disappoints me in substance for two reasons. First, you reduce the whole story to the uncertain factor generated by the corona crisis and its impact and run-off. However, it is about much more than that. So it is just too easy for you to reduce the whole debate to the corona crisis, which you can easily hide behind. That is not serious and not very intellectually correct. Secondly, this is all the more true because social security and its financing are becoming less and less a matter for employers and workers. Indeed, the share that the government has adjusted, especially in recent years and certainly in 2021, is increasing. If only the opposite were true, but that is the case. It is therefore more important than ever that you, as a representative of the federal government and of the government, assume your responsibility, which you are not doing now. I understand that attitude is probably ideologically inspired. However, it is all too easy to hide behind the corona crisis, which sooner or later will not generate any additional expenditure. However, the expenditures that occur during the period of the corona crisis cannot all be reduced to the corona crisis itself. So it is a little too easy for you to get rid of it in this way, all the more so because, as I indicated and with which I conclude, social security is becoming less and less a matter for employers and workers, although the social partners often want to believe otherwise. However, the facts are completely different. In addition, you refer to the calculations of the Planning Bureau, which take into account the corona crisis and its impact. I just want to point out that even in the 2021 budget, the full impact of the corona crisis is not included, although it was already known at the time and there were measures that you knew would have had an impact even if that impact was not fully included in the 2021 budget. So I do not think that is a serious justification for your reply, but this is undoubtedly being continued. It will be a very interesting debate if we discuss the substance of the matter again, namely the affordability of our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u17	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, work and training are essential elements for the integration and participation of people with disabilities in society. Vocational adjustment contracts (CAPs) play a very important role. However, a Royal Decree of the previous government ended the social security coverage of training allowances with retroactive effect from 1 October 2017. This decree has produced dramatic consequences, both financial and human, for citizens who are already struggling to assert their rights. Persons with disabilities are paid a salary, taxed, which no longer opens up social rights. They must extend their professional careers to meet the new pension requirements. In the case of leave, they are no longer entitled to paid leave or holiday pay. If they are ill, no guaranteed wages will be paid to them. Benefits of several months, or even one to two years of work, are not counted as working time. Finally, those who care for one or more children will only be entitled to guaranteed family benefits, less advantageous than those paid to employees and self-employed persons. In 2009, Belgium ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Belgium is therefore committed to ensuring the rights of persons with disabilities, their inclusion in all policies and programmes and the elimination of all forms of discrimination against them. Since March 11, 2021, we have had a Constitution with an article 22ter which states that "every person with disabilities has the right to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation". Minister, are you considering an amendment to this royal decree to guarantee the rights of persons with disabilities? Have any discussions taken place within the government in this context? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u18	Mr Rigot, Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, adopted pursuant to the Act of 27 June 1969 revising the Royal Decree of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers, known as "ONSS Order" to simplify, provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 for an extension of the application of the ONSS Regulation for disabled persons with a contract for vocational training or rehabilitation and for valid persons with such a contract. These provisions have caused problems of perception for many years. On the basis of Article 3, 6° of the ONSS Order, the latter has always claimed payment of social contributions on allowances received by persons with disabilities in the course of their training. Regional institutions for persons with disabilities considered that only persons with disabilities who did not receive unemployment benefits, sickness and disability benefits or allowances for persons with disabilities were required to pay social contributions. At a later stage of the dispute, these institutions argued that valid workers with a vocational training or retraining contract and invalid workers with such a contract were not treated on an equal footing. Since the regionalisation of employment services, ONSS has no longer received social contributions for valid unemployed persons with a vocational training contract. Finally, ONSS accepted the argument and all ongoing prosecutions were dropped. In order to create the necessary legal certainty, the Royal Decree of 15 October 2017 repealed Articles 3, 6° and 3, 7° of the ONSS Order. Consequently, these persons are no longer subject to social security. Their employers no longer have to pay social contributions from the training allowances paid, but the persons concerned no longer have social rights. However, insurance against accidents at work has been provided to cover possible accidents at the workplace. The issue to which you refer was reported in 2018 by the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities (CSNH), which asked to reconsider the 2017 decision. The National Labour Council, which had previously issued a favourable opinion on the Royal Decree of 15 October 2017, joined the CSNPH's request in 2019. The previous Social Affairs Strategic Unit partially responded to this request. A draft royal decree has been drafted. It re-established the social security coverage of persons with disabilities who fulfilled the following two conditions: they were not yet entitled to unemployment or disability benefits, which means that they were already subject to social security because of their status as beneficiaries and before 1 October 2017, the date on which this article was repealed, they were bound by a special apprenticeship contract for the vocational rehabilitation of the disabled or a contract for vocational training or rehabilitation pursuant to Article 17, 2° and 3° of the Act of 16 April 1963. It was envisaged that the re-establishment of the liability would be possible until the end of this contract, which could be extended up to twice for a period of one year. This draft royal decree was subsequently blocked during the current business period. In the meantime, more than three years have elapsed since the abolition of Article 3, 6° and 7° of the ONSS Decree, and the current contracts, which were covered by the rectification order, have been terminated in the meantime. As I have already said, these are contracts with a maximum duration of one year, which can generally be renewed up to two times. When I took up my duties, the administration forwarded the project to my staff. They studied the problem and agreed with ONSS. The ONSS identified four elements. First, ONSS cannot identify the target group. The persons in question are members of the intern/small status group. Secondly, the problem is quite marginal. Already before the abolition, these people were often not declared. Thirdly, ONSS is not aware of any concrete complaints from the field. Fourthly, if we provide for a remedy only for the category of persons with disabilities, it would, according to ONSS, be unjustifiable discrimination against valid persons in the same situation. Indeed, we are talking about comparable, highly vulnerable groups that are difficult to integrate into the labour market and both benefit from precarious social protection. Contracts which could have benefited from a rectification measure have already de facto come to an end. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the vocational adjustment contract (CAP) is primarily training, which aims to enable people to develop their skills, thus facilitating access to employment. This is practical training, under the responsibility of the company, which ideally leads to a job afterwards. The persons concerned also receive a small allowance which is not considered to be a salary. We therefore find ourselves in the context of a training contract and not in the context of an employment contract. Consequently, persons who acquire practical experience under a training contract are not subject to social security and do not constitute themselves social rights as such. On the other hand, persons who provide professional benefits in the course of their internship are expected to work under an employment contract. These activities are still subject to social security. Whether or not social rights are created is independent of whether or not there is a disability in people. The creation of social rights is assessed on the basis of the existence of a training contract or an employment contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u19	Minister, your answer is very complete. I will not fail to take stock of this one with associations that have asked me, in particular Handijob'Project. I will eventually come back to you, because I hear that progress has preceded the current setback. We'll see together, the subject is so technical. In any case, thank you for this detailed answer. I'll come back to you in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the Act of 2 April 2021 on temporary support measures during the crisis of the Covid-19 extended the temporary extension of the scope of the Act of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, to the commercial private sector active in helping and caring for the elderly and for the reception and accommodation of the elderly, until 30 June 2021. However, it is up to me that the Superior Council of Volunteers (CSV), in a letter addressed to you, has been very critical of this decision which, according to him, is in keeping with the spirit of the law on volunteerism, since volunteers do not serve to fill staff shortages or to replace staff, because volunteerism organised by commercial companies, even in the social sector, represents an essential change in the foundations. The CSV stated that it had already given a negative opinion on Royal Decree No 24 of 20 May 2020 on the same subject matter and had not been consulted on the present legislative amendment, considering that this decision constituted a dangerous precedent, since other actors in the commercial sector could thus make use of volunteers, and volunteers trained and introduced into commercial institutions might remain active even if they were no longer legally necessary and without any form of social protection. Allow me to share this point of view, Minister, and to consider that, in this case, volunteerism is potentially disused, despite the fact that the health emergency could – at least initially – allow the use of volunteers in this sector. Therefore, what are the actual and legal justifications for the extension of this measure during Covid-19? What answers do you give to the arguments of the Superior Council of Volunteers? Why has the Higher Council of Volunteers not been consulted on this amendment to the Act, while the Act of 3 July 2005 directs you to seek its opinion on any draft legislation or regulation in this regard? What is the current volume of volunteers active in this commercial private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u21	Mr De Smet, at the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic, the previous government took several steps in the field of volunteering. Indeed, there was a great need, especially in the care sector and other essential activities. Fortunately, many compatriots volunteered spontaneously to help stem this crisis. Thus, during the first wave of the pandemic, the Government offered the opportunity to volunteer in organisations recognized by the competent authorities for the assistance and care of the elderly, as well as for their reception and accommodation in the commercial care sector. The annual lump sum payment has also been increased for volunteers working in key sectors and immunization centres. In addition, a compensation fund has been established to provide compensation for the deaths of volunteers working in the care sector or other essential sectors, as they are at greater risk of contamination. Given the persistence of the crisis, accompanied by high rates of contamination and hospitalization, the labour needs in this sector have remained significant. As a result, the government has been forced to extend the authorization to use volunteers twice, among other things, in the commercial care sector. I am aware that these are exceptional measures, but the period we are going through is also exceptional. The covid-19 pandemic obliges us to absorb the consequences for our society and to maintain the functioning of the health care sector and other essential activities. Since the measures are subject to the control of this unprecedented health crisis, we have always ensured that they are temporary. Once again, I would like to point out to this committee that these provisions will not be extended if they are no longer necessary for the control of the health crisis. The urgency and special circumstances of the covid-19 epidemic forced us to take action in the short term. This is why, given the short time and gravity of the present crisis, it has unfortunately not been possible to seek the advice of the Superior Council of Volunteers (CSV). However, except in exceptional circumstances, I am committed to closely involving this federal advisory body and the voluntary sector in any future adaptations or improvements to its regulations. For example, I have recently sought the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health on Ms Lanjri's request to provide an exception for vaccination centres to the principle of not being able to volunteer for the same employer. Last week, the Council gave me its negative opinion. With regard to numbers and the risk of disappointing you, neither the ONSS nor the Social Security FPS have data on the number of volunteers in the commercial private sector or elsewhere. In fact, in the case of paid work benefits, there is no obligation to declare volunteering to the ONSS. The payments received by volunteers must also not be reported to the tax administration. I asked my administration to consider whether registration of volunteerism was desirable and necessary. The figures may be useful, but we must not impose unnecessary obligations on organisations and volunteers as well as on administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u22	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his not entirely satisfactory but nevertheless complete response and for his commitment to the Superior Council of Volunteers (CSV). We will follow up on this file at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u23	Madam President, Minister, the 50th anniversary of the Accidents at Work Act of 19 April 2021 prompted the General Centrale - ABBV to issue a critical press release on the insufficient recognition and reimbursement of accidents at work. I would like to return to a number of points which they quite rightly mention in that press release. Firstly, the lack of willingness of employers to effectively identify accidents at work. Only one in three does so, in fear of the consequences, such as a possible higher insurance contribution. Secondly, the management of private insurance companies - which is certainly not the case in all countries - where profit-making is paramount and recognition and remuneration is undervalued. For example, the figures collected show that the rate of refusal is currently on average 13%, up to six times the rate in 1985. Furthermore, it appears that the companies often refuse to pay the full period of incapacity and underestimate the impact on working capacity, with the only way out of court. Thirdly, the heavy and dissuasive burden of proof which often causes workers to give in in the long term, with all the consequences for their status and for our social security, of which they are 'payable'. So, Minister, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, how do you intend to counteract employers' reluctance to report accidents at work for fear of higher premiums? Is it possible, for example, to make a link here with the prevention policy? If this is done properly, it can be taken into account for insurance premiums so that they would not increase. Secondly, how do you intend to ensure that victims of an accident at work are adequately protected, taking into account the high rate of refusal of insurance companies? For example, can more, but above all strengthened and controlled checks by Fedris provide a way out of this to review the decisions of the insurance companies? Finally, do you also see opportunities to alleviate the often heavy, bureaucratic and dissuasive burden of proof that rests on the victims' shoulders in one way or another?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u24	Madam President, Minister, my question is in the same direction as that of my colleague. FGTB's press release was launched to highlight the fact that many insurers – not all – do not recognize workplace accidents. This poses many very concrete and also very human problems. My colleague has explained this and I am not going to repeat it. In addition, the CSC, together with the trade unions, also denounces this situation. She's asking for a lot more checks. Minister, I come to my questions. How do you see your action in relation to this dramatic situation? The Federal Occupational Risk Agency (Fedris) plays a role in controls. In 20% of insurance refusals, Fedris believes this is not correct. What role do you think Fedris could play?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u25	Mr Colebunders' question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u26	Madam Chair, Minister, I am not going to be redundant either. My question arises as a result of the FGTB press article, which denounces the difficulties associated with the recognition of accidents at work and also highlights a growing tendency to under-recognition of such accidents. FGTB states that since 1985 the rate of refusal of recognition of insurers has doubled. Today, it is 13 per cent. According to the FGTB, the refusal rate would vary among insurers, with differences ranging from double to triple depending on the insurer managing the claims. As Ms. Moscufo pointed out, in 20% of cases, Fedris challenged the insurer's refusal decision. In addition, it should be noted that even when accidents are recognized, the FGTB makes it difficult for victims to obtain adequate compensation. The entire period of the victim's incapacity would sometimes not be taken care of, or the sequelae would be underestimated. Many grey areas remain to explain these differences in treatment. Minister, victims of an industrial accident should not have to undergo a combatant's journey in order to be compensated for the damage suffered. It is necessary here to clarify and clarify as much as possible the situations in which the victim can be cared for. Recognition should not depend on the goodwill of insurers. Are you considering amendments to the Workers' Compensation Act in order to stop any differential and unfair treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u27	Mr President, Minister, as my fellow Members have already pointed out, the ABVV states that employers report only one in three accidents at work. If that is true, this means that the safety and well-being of many workers are unnecessarily compromised. If, in fact, we systematically get away with unjustified refusals, preventive policy in the workplace will not be much of a proposal either. In addition, social security would also needlessly be pursued at a cost. At the same time, the ABVV argues that there are indications that too many accidents at work are unduly refused by insurance companies. The questions I have on this matter are mainly aimed at objectifying them. After all, I have already heard colleagues talking about dramatic situations. I am therefore interested, Minister, in what indications you have that too many accidents at work are unduly refused by insurance companies. How many insurance companies are guilty of unjustly refusing accidents at work? Is it about a few companies, or are almost all companies sick in the same bed? How many such unjustified refusals have been detected over the past five years? Is it true that employers report only one in three accidents at work? On the basis of which findings do you base your answer on that question? What can employees do if their employer refuses to report an accident at work? What policy measures are you considering taking in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u28	In any case, the FGTB can be reassured that we are reading their press releases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u29	I have another detailed answer for which you must give me some time. Based on the statistical report of Fedris for 2019, the overall refusal rate for industrial accidents is 13.3%. The same rate was 12.7% in 2018 and 11.7% in 2017. This raw statistical data must of course be analysed and therefore a little nuanced. Indeed, the important thing is not only the overall refusal rate, but the unjustified refusal rate. In order to determine this, Fedris carries out targeted checks on rejected accidents, either on the basis of requests for intervention or on its own initiative. For each of these files, Fedris conducts a substantive analysis, both technical and medical, and supports and advises the victim. In 2019, Fedris monitored a sample of 3,290 files, out of a total of 22,457 rejected files. After analysis by Fedris' services of this sample, it appears that only 11.4% of industrial accidents were wrongly refused for 2019. So it can be said that 88.6% of the refusals were justified. This data may be more important than the overall refusal rate, but it is complicated to compare 2019 with previous years, because every year there is an adaptation of the selection of the sample on which the Fedris control is organized. Correct analysis should take several years to identify relevant indicators and draw robust statistical conclusions. As far as solutions are concerned and to answer other questions, in the context of the declaration and recognition of an accident at work, different actors do have an important role to play. In the first place, employers. The obligation to report accidents at work, as determined by law, is clear and specifically protects workers' rights. Fedris monitors the employer's obligation to report the accident at work and intervenes in about 800 cases per year. After their intervention, some employers still report the accident. In addition, Fedris assists the victim or his or her successors in completing the declaration. In relation to the link to the prevention policy pursued, at present there is the system of increased risk, which aims to encourage the prevention of accidents at work. Companies with a disproportionate increase in risk compared to other undertakings in the same sector should therefore pay a flat-rate contribution to their insurer, which should use the amount for the prevention of accidents at work in the undertaking concerned. Fedris has no figures to show that only one in three accidents would be reported. I would also like to remind you, without being too detailed, given the time available, that an accident at work can be indicated in three different ways, depending on the type and severity of the accident. Regarding the insurers and the refusal rate, Fedris operates and tries to optimize all the information from its data bank of occupational accidents, which offers an updated picture of the management by the insurer. The "rejected accidents" service, which currently includes four administrative employees, thus verifies the rejected accidents in the private sector – in accordance with the 1971 law – and the public sector – cf. The 1967 Act. In the private sector, 10% of the accidents refused were automatically checked. In 2020, FEDRIS also checked - at the request of the victim or his representative - 281 accidents refused. The organisation selects the files to be checked on the basis of certain variables such as very high refusal rates. The purpose of these analyses is to identify possible management problems in certain insurers and/or employers or within the sectors of activity or in relation to the categories of victims. Given the means at its disposal, Fedris carries out more intensive checks on insurance companies, as well as on economic sectors with a higher refusal rate. In addition, a limited number of insurance companies voluntarily grant remote control to Fedris staff – making inspections more effective. Of course, Fedris could automate some of these controls and make them more targeted and effective, but this requires more IT investments. I can say the following about the concern for justice for the victims and the concern for the control of private insurance companies. In addition to the pure aspect of control, which I mentioned, Fedris is also trying to contribute to improving the functioning of the sector. For this purpose, the Audit Board examines inter alia the following issues: applications for intervention, fatal accidents at work and the contracts for accidents at work. The Audit Board also confirms the contract fees concluded between the victim and the insurance undertaking. Social inspectors and medical inspectors shall establish, through on-the-spot checks at insurance undertakings or on the basis of requested files, the anomalies or errors which insurance undertakings repeatedly commit in the management of occupational accidents files. A check shall be carried out, inter alia, on the contract fee between the institution concerned and the insurance institution, which shall determine the degree of permanent incapacity for work, the remuneration and any revision thereof. Inspectors shall immediately make individual comments or discuss them with the department concerned. The ratification of contract fees which do not comply with the legislation may be suspended or even refused. In addition, as I explained earlier, random checks are carried out on the basis of the profile of the insurance company in order to assess certain aspects of technical and medical management. Each insurance company shall receive, before the end of April each year, a report on the compliance of doctors inspectors with previous commitments and on the effectiveness of the measures taken, an overview of the results of the checks carried out and an invitation to the insurance company to take measures to prevent the deficiencies identified in the future, a response to the refusal policy, the results of the service for refused accidents, the verification of refused accidents and statistical data and the results of the ratification of the contract fees. Since 2014, Fedris has also used the possibility to bring disputes to the labour court itself. In this way, Fedris contributes to the case law on accidents at work. Of course, the victims of accidents at work must be at the heart of their work, but they also have an important role to play. The victim or the next of kin must prove three elements: the sudden event, the injury and the fact that the sudden event occurred during the execution of the contract of employment. It is important for the victim to report the facts to his employer as soon as possible and to be taken care of immediately after the facts. The Accidents at Work Act contains two legal presumptions for the benefit of the victim, namely a presumption of causal link between the sudden event and the injury and a presumption that the accident occurred through the implementation of the contract of employment. As soon as the victim proves that the sudden event occurred during the execution of the contract of employment, the victim is presumed to have occurred through the implementation of the contract of employment. It is then up to the insurance company to refute those legal suspicions. The possibility of replacing the obligation to report with a correct indication of the minor accidents in the First Aid Register has considerably reduced the administrative burden for such accidents, both for employers and victims. Registration in the first aid register shall be treated as an accepted accident. With regard to the role of the victim, it should be noted that, unfortunately, some cases were refused because the victim did not respond to summonses or requests for additional information. It is clear from what has been discussed earlier that there are already many contacts and interactions between the various actors, namely the victim, the employer, the insurer and Fedris, which facilitate the proper recognition of victims of accidents at work. The aim is to further improve the detection and recognition of accidents at work and to assist the victims even better. To this end, Fedris intends, firstly, to organise an information and awareness campaign for workers on the importance of a rapid and complete report of the facts to the employer and on the importance of rapid medical treatment. In the first instance, this will focus on the broadcasting sector. Secondly, Fedris intends to carry out stricter checks on the correct use of first aid registers in companies in cooperation with the FPS Employment. Thirdly, there is the organisation of more targeted checks using the available data in the Fedris database. Over the past two years, more attention has been paid to identifying wrongly refused files. It is also intended to increase the effectiveness of these controls. In my capacity as the appropriate minister, I can assure you that I have, of course, been sensitive to the communiqué of the FGTB General Centre. I also remain attentive, through the annual report presented to the Fedris Workers' Compensation Management Committee, to developments in the situation and I support all the actors involved in the process which enables the recognition of accidents at work, in particular Fedris, which plays an important supervisory role in this field. As for the actions that I can take, I will ensure that Fedris has the necessary resources to ensure its monitoring mission and, as far as possible, to expand it. The negotiation of the next administrative contract will be an ideal opportunity to implement the actions necessary to do so and to determine the means of doing so. Together with the social partners represented on the Fedris Management Committee, I will also support a legislative amendment if necessary. For example, if, with the help of Fedris's case law, there was a case law on a particular point, I would follow any regulatory changes that might lead to greater clarity. Finally, I would like to point out that I regularly consult with my colleague, Mrs De Sutter, who is responsible for accidents at work in the public sector. Fedris carries out controls in this sector as well. Harmonisation of laws remains a key objective that can only lead to greater clarity and fairness among victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. I've noted a few points. I don't know if I wrote everything down correctly. I also listened to the translation, but not everything was always as clear to me. However, I remember, first of all, that you cannot really confirm the figure of one out of three non-declarations. Secondly, I also note that you indicate that some of the refusals are unjustified. Thirdly, what reassures me is that Fedris has really thought about the way in which more targeted checks can be made. That's very important. You note, however, that automation would be a surplus. However, this automation requires investment. I think it is worth making these investments. However, it is also important to point out the awareness and information campaign. The government is therefore well aware of the fact that more can and must be done, to convince the victims of a full declaration and to carry out targeted checks. The only thing I would like to say is that the answer is very important, not only for the Members of Parliament but above all for the social partners. I refer not only to trade unions but also to employers. It is very important to discuss what is moving with them and to see if it is going in the right direction. I conclude, by expressing my hope that the 51st anniversary on 19 April 2022 can be celebrated somewhat grandiose. Thank you very much for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have a mixed feeling about what you're telling us. First of all, you say that what is crucial is not the refusal rate, but the unjustified refusal rate. I guess you know that, but that's the position of the insurers. I am concerned that, as a minister, you were taking the position of the insurers, which, I would remind you, are private companies. The unions also denounce the fact that compensation is used mainly for profit. That's what I'm a little worried about. What reassures me is that you say that you are sensitive to the arguments of the unions. You also say that if a case goes to court and there is jurisprudence, you will try to incorporate it into the legislation. It would not be missing any more, you did not take this into account! The problem today is that when insurance does not recognize a possibility of recourse to the court, but many people fall out of the net at that time. Indeed, the latter must make a real journey for the combatant. Here, in the Chamber, some wondered why we found this dramatic. I am obviously thinking of my friends in the service titles or my friends who work in construction. We're moving towards a hyper-flexible work organization. We are one of the most productive countries in the world. Precarious workers are poorly trained. Furthermore, if there were still figures to be given, I would remind you that today, a person dies every two days at his or her place of work. Every day 85 workers remain disabled for life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u32	May I ask you to conclude, Mrs. Moscufo? Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u33	I'll finish. Currently, there are 133 inspectors. If they had to control everything, it would mean a check every 26 years at each workplace. I am therefore not satisfied with your answer as to how you can solve this problem. We will not fail to return to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer and the figures. I note that you want to be attentive to the development of the situation, but also to increase the controls and make available additional resources in the next Fedris administration contract. You added that, if necessary, a legislative amendment would be made if there were jurisprudence. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the policy margin left to insurers affects both workers and our social security. The latter is charged as it has to reimburse medical expenses and pay compensation for incapacity to work through the mutuals in order sometimes to compensate for the absence of compensation from the insurers. Today, and in the current state of affairs, the only beneficiaries of the existing regulatory framework are insurers that analyze the issues based on their commercial policy or profitability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u35	Minister, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive and comprehensive reply. Your answer raises new questions, but there is nothing wrong with that in itself. The most important thing I remember is that you have indeed brought the necessary nuance and objectification into the debate, which is really necessary. I do not understand, for example, that a workers' organisation such as the ABVV considers it necessary to throw oil on the fire, whereas it is especially important to work together on safe working conditions. Of course, every accident at work is too much, but I understand that Fedris takes up his role if there is an accident. It is about control, but it is also about assisting victims. After all, it is not easy for everyone to claim their rights. That's not always easy. In short, I am very satisfied. As far as I am concerned, it is important, especially in this type of debate, that there should be sufficient objectiveisation. You have indeed done so, with a view to greater justice and proper control. If there is a need for additional investment in automation in order to be able to work more efficiently in this area, we cannot oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u36	Madam President, are these the last questions for today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u37	I really apologize, Mr. Anseuw, and then I really have to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u38	Mr Minister, the question that Mr De Caluwe and I are asking here is health-related. We're all worried about the hands on the bed. We need a lot of people in care in the next few weeks, months and years. Then we look in particular at the project Choose the care. My colleague Willaert has already asked you a question about this. On the basis of the answers you gave us then, I have a number of additional questions. Your written answers showed a great commitment to increasing the number of qualified healthcare providers. I also read that there were a hundred candidates for the project Choose the care when you gave us the answers. On April 27, 2021 we received an e-mail from someone who might have been selected. In a reply to him it was reported that 850 candidates had passed the selection tests, but that due to the limited budget only 194 people could start in September 2021. FeBi, the non-profit organisation that drafted that answer, also mentioned that the federal Parliament was asked for an extra budget in order to get more candidates started. I have a few specific questions about that. Are the 100 candidates you mentioned in your written reply the effective number that can start? Or is that the number that could start if there were enough budget? What's the status of the budgets at the moment? How many participants could start in September 2021? Is there gonna be an extra budget? Anyone who would like to start in September should start his/her notice period. This person really wants to get to work in healthcare, but he still has a few practical problems to solve first. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u39	Minister, we have weekly debates on the need for extra hands on the bed. A great deal of resources have been made available for this from both Parliament and the government. The big challenge remains, of course, to find those people. An initiative like hashtag We should therefore take care of it with both hands. This is what employees from other sectors or self-employed people who want to start a second career as a care professional or nurse want to give them the opportunity to retrain. When I submitted the question, I had received the message from one of the candidates that there are 850 candidates and that only a very limited number of them can actually start training in September. From the same person, I understand that this number has been raised to 750 to 800. You will probably be able to give more accurate figures on this later. That's good news. I am also pleased that you are aware of this problem and the urgency. Most of my questions have been answered by now. What is the cost for one participant per year for this journey?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u40	Madam President, tenders for the project are closed. The candidates have also gone through the admission procedures. In the end, there were no less than 863 candidates, of whom 774 met the administrative selection conditions. After the admission tests, 555 candidates were successful. That is, of course, a good success which we can be satisfied with. The course lasts four years, the cost per candidate is up to 170.528 euros for the entire course. Taking into account the budget differences for the journey of a nurse and a care professional and also taking into account about 10 % of loss due to cancellation, cessation or non-slags, FeBi, the responsible, selected 195 graduates to start the training. The project chooses care to be financed from the resources of the Health Care Staff Fund. A budget of just over €21 million is earmarked for private sector training under the Health Care Staff Fund for 2020. That budget is already available to FeBi. During our contacts, FeBi also informed whether the funds of the Healthcare Staff Fund for 2021 would be maintained so that more candidates could start. I do not have to tell you that the bill on the Health Care Staff Fund has recently been approved. Of course, I also welcome the unanimous support for this proposal. Now that the legislative proposal has been adopted, the funds for 2021 can be released and the sector will soon have the necessary funds for this training project, as well as for structural recruitment in the context of more bedkeeping. In this way, the funds for 2021 will allow a multiple of the successful to enter the project. Besides, there is also a similar project in preparation regarding the public sector. Everyone knows that care needs are great for qualified staff. Sufficient quality staff in care is also extremely important in order to ensure good health care for patients. I am therefore particularly happy that more people find their way to a job in healthcare.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u41	Madam President, Minister, you are talking about 555 graduates and you say that only 195 have been detained and that this is because there was not enough budget at the time. Am I to understand that, with the approval of the Health Care Staff Fund last week, more can start in September? Or am I just not getting it right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u42	I think that is the logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u43	Then I hope that it will all come just in time and that it can now speed up, because June is at the door. There's a big difference between 555 that could start and 195 that could actually start. We absolutely need those 300 others. I hope that the Health Care Staff Fund will be dealt with quickly so that more people can start up in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic479x.u44	Minister, I see that you are indeed fully supportive of the project, and I am very pleased with that. Apparently it has more success than expected, which is also a positive story. Certainly the people currently working in the healthcare sector are given a perspective of extra support for the bed. I am therefore pleased that the Health Care Staff Fund can also contribute to this. I would ask that the project be evaluated as well. Many people are interested in retraining, which is good news and encouraging news, that we must seize with both hands. In the future, an in-depth evaluation will be necessary or necessary to identify possible improvements. Thank you for that.
