ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u2	Madam President, yesterday was the international day for the commemoration of the Holocaust. We normally remember that every year in this hemisphere with an academic session. This year, unfortunately, that could not continue because of the covid measures. Since we have a history in this country with the Holocaust 25,000 people who were deported, Jewish people, Roma, Sinti and others, I would like to ask you whether it is possible today to observe at least one minute of silence at the start of this session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u3	In the Conference of Presidents, we decided, because of the health measures, to give priority this year to a video. It was broadcast yesterday on social media, with the voice of two young people, to confront the reality experienced by Holocaust witnesses and that of children who were hidden during the war. This video is poignant. You can find her on social media. I even advise you to look at her. It exists in a short version, but also in a long version, in order to give you the benefit of all the testimonials and thus to be able to feel what these young people think they will learn from this lesson and also carry for the future. It's also a message of hope. So I fully agree to stand up for a minute in memory of these victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u4	Madam President, in the light of what has just been said, it is, of course, a banal intervention. However, I would ask you to ask for the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments to the Bill No. 1696 which is about to take place
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u5	We shall deal with that question after the oral questions. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u6	Madam Minister, Minister, what has happened in the Netherlands in recent days is terrible. We can understand that there is a great deal of frustration about the corona measures, but boredom, brutality and social media should never be an excuse for violence. Let me be very clear, that has nothing to do with the corona measures, it is simply unacceptable senseless violence. The social media are not blocked by borders and some see the game of riots between Eindhoven and Rotterdam as well. That such a call could have serious consequences should be clear to everyone now. Shopkeepers and everyone in the cities are worried. Luckily it stayed quiet last night, but there is worried about the weekend. We must send out a very powerful signal and do everything we can to avoid riots before it goes wrong. My group therefore urges you to ask all the mayors not to allow demonstrations. There is already a ban on co-training today, let us go along with that clear line in terms of events and demonstrations. The police are tracking the reports on social media today, and that is a good thing. However, not allowing any more manifestation could also be a very important signal. Madam Minister, Minister, how are the police preparing for possible riots in our country? Are you prepared to instruct all the mayors not to allow any more manifestation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u7	Minister, Minister, it will soon be a year since our fundamental freedoms are severely restricted. Our society has been regent as ever for decades. In recent weeks, particularly in Europe, movements have been born against existing sanitary containment measures and not all of them are peaceful. For example, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands said a few days ago that his country had just experienced completely new riots. Do not believe, Madam Minister, that the situation in Belgium is very different! Exhaustion in the face of living conditions and fatigue are realities that we must respect. So I was not surprised to see, a few days ago, calls on social networks for a demonstration this Sunday in Brussels to stop the Corona measures. It seems that several thousand people have already expressed their interest on social networks. I was able to read that the Brussels-Ixelles police zone was in contact with the organisers but that nothing had yet been decided on the authorisation or prohibition. Unfortunately, given the events that have taken place over the last few weeks and months in Brussels, I am not reassured and we cannot take the risk of further disorder or violence. Madam Minister, I have recently asked you about your opportunities to intervene and play a more important role in authorizing demonstrations and gatherings that do not respect the rules and at which it is impossible to guarantee compliance with the barriers. The government must be very proactive in dealing with these phenomena. What forward-looking measures have been taken to prevent or frame a new demonstration in Brussels this Sunday? Have the initiators of the calls to protest been identified and contacted? What federal police system has been planned? What steps have been taken with local authorities and police agencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u8	Dear ministers, last week we were confronted with hallucinating images of coronarelles in the Netherlands: cobblestones were thrown at the police, windows were killed from a hospital, shops were looted and destroyed. It seemed as if the Netherlands was literally and figuratively on fire. We are very concerned that the riots would blow over to Belgium. Last week in Limburg, for example, a lot of reports on social media raised rebellion not only in Maasmechelen, Genk and Hasselt, but also in Antwerp, Sint-Niklaas, Kortrijk. We heard today that these messages are also circulating in Brussels. Of course, the corona measures weigh heavily and are hopeless for some people. Of course, the right to freedom of expression is very important, but we can never tolerate violence. We must therefore try to prevent violence and take effective action. The call for violence is reflected in reports on social media asking for crow's feet and molotov cocktails. In Maasmechelen there was even a fire bomb thrown at a former mayor's house. A lot of citizens and traders are very worried, because they can't do that anymore. How do our police forces prepare for any riots? Is there any consultation with local mayors and governments to avoid such riots?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u9	Mr Minister, my question is addressed to you. In the meantime, riots in Brussels have become commonplace. Many manifestations are therefore being abused by rioters to smash things up and down. The youngest riots are still fresh in our memory. There's another demonstration scheduled for tomorrow. Of course, we're holding our hearts for new riots. As so often we can expect the rioters not to be severely and quickly punished. They feel untouchable. In the Netherlands we also saw riots last weekend because of the curfew, which is now applicable there. In fact, there has been a parliamentary debate on curfew, not here in Belgium. Anyway, the reaction of the Dutch police to these riots shows us what a real lick-on-piece policy is. In Belgium we dream of fast law, but in the Netherlands they have what I call superfast law. If you throw a stone at a police combi on Sunday, you will be punished by a judge on Wednesday. In addition, the property is seized immediately, so that the damage caused is also effectively compensated. That, Minister, is a matter of urgency. That is a court of law, which plays briefly on the ball and avoids impunity. Minister, you say that you are also in favour of speedy justice, but your right to speed up the proceedings will ensure that the perpetrators are punished in two months or a few months' time. They are subpoenaed after two months and often punished much later. My right of rapidity, the right of rapidity that I propose and which is also the subject of a legislative proposal in Parliament, ensures that the perpetrators are punished after days and not after months, as can be the case in the Netherlands. My question to you is very simple, Minister. Do you think that, as in the Netherlands, it should be possible to be punished for such facts after a few days? Or would you agree that it is only after months that we have a ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u10	Minister, normally you and the Minister will have five minutes together for the answer. Two and a half minutes might be a little short to answer. You'll have a little more time, six minutes together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen with you, with horror, what has happened in the Netherlands over the last few days. That has nothing to do with normal protests. That's what I want to say. Crapular behavior of people who abuse the situation. We note that social media play an important role in this. Through social media, a crowd of people can be mobilized in no time to kick ass. That is why it is crucial to anticipate this, and that is what we are doing. Our security services are patrolling the Internet to see what's going on there. This is important for a good information position. We also see in our country that there are different types of calls to protest against the Corona measures. Mr. Pivin, there are calls for peaceful demonstrations, but that is not the case for all calls. We are following the phenomenon very closely and, for the moment, no one can predict to what extent these calls to protest launched on the Internet will be followed by effects. Fortunately, in our country, we have a fine-meshed network of security services, mayors and local parquets. Those local actors play briefly on the ball to smother such criminal behavior in the bud. I have every confidence in them. I refer to the mayor of Turnhout, who himself made contact with instigators and changed their minds, which was the strong work of Mayor Van Miert. I also refer to the prosecutor of Limburg, Mr Verheiren, who immediately sent a clear signal. Young people who call for riots, he said, will be prosecuted. He added the deed to the word, because a 15-year-old was immediately brought before the juvenile judge. What a bold act by Attorney Vermeiren. So the Justice Department can work quickly, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. In our country, we have different procedures of rapid law. However, the fast-track law introduced at the time with arrest was annulled by the Constitutional Court for violating the rights of defence. The many debates that have since taken place in Parliament's Committee on Justice have shown that the procedure of investigating judge, arrest and council chamber, which is our own, must be respected. This is a fundamental difference from the situation in the Netherlands. That does not mean that there is nothing we can do, quite the contrary. Our quick-track law makes it possible to bring offenders to justice after ten days. I notice that different parquets also use them. For example, the court and the court of Antwerp have already condemned the perpetrators of the events of New Year's Eve. Mr. Pivin, be reassured. We will invest in human and material resources for the accelerated procedure, so that justice is faster and more robust. A well-informed man or woman is worth two. So I advise everyone to think twice about it. Our security services and justice are ready to intervene. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately there are a lot of people in our country who have kept to the rules, no matter how hard these last few months have been. I would like to thank them again for that. Out of respect for them, I will also be very clear. Anyone who takes advantage of the situation to stir up riots and smash things up will be prosecuted and punished. He will also be presented with the bill. You can take that literally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u12	Madam President, I too would like to say the following first. There are people sitting on their gums, yet making every effort to follow the rules. There are young people who are walking the walls today, because they can no longer see their friends, but still persist. There are self-employed entrepreneurs who are really in the water, but are waiting patiently for them to start their business again and in the meantime hope for the best. I can quite understand that some people want to shout it out because of the difficult corona measures. However, we cannot and will never accept a small group of rioters who abuse honest feelings. The testimony of the Rotterdam newspaper shopkeeper, whose shop was beaten short and small, is engraved on the retina of all of us. Such violence has nothing to do with protests against corona measures. Calling for chaos and destruction is therefore tantamount to calling for damage to our society. Let me be very clear. There's no room for that. We will never accept that. For example, it has been proven in the Netherlands, where crowdfunding brings together thousands of euros immediately, to pay the repairs to the newspaper shop. A stronger signal that people do not accept such violence cannot be given. I have also closely monitored the situation in the Netherlands and have been in contact with my Dutch colleague Grapperhaus, expressed my support and supported him in the strict approach of the rioters. The destruction and plundering of shops in the current covid period by people who are already having a particularly difficult time, such as small entrepreneurs, is incomprehensible and unacceptable. Our police and security services constantly assess the risk of similar riots in Belgium. Social networks and other channels are constantly monitored, and our services are highly responsive. This is evidenced by the appearance before the youth judge of a minor who called for chaos in Hasselt. We obviously did not wait for the riots in the Netherlands. Last Friday, in consultation with the mayor of Brussels, Mr Philippe Close, I decided to ban Sunday's demonstration. I have also contacted all the mayors and pointed out to them the strict compliance with the co-vid measures in the event of demonstrations. It is not up to me, as you know, to ban demonstrations at local level, and when we talk about the rule of law, of course, the right to freedom of expression and the right to intervene are also important. However, it is important that the covid measures are taken into account and that is why I have also offered the support of the federal police to the mayors where necessary. There's also a meeting with the governors. Local police are involved through the Integrated Police Task Force. The Crisis Centre and the Federal Police Operations Board are involved and the OCAD continuously evaluates the threat. These kinds of demonstrations are an expression of a new way of protesting. I also promised a proactive and effective approach to this in my policy statement. There is no zero risk, but we are doing the best we can to prevent riots, destruction and so on. Our police and security services are available and ready around the clock.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u13	Minister, Minister, I am particularly pleased that you consider the Limburg Prosecutor to be a very good example. I'm convinced of that, too. Zero tolerance is very clear, but prevention is still much better than cure. If demonstrations cannot be banned, perhaps you can strongly discourage them or encourage mayors to do so. A breeding ground on social media has been created very quickly and in periods like this, the corona period, one should also think that this can happen very quickly. It is then up to politics to limit the breeding ground for this as quickly as possible by never denying the facts, by never approving violence, but also by not ignoring the pressure of all the corona measures on the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u14	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I will repeat: all measures must be taken, at the level of the government, to alleviate the growing distress and dismay of many of our fellow citizens. At your level and within the framework of your skills, all measures must also be taken to ensure compliance with the rules and public order. I hear your determination. It seems essential to me in order to support the work of our police services and the efforts of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u15	Madam President, of course the corona measures are heavy and, of course, there is a right to expression, but we cannot tolerate violence. That was very clear in your reply. In that respect, I was pleased to hear that both the police and the justice system are ready if there are riots to act and bring them to justice quickly. It is all the more important that the riots are avoided. Then it is also good to hear that social media is currently being screened to get to any initiatives quickly. It is also a good thing that mayors receive an e-mail from Minister Verlinden stating that there is a need for very careful handling of authorisations for certain events. Local authorities and mayors also have an additional role to play, in particular to engage in dialogue with people who are currently feeling frustrated. In this way we can avoid riots like those in the Netherlands, here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your right to speed is still not for me a right to speed. It's still a lot of months before there's a verdict. In addition, there is also the lack of punishment. You also initially communicated that you would carry out all the punishments, and then you said that more punishment would be carried out. Above all, however, we need swift punishment. Minister, it is true that the rapid procedure was destroyed by the Constitutional Court. Our bill dates from after. It has also been forwarded to the Council of State which has made comments. Amendments have been tabled. I can offer you rapid treatment for Parliament and a real and effective right of rapid action. Minister, I am afraid that your communication here too will be much stronger than your achievements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u17	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been involved in this collective effort of containment, including young people – in contrast to the fact that young people sacrificed the most beautiful moments of their lives to save lives. It is true, Prime Minister, that you have spoken a few words for them, not later than last Friday at the end of the Consultation Committee. However, these were neither thanks nor proposals for support measures. Today, however, this support is fundamental. If we are to be cautious about the new variants of the virus, then the time is not to be cautious, but to be extremely urgent because of the psychological and financial distress of all these young people. In response to this distress, psychiatric units try in vain to respond to too many requests for consultation and hospitalization. Prime Minister, you seemed to have understood this urgency by convening the various Ministers of Youth and Education. Forgive me, but the measures you have taken are insufficient. The younger ones – who absorb all tensions and sometimes even domestic violence – are thus deprived of some of their activities, for the benefit of adolescents. This set of communicating vases is simply unbearable, since it does not even meet the needs of the most disadvantaged, who are not entitled to extracurricular activities. As for the 18-25 year olds, they are simply forgotten. Of course, I am thinking of students, but also of young people, in precarious jobs or who simply do not. Therefore, Prime Minister, have you consulted with student federations, pediatricians and child psychiatrists? What is your testing and tracing strategy? To ensure the continued opening of schools, would it not be better to advance the vaccination of teachers? On the other hand, how do you support the mental health sector, but also single-parent families that literally can't do it anymore? Will you also take into account the vaccination of the most vulnerable to offer young people real opportunities? Finally, do you commit yourself today to investing heavily, as part of your recovery plan, in youth employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister: "I am a student. I am eighteen years old and I beseech you to hear our distress. First of all, I allow myself a first request: consideration. Take the time to consider ourselves, the time to listen to us!" These sentences, you understand, they're not mine. This is an excerpt from one of the many calls for help that have been glittering the press for several months. This is Alix Lejeune's. I relay them here because there is no place today where the voices of young people can be heard. Prime Minister, youth is suffering. The more the days pass, the more intolerable this suffering becomes to them. Today, with the reduction of social contacts, the loss of income of their parents and theirs, the increase of poverty, the prohibition of leisure, inappropriate measures because thoughts with traditional family patterns and I pass by, settle a psychological ill-being with dramatic repercussions. According to one study, 31 per cent of students showed signs of distress and 11.7 per cent had suicidal ideas. The situation is explosive. Prime Minister, not all young people have the right to vote, and even for those who have the right to vote, it is not customary for them to be involved in decisions on measures that affect them. We talk about them, we talk for them, but we don't listen to them. This feeling of impotence and injustice thus worsens their despair. I do not, of course, question the need to take action on this pandemic. Nor is it a question of opposing youth and seniors, but, Prime Minister, we must act today because we are putting our future at risk. To do this, we have to listen. We must co-build with our young people and involve them. Prime Minister, how do you intend to improve young people's access to psychological support? Proposals were made for our teenagers by the federated entities. How does the government intend to do its part? What are we doing now to get them out of the hole? How will the government involve young people, their organizations or, failing that, defenders of their rights, in thinking about the measures that affect them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u19	Mr Defossé, thank you for your Maydenspeech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, like many people, I am lost. While in the past year the government has barely given prospects to the population, to our traders, to the economy, you have now promised, on parole, a reopening of the contact professions, such as the hairdressers. Prime Minister, you do feel that this has created high expectations. And promise makes guilt, because meanwhile the agendas are full, the hairdressers take the necessary precautions and give them to be ready for it. However, a number of virologists, who act as shadow ministers in television studios every day, have sent other signals to the world in recent days. Those who want to do politics should be on a list of their own. After all, it should be up to you, as a government representative, to communicate. In the meantime, people from coalition parties of yours have also made a lot of statements in the media. The result is uncertainty everywhere. No one remembers. It's like an embarrassed balloon of hope being pierced. This ambiguity is only further fed by a government which meanwhile continues to be competent in silence, in everything, to wash its hands later as Pontius Pilate in innocence. However, the virological data you had at the time are the same as those you have now. Prime Minister, the people deserve a clear answer. Have you given false hope to the contact professions? I know that a consultation committee will be held on 5 February, but what are the chances that they will be able to open the doors in two weeks' time? How are you going to stop the conflicting reports of the virologists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am sure that, like me, you are saying, "But how do they do it?" How do these young people keep up? Remember, let us remember our 16th birthday, our first months; our 20th birthdays, studies, friends, guinea fowls. Unfortunately, today it is sadness, loneliness, uncertainty, discouragement and sometimes even anger that these young people feel. Many people feel that they are deprived of the essentials: to enjoy their loved ones without fear of passing on the disease, to see their friends, to work, or even to study under normal conditions, to travel, to love, and of course to project themselves in the future. I refer here to the findings of a study by the universities of Louvain and Antwerp, which shows that if psychological distress is present among the population as a whole, it is women and young people who are the hardest hit. It is these same young people who bear the heavy burden of restrictive measures. For them, and to avoid sacrificing this generation, it is imperative, Prime Minister, to rethink the measures. The experts do not say anything else. We know that, as we say very often: the balance is delicate. Balance is difficult to find. I don't envy your place, Prime Minister. Although vaccination allows us to see the light at the end of the tunnel, unfortunately, the arrival of these different variants makes some epidemiologists fear the arrival of a third wave. A year ago, the measures were taken as a matter of urgency, without necessarily thinking that this crisis would still rot our lives today, and without seeing the weight that would still be borne by the shoulders of the younger ones. Prime Minister, it is urgent to offer them concrete answers, prospects for the future, to tell them that listening and supporting solutions exist. It is imperative to hear them, to hear what they need now. Minister, I will have only one question: beyond the measures that have been taken concerning (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned this morning in my speech, these are very difficult times. This is exhausting, it's bitter. This is clearly a very serious situation, particularly for self-employed people who are still forced not to work, for temporary unemployed workers, which has an impact on their income. It is a time that is challenging for people who are forced to stay at home and who sometimes spend their day taking classes through a computer screen and who have little opportunity to meet people outside the place where they live. This is a clearly difficult time for students. In fact, questions have been asked about them. The period – I repeat – is very difficult and contrasts with the life that students would normally have led. We are all aware of the situation here. But we must be able to say honestly that there is no perfect solution. For people who have lost their jobs, they have been tried to find income by establishing the bridge right, by giving them access to unemployment benefits. We also authorize activities when possible and when justified. Are the answers perfect? I doubt it. But we are very aware of the potential damage that variants of this virus could cause. This damage can be devastating, as is already the case in other countries. In our country, the situation is, for the time being, more advantageous than in other countries. Taking steps to try to maintain this advantageous situation is, in my view, a wise choice. But I understand that, for students in particular, the current situation is difficult. The question of the distress of the students to which you referred was discussed at the Consultation Committee on Friday. Besides, as you said, at the press conference, I addressed the young people. In addition, I was pleased to note that the Ministers of the Regions and the relevant Communities have put forward a proposal to re-establish the possibility of activities for an age group when this was no longer the case. This subject has been discussed in federal kern and will be translated into ministerial decree within the next few hours. This shows that working together with the competent ministers of other governments is helping to find solutions to the concerns we have. I would like to make another appeal in that regard. I call for caution. The situation, with the mutations, is very delicate. Caution must be our guiding principle, but I would also like to call for some rest in communication. Let us all, and I am not just talking about people who are politically active, confine ourselves to matters where we have facts. I know that we ask ourselves a lot of questions and that there are many doubts, but the guiding principle should be caution and calm at the moment. Mr Van Lommel, you are asking a very fair question about the perspective for the non-medical contact professions, a question of perspective that also lives with the catering industry and with people in the event sector. There are many sectors that want to be active today, but many in those sectors also say 'let's be careful, don't open us up to say a few weeks later that it's impossible'. The only way to deal with that in these very unstable times is absolute honesty. That's the communication I made on Friday. On Friday I indicated that non-medical contact professions will be the first priority. Today it is not possible to open. At the earliest one could open on 13 February, if the figures improved. That makes sense to me, too. I was just talking about caution and rest. The Federal Government has used this method over the past few days, and frankly, caution and calm are the only way out of this situation. The situation in our country is not as bad as in other countries and caution and calm will help us to maintain that favourable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that the arrival of variants has completely changed the deal, but we have the tools to answer it. Still, they must be used properly. That is why I regret that, even when it comes to responding to the call for the help of young adults, the adults of tomorrow, in the end, there is still no unity of command. How can we explain that today there are different testing strategies in our schools, in the north and south of the country, when it comes to tracking the same virus and the same variants? As for the measures already taken, they must be implemented. Again, how can it be explained that young people are penalized when it is well known that compulsory adult telework is still not fully respected? In the longer term, Prime Minister, it is not a combination of measures that are necessary, it is a real plan for reviving young people, with the establishment of an interministerial Youth Conference which brings together the various competent ministers to rely on access to scholarships, unemployment or training. These are my wishes. Because by tightening the screw around the youth (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you. I understand that in the light of the situation, it will be difficult to relax the rules in the coming weeks and I agree with your appeal to stick to the facts. I also hear the distress of this youth, which is also a fact. Not only is it urgent to listen to it, but we must also, now, think of the future. How are we going to pay for the social deficit towards young people? We will have to give them opportunities, allow them to flourish socially and economically, through concrete support measures, but also allow them to flourish democratically. We need to send them a message to prove that they are fully part of society and have the right to speak. I am thinking, for example, of an important measure contained in the government agreement, which we need to achieve in Parliament as soon as possible. It is the right to vote at 16 years of age. Indeed, these young people are citizens and they deserve to be considered as such. I will again borrow words from a rheto class in early January: "Today, despite the economic and social crisis ahead, we want to consider a better future. This future, it is up to us to create it. Together, we will become architects of our democracy." They're right, Prime Minister. The present and the next must be done for them and with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Those are tough times, aren't they? You talk about peace and quiet in communication, but people are counting on you to communicate, above all. You have not answered my question today. I can only conclude that you are not a leader and are mainly led by some virologists who want to enjoy media attention every day. No one takes your government seriously anymore, no one takes seriously the less serious virologists who consider media actions more important than doing research into the virus in their lab. Who can blame them? Your own coalition parties stated in the press last week that it is time for the hairdressers to open up again. It's like a charade here, colleagues. Prime Minister, it is time for you to recapture yourself, show leadership and, above all, finally stand up for the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u26	Madam President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You are right: the effort must be collective. Art is difficult. I will not fall into the easy criticism of the very complicated measures that must be taken. But this generation will have learned very early what solidarity is in everyday life. The efforts they have been making over the past year are to protect the most fragile, the oldest. Being a teenager, being a young student today, it's metro-school-visio-do. It's spending his Saturday nights in his room, and this, at an age where we'd like to flirt with more freedom. Fortunately, we have made the choice of keeping schools open – even though we know that these young people need more. They need air, they need festivals, meetings, shows. Anyway, they need freedom. I am also thinking of those young people who were already working to pay for their kot, often in bars, restaurants, concert halls. We've opened the doors of the CPAS to them, but that's not enough. Better solutions must be sought, perhaps a form of temporary unemployment, for example. All leads must be studied. In any case, Prime Minister, we must be with these girls and boys who will have the responsibility to carry the world of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u27	Madam President, Minister, yesterday we learned – and I welcome it – that a collective labour agreement (CTC) on recommended or compulsory telework had been concluded this Tuesday by the social partners. That's a good thing. It was time because "compulsory home telework", as reflected in the various ministerial decrees during this crisis, was not included in any legal framework, no legal framework. Thus, neither the CTC 85 which regulates structural telework and which requires an agreement between the employer and the worker, nor the law of 5 March 2017 which provides for occasional telework in cases of force majeure, applied, since in these two cases it was telework on a voluntary basis. That's not the case here. Nowhere in the legislation was there any mention of "compulsory home telework", which created a legal blur, a real legal vacuum that could harm both workers who found themselves in a new organization that had not been coordinated, but also companies that already had difficulties and might find themselves faced with claims for compensation. CTC No. 149 is therefore welcome but, despite this, there are still outstanding issues. The CTC refers to "recommended or compulsory telework", and not, as in the decrees, "compulsory telework". Why this name change because we want to avoid legal uncertainty at all costs? Then, what about the public service? It is known that a CLC does not apply to public service contractors or statutory employees. In this case, a CLC is not a derogation from the law on employment contracts. How can we avoid all appeals? Finally, the CTC is only effective from 1 January 2021, so now. What about the past, the year 2020 when this telework was already applicable? What will happen for businesses that did not have any provisions before January 1, 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I welcome the agreement reached on Tuesday between the social partners. This is proof that social dialogue and social dialogue are still working in our country. I hope that this bodes well for other agreements on specific or more general issues. I won't make you a drawing to make you understand what I'm thinking. The highly recommended or compulsory supervision of telework was one of the first elements that I submitted to social consultation, after taking up my duties. I am therefore particularly pleased with the unanimous agreement reached in the National Labour Council. It is well known that it is important to be able to regulate telework, which, while having certain advantages, also presents certain difficulties or risks. The CLC No 149 as it is known today provides for important measures for workers. First, technical equipment and assistance will be guaranteed by the employer. If the worker uses his own equipment, the employer will contribute to the installation and use of the equipment. Secondly, the right to privacy of teleworkers is reaffirmed. The rules on safety, health and well-being at work are strengthened. In addition, special attention has been given to vulnerable persons, particularly in the fight against the risk of social isolation. In my view, these are exemplary measures which are the result of this social concertation. This CLC is a surrogate CLC in that it applies only to companies which had not already established a special regime for structural or occasional telework which was not specifically framed. But it ensures legal certainty for both workers and employers. As you mentioned, of course, it does not apply to the public service. But I know that steps have been taken to have similar provisions for the agents of the latter mutatis mutandis. I would like to conclude my speech, Madam Commissioner, by saying that I hope that this agreement will pave the way for other agreements to come, but also that we can go further, particularly in the area of teleworking, by reviewing the CTCs Nos 85 and 85a to make them stick to the air of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, this CTC is positive and we welcome the work done by the social partners. Social consultation is of course a priority. This is trying to fill a legal vacuum, you said. It's not perfect. This does not address all aspects. With regard to the public service, as you said, we will have to move forward, because today there is nothing about it. Once again, I welcome all the work done by the social partners, but I still want to stress that for such a complex matter, a debate in Parliament with all the actors was justified. In my opinion, that would not have been superfluous. In any case, this will have to be taken into account in the context of a future "pandemic" law. Such a law is provided for. It is essential that the telework aspect, in all its aspects, be taken up again. You mentioned well-being at work. I would remind you that this is an imperative of the law and cannot be derogated from. The CTC does not settle everything. She reminds him, but she can't fix anything. I would remind you that for the majority of the most disadvantaged workers, telework often boils down to a laptop on a kitchen table. Maybe it's not ideal!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u30	Madam President, Minister, the previous and current governments have well anticipated the economic consequences of the corona crisis by applying the temporary unemployment system. This will enable workers and companies to make it through these difficult months. But the huge influx of files has led to major problems in the Emergency Cash for Unemployment Benefits, beginning with the second wave and still, up to today. The communication is inadequate, the offices are largely closed, mails are often not answered and the phone is not answered. Once a file has been submitted, some have to wait three to four months before a benefit is paid. In the meantime, those concerned have no income, but continue to receive invoices. No one's gonna be able to keep that up. We know the cause of the problems and we have talked about them several times. A certain percentage of the files is very complex. The research by the experts also takes a lot of time. The staff is working twice in order to process the requests, for which much credit is due, but unfortunately it is not enough. You have taken a number of measures to reduce the backlog and to increase accessibility. Appreciate that. De Hulpkas has recruited new employees, students have joined and internally has been reorganized. The complaints, however, remain. The government has a duty to ensure that right holders can easily contact the Auxiliary Cash and that the files are also dealt with quickly. It's about people's income. They have no message of the reasons why this is happening, they are entitled to a solution and, above all, to their benefit. Minister, what measures will you take in the short term to deal with the delay in dealing with the dossiers? We have heard many times that complex dossiers cause a large part of the backlog. Will you request reinforcements from other federal services, for example at the RVA? If necessary, consider the involvement of unemployed staff (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u31	Mrs De Jonge, in the topical debate on 12 January, I have already given some answers on this dossier. The situation of the HVW is very worrying. Every day I receive testimonies from people who have great difficulties in getting their benefits. This leads to a dramatic situation. This situation is clearly unsustainable for the persons concerned. The HRW staff are nevertheless making enormous efforts to help citizens as best they can. They do a lot of overtime and work on weekends and during the professional. Many are exhausted, but they persist because their work is important. For my part, I try to support the people of HVW and improve things as much as possible. This month I have allowed another month to postpone the checks so that the staff can concentrate on the payments, but we must remain sober. As far as additional staff are concerned, I am convinced that the workers recruited as a result of the crisis should continue to work in 2021. That is why I supported the request of the HRW to use the funds from the corona commission. The Secretary of State for the Budget has not yet addressed this issue, but I hope that a decision will be taken soon. Your question gives me the opportunity to express my appreciation for the work of HRW staff once again. They must work in particularly difficult circumstances. They work very hard, for which I would like to thank them. Like health care personnel, these workers are on the front line today. The serious incident today in an office of Pôle employer in Valence in France is a painful example of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u32	Minister, I realise that you are doing a lot of work, and I am not saying that the staff do not. It is quite clear that these people are making a huge effort, but a temporary unemployed person who does not get his benefit is one too many. They are families who are in poverty because they are no longer able to pay the invoices that arrive at the beginning of the month. It is clear: despite the government's interventions and the staffing, there is a problem in terms of organisation and communication. I hope that you will be able to find solutions to this in the short term. It can't be that people are almost forced to join a union to get early benefits. That would be a shame. I also hear that there is a demand for budget, and I am sure that you, together with the Secretary of State, will certainly ensure that there is a budget to deal with this problem quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u33	Madam President, Minister, dark clouds have been gathering over our economy for months. The balance of power between our entrepreneurs and the banks is at present completely distorted and the negotiating position of many small self-employed people is very weakened. Unlike the first lockdown, since the second lockdown, banks have not been willing to allow further deferral on loans. Especially our hotels, restaurants and cafés, the many event companies, hairdressers and beauty salons, but also, for example, clothing shops are hard hit and have a particularly difficult time in their negotiations with the banks. We are therefore getting more and more alarming reports that no one here should leave unmoved. Marijke, a restaurant owner from Antwerp, must first clear out the savings book of her seven-year-old son. Sofie, a restaurant owner from Limburg and a loyal customer of the bank for years, must first chase through a gift from her grandmother. Other banks, in turn, require very high guarantees. Small self-employed, hairdressers, café bosses, restaurateurs, managers in events, shopkeepers etc. who cannot be assisted by a good accountant or a financial expert in such a negotiation often gets the short cut. SME owners are backed up against the wall and ultimately have to swallow what the bank decides. Personal dramas are currently taking place for many self-employed people sitting on their gums. The water is already above their lips. The last pennies in the greenhouse are counted. How will you restore the relationship between our most affected entrepreneurs and the banks and strengthen the negotiating position of the most vulnerable small self-employed? The banking bazooka of your predecessor, then Minister of Finance De Croo, turns out to be a faint water pistol. How will you redirect the guarantee scheme and delay payment to support our companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u34	Madam President, Minister, COVID-19, like the 2008 banking crisis, is causing a global crisis whose impact will be reminiscent for years to come. As during the banking crisis, the governments in our country are handing out billions of euros, but this time to the entrepreneurs and the workers affected. I think that is normal and I have advocated it several times here on Thursday. However, we continue to receive disturbing messages from entrepreneurs who do not receive a delay in payment for credits. We read hard testimonies in the press. There is a demand for the savings to be emptied and even for the children's piggy bank to be touched. That is unacceptable. For people who have never been in debt, there seems to be no goodwill and too often too high costs are charged. Minister, the banks have a role to play in our society, they must be there for entrepreneurs and citizens, just as the government was there for them after the financial crisis of 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has some hard issues at the moment: young people, education, care and so on. It is also hard on entrepreneurs at the moment, and I would ask the banks to take their social responsibility. Minister, are you in consultation with the banking sector? Which way does that go? Are you planning initiatives at European level to amend the EBA Directive as regards the deadline of 31 March, so to speak tomorrow, and the deadline of up to 9 months? What are you going to do about the excessive or unjustified costs? Finally, will the guarantee scheme for bridging appropriations be extended? Will it be extended to bank debts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u35	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week I was on exactly the same subject with a very clear signal. The water is on the lips of a lot of entrepreneurs. Their bank is threatening to push them all the way down. Since last week, the testimonies of self-employed people have been raining with only one message: help us, because we are no longer able to make it. Self-employed people go to their couch with a demand for extra financial breathing space and get the door on the nose. They are then expected to open up their children's savings or to raise their pension funds already. Colleagues, it cannot be stressed enough that this is about entrepreneurs who we have asked to stop their activities, to keep our health system up to date. They demand and deserve our solidarity. What's happened since last week? We have already had a debate here on the contagion rates. Despite the enormous sacrifices we have already asked of them, the situation remains very difficult and even more pragmatous than ever. Minister, have we heard the banks? They confine themselves to dry comments, such as that they will look at the case file on a case-by-case basis. What I see is that the pile of rejected files is thickening per file. That is unacceptable to the sp.a. That is why I ask you to do two things. Firstly, can you please ensure that the agreements we have made with the major banks are kept to the last decimal place? Secondly, given that the health crisis and its impact on our economy are unfortunately continuing, are you prepared to consider whether we can take additional measures to better support entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u36	Minister, have you heard the scandalous stories about entrepreneurs, self-employed people working in the catering sector and restaurant operators who are told by their bank that they are no longer being helped and are not being delayed for their loans? I get these stories with dozens in my mailbox. You also read the file in the Latest News. Let me just read out what Marijke says there. Marijke goes to the bank: "They looked at all my accounts and saw that there was some money left in my seven-year-old son's account." "Use that first." That was said in the office of a Belgian bank, to Marijke who can no longer keep her restaurant open. That has been said by the banking sector. For example, there are thousands of stories in which banks only think about money but not at all about the real economy. Minister, stories like this, I have dozens. Independents in the Horeca sector, in the restaurants tell me: "Raoul, the credits, they don't post them!" We saw what happened with the Belfius Bank Ceo, Mr Raisière, who said: "Yes, it's normal, let's take advantage of this crisis to clean up the sector!" That is what all these banks actually think: that the poorest, the weakest, the smallest, may die so that the big ones can buy the whole mess! I will be very clear, Minister. All these stories make one thing clear: the government's measures are totally inefficient. Why? The conditions for postponing payment of these loans are the problem. Minister, I would ask you to send out the message that all these conditions will be lifted during the crisis and that the banks will no longer be able to impose conditions for postponing the payment of loans. May I ask you to take this position today, and not as always blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u37	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my mouth literally fell open when I heard that entrepreneurs must first take the savings of the children before they can get deferred payment. That is unacceptable. It is not only unacceptable, it is also contrary to the rules of business financing. Even more, entrepreneurs who have financial problems are first applied all kinds of financial products in exchange for credit. That too is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, during the hearing, we heard that self-employed people who have financial problems usually come first to family and friends. Only when they can no longer do so will they go to the banks, but then they will be put against the wall with their backs, because the banks have more power than the small self-employed. We must not tolerate that either. The entrepreneurs did not choose to close themselves, we asked them to do so before the health crisis. They want nothing more than work, but they suffer turnover losses. They see the financial reserves for which they have worked hard over the past few years, shrinking and melting like snow for the sun. They're really in trouble. Minister, we need to get companies that were healthy before the crisis through this crisis. We need to ensure that they can start after the crisis. We can't let them go. We must not lose these healthy companies. The practices of the banks are therefore incomprehensible. They must take into account the creditworthiness of each company and must not focus on the children's money. Mr Minister, my questions are very simple. What do you think of such practices? Especially, what will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u38	Minister, it is something for me to say: this nothing-gentle, sneaky COVID-19 beast not only plagues our health and our social lives, but also the economy and the financial sector. The headlines about the arbitrariness in lending upset many people and cause commotion and anxiety. A statement such as 'talk to your children's savings' or the incomprehensible statements of a top banker who says that we sometimes need a good wave of clean-up to separate the chaff from the wheat, of course, does not help, quite the contrary. Looking through it, I see a very dangerous trend and even a malaise in the credit market. The fragile balance on this market is going to be out of balance, with disastrous consequences for the entire financial sector and, consequently, for the ordinary people in the street. On the one hand, there are the powerful lenders who seem to be more defensive, probably with the debacle of the banking crisis of a few years ago, with billions of cheap European money to be pumped into the injured economy. However, they forget that they survived this crisis thanks to massive public support. On the other hand, there are the very badly affected entrepreneurs, the engines of our economy, who crave credit but run into a banking wall. This malaise must be brought to an end as a matter of urgency. In this context, I would like to receive an answer to the following questions, Minister. Will you, like your Flemish colleague Crevits, send a strong signal to the lenders? Are the purple-green government and banking supervisors sufficiently aware of the imbalance outlined above? If so, may I hope that what additional concrete and vigorous measures will you take to restore that imbalance, knowing that there is a lack of a third lockdown and that the current measures are not sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u39	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, independent entrepreneurs and SMEs are an important part of the social fabric of our society. They were the strength of our economy before the crisis and they are once again the strength of our economy after the crisis, but today, in the midst of the crisis, one in four of them faces financial difficulties. We know that these difficulties are temporary in nature. That is why we must help them, and for that we are looking at the banks. The banks were in the situation of some of our SMEs today ten years ago, namely financial difficulties with a risk of bankruptcy. All of us together, all of the inhabitants of this country, said that we would not let that happen. We have intervened and no Belgian bank has gone bankrupt. Today it is up to the banks to show the same solidarity to our self-employed. When I hear the CEO of one of our large banks say that the catering sector needs to be cleaned up properly by letting a number of cases go bankrupt, I frown on the eyebrows. When I read the testimony of self-employed people with a healthy company who are told by the bank that they must first use their children's money before they get extra credit, then the hair will stand on my arms. Mr. Minister, enterprise is more than just numbers. It is not for nothing that many of our companies are interwoven or embedded in the social fabric of our society. It's up to the banks to take responsibility. We all win the battle against the corona virus together. That is why I have this question for you. Are you prepared to convey that message to our banks in no uncertain terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot repeat it enough here today, and it has also been made clear by some of you: today we are calling on everyone to make very hard and unseen efforts. We call on our young people, our students, the workers who sit at home with their families and telework, the grandparents, who cannot meet and cuddle with their children and grandchildren, and our entrepreneurs, who have put all their haves and well into their business, some of whom have been closed for months. We are doing all this for each other, because we want to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible and restart our society and our economy. When I read messages from entrepreneurs who close their doors and take their responsibility, but at the same time do not receive reasonable help from the banks, I say: that cannot be done. From day one, it was our concern to get healthy businesses through the crisis. The government did. We have never seen any efforts and have taken measures to get through the crisis. We've asked everyone to play their part. Everyone has to play their part, including the banks. We ask everyone for solidarity, reasonableness and humanity. We showed solidarity, as some have said, a number of years ago when the banks themselves were struggling. Well, we're asking the banks today to take on their responsibilities, to show solidarity and to take on their social role. I would like to return to the agreements made at the beginning of December. We then made a number of agreements in consultation with the banks and, of course, on the basis of the rules laid down by the European Banking Authority. EBA had said that there could be a postponement of entrepreneurial credits, but that it should not take longer than nine months. Was I satisfied and happy with that? No, but on that basis we have moved to the banks and we have consulted them, with one goal, a goal that is in everyone's interest, namely to ensure that we can get healthy businesses through the crisis. We made a deal. The extension shall be granted in respect of any request for a delay of less than 9 months. If a company requires a delay of more than 9 months, the bank will be contacted for a case-by-case approach and a personal approach. But what I read in articles and what you quote is unacceptable. If there are any questions about the case-by-case approach, if it turns out that it does not take place in a human, reasonable and solidarity manner, then that is inadmissible; then that is unacceptable. It's that message I delivered yesterday to the banks and to Febelfin. Clear and clear. I did add that we need to look for solutions. We cannot simply call on the banks to solve the problem. So we are now looking for solutions together. I have a number of proposals here today. A first proposal is to extend the moratorium and to check whether companies that have not received a 9-month delay can still count on that period and therefore an extension. The problem today is mainly with companies which have been delayed for more than 9 months. For the case-by-case approach, we need to make much clearer and uniform agreements with the banks. It remains the responsibility of the banks, let that be clear. I have nothing to say in that. But I expect the banks to show clarity, that they make uniform agreements, that they justify why someone gets or doesn't get a reprieve. I expect clear rules and no arbitrariness in their decisions. Yesterday I made an agreement with Febelfin that we should work out a procedure together. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one comment. It's not an easy message. We obviously have the objective of leading healthy businesses through the crisis, and we are taking action to do so. But, of course, we must dare to say that we cannot keep structurally unhealthy companies, zombie companies, virtually alive. That's not an easy message. We must avoid a snowball effect, resulting in bankruptcies in our healthy businesses. We must dare to say that. To conclude, yes, ladies and gentlemen, banks must assume their responsibilities, show solidarity and play their social role. Yes, we are looking for solutions, such as the extension of the moratorium or the case-by-case approach, based on clear agreements. In this way, we can meet our common objective, which is to lead healthy businesses through the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u41	Minister, if new taxes are to be introduced, your tax administration will not be able to do so quickly enough, but if our companies and their employees need to be supported, then suddenly it will all be a lot slower. It's time to start shooting. More than ten years ago, the hard-working citizens and entrepreneurs of this country saved the banks. Today it is high time that these banks finally do something in return. The hardest affected sectors have been showing great solidarity for months by closing their doors correctly, with no revenue and no perspective. We do not see the same solidarity with the government and the ministers. Give our entrepreneurs new opportunities at the banks. Make it clear to the bankers that we saved them in 2008. Support our entrepreneurs in their negotiations with these banks and finally give the sectors most affected a clear perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. The government was there for the banks, when they were on capsize not so long ago. Now, these banks must be there for entrepreneurs, and certainly, as you rightly point out, for those entrepreneurs who were healthy and who had big plans or wanted to make investments just before the start of this unprecedented crisis. The governments in our country, all together, support our entrepreneurs for many billions of euros. These measures are absolutely justified, and everyone supports them. However, it cannot be that the banks do not fully fulfil their role. Their support is now essential and the behaviour of some banks is unacceptable. I'm glad you accepted my words. Minister, we are counting on you. Today's rescued entrepreneurs are tomorrow's bank customers and they are the engines of prosperity the day after tomorrow. I'm looking forward to your action. We're not dropping the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is very good that you have pointed out once again how great the sacrifice we have demanded from so many entrepreneurs is. They rightly call for our solidarity and they deserve it. You have also said that it is totally unacceptable if the banks cannot achieve that solidarity. I appreciate that you have said this so clearly and that you have also sent the signal to the banking sector. Now I also expect a clear response from the banking sector. The Minister's signal is a matter, and there must now be a clear signal from the banking sector. Mr Minister, it is true that you are not the banking sector, but we are the largest shareholder of a bank, of Belfius. If the rest of us do not want to invest in supporting healthy companies, then we should think about how we can do it ourselves with our own bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u44	Mr. Secretary, what a blah, blah, blah. Everyone says, scandalously, that cannot happen again, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Has anyone in the room understood what the minister is going to do now? He is going to ask the banking sector to show a little more solidarity. What do you think the four large banks in Belgium will answer? Yes, Minister, we are certainly going to do that, and hopefully, we are going to go back to the order of the day. Mr. Secretary, you must intervene. You leave the gate open to make case-by-case analyses. The banks make use of that. Here's Marijke's case. Marijke, how much is left in your baby's savings account? That's case by case. That's what it's about. Life will just go on. Everyone here knows that. I'm asking the Minister to intervene. The conditions for lending must be lifted, because that is what the banks use. Minister, these conditions must be lifted. Don't bring up Europe, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, The PVDA has chosen. If we have to choose between the large banking sector and the self-employed, then we choose the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u45	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your very strong signal, but also for bringing some nuance into the debate. Many legitimate support measures have already been adopted in Parliament. Of course, the possibilities for aid are not endless. We must also respect rules, including European rules. We also understand that our banks are not charitable institutions, but we have to remind them of their social responsibility and their social role. The banks must be empathetic to the entrepreneurs. Above all, they must be creative and seek solutions for every entrepreneur. You're right to make rules about that. Above all, the banks must not forget that we have all been very creative and very empathetic to them here during the banking crisis. We all ask our entrepreneurs to be creative and resilient. It is up to the banks to support that resilience and ensure that the resilience of healthy entrepreneurs does not break.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u46	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would very much like to hear you say that you will work with the financial sector to find a solution. You score good points in the opposition. I would nevertheless recommend that the financial sector take a good look at what happened ten years ago. They were then out of the often self-induced shit helped by massive state aid. Now they are being asked to show solidarity with those entrepreneurs who have fallen into difficulties completely out of control. It seems logical to me that you should emphasize this. You have passed the royal decision on bank guarantees silently and without parliamentary debate. I'm still inviting you not to do that again in the future. You can still take advantage of the knowledge in the committee. I hope you'll find a solution soon. Do not lose sight of the fact that, just like an employee, the same applies to the relationship between lender and borrower.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Colleagues, I know it's taking a long time, it's coming to an end, but it's taking a long time. We ask all our residents to persevere, we ask the catering industry to persevere and we ask the event sector and the culture sector to persevere. Well, we're also asking the banks to hold on. As a government, we provide a safety net for the banks through a state guarantee and it is now up to the banks to be a safety net for our entrepreneurs and SMEs. Colleagues, if we want to be one team of 11 million together, the banks are one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u48	Madam President, Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) has been a recommendation of the social movement and of the socialists in particular for almost 25 years. With the support of the progressives and civil society, this idea, today, convinces far beyond these movements. Moreover, we Socialists are very pleased that the government agreement enshrines the TTF as a European priority. Of course, we are and remain very vigilant. There is no question of contenting yourself with postures or frontal positions. As a reminder, the previous government agreement also contained a passage on the TTF. However, it was remembered that this had not prevented Belgium from taking a negative attitude, which had led it to be pointed out several times. Former government finance minister Michel hated the idea of a TTF. He had blocked the debate and, above all, he had tried everything to clear the tax base by wanting, at all costs, to exempt the pension funds. Mr Minister, we will have to be completely in breach of the previous minister's manoeuvres and objectives, which, it must be recalled, rejected the very idea of own resources for the European Union. Belgium must return to an ambitious position, and an ambitious position necessarily includes pension funds. A few days ago, a French MEP said that only Belgium was expected. So let us be very clear! Minister, can you confirm to me that this government is working constructively on a TTF that is as ambitious as possible? Can you make a commitment here not to impose the exclusion of pension funds as a condition, as your predecessor had done? We can't unblock the deal that's on the table. Nor can we play the game of the previous government. The world is changing and the crisis is forcing us to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u49	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. I still do not know where a French member of the European Parliament went to draw the idea that Belgium would oppose the TTF. Last week, I informed the European Union that Belgium would cooperate fully with the introduction of this tax on financial transactions. I immediately corrected this false news with the Belga news agency. Last week, I informed the European Union that our country would cooperate in the introduction of the TTF. That is the exact answer that I gave to Mr Vanbesien's question the day before yesterday in the Committee on Finance. For the benefit of all, let me repeat this once again: during a bilateral meeting with the Portuguese Presidency, I confirmed very explicitly our country's support for moving this issue forward. In the coming weeks, the Portuguese Presidency will also take specific initiatives in which Belgium will participate with a constructive attitude, in line with the government agreement. When I know more about this, you can count on me to inform you in committee. I would be happy to discuss this with you and all colleagues here in Parliament, but not on Twitter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u50	Minister, thank you for this reassuring answer, although we understand that the issue is the integration of pension funds. We have to carry the ambition so far. When the crisis bill arrives, who can oppose new sources of funding for health, for schools, for employment? At a time when we need to finance ambitious recovery plans, we must also show maximum ambition on these matters. Let us push the cursor as far as possible with our European colleagues to come back with a project that meets the expectations of the population!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u51	Madam President, Minister, a year ago we stood here in Parliament with a proposal to make good on the covid vaccine to the public and to ensure that profit logic, monopoly position and patent legislation would not be a brake, once the vaccine was available so that it could be produced and available everywhere. What do we see? We're a year later and it's time. We are entirely dependent on two or three multinationals who decide who can be vaccinated at what price. Those two or three multinationals have more to say than everyone else here in the hemisphere. In recent days, the arrogance of the big pharma has really gotten out of control. Pfizer practised the doses and received an additional three billion euros per year in the pocket. AstraZeneca doesn't honour the contract. Stock's gone and the company just doesn't show up for the meeting. That's just how they do it. They are so arrogant. However, I see, on the other hand, that there is movement. There's a discussion. This morning, we have all read that Mrs Gwendolyn Rutten, just as we are asking that the covid vaccine become an effective public asset. It has proposed that patent legislation should be abandoned, to which others have replied that it is thanks to the free market that the vaccine has been introduced. Who, however, has seen the free market in this respect? What did Pfizer do? It just bought up BioNTech. That's where massive public money has gone. Pfizer and AstraZeneca have taken together over four billion dollars of public money. We also bought the vaccines. What do we see? We take on all the burdens and the profits go to the shareholders. That is the big problem, which causes the vaccine not to become available and not to be produced everywhere. It's gonna cost lives. What will you do so that patent legislation no longer constitutes an obstacle and the covid vaccine can become public good?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u52	Madam President, Minister, if a strategy is to be effective, it must be able to generate support and deliver results. However, we see that membership is crumbling in our population. We talked about it with your Justice and Interior colleagues. Eindhoven is not so far from Brussels! Let us therefore pay attention because a huge fatigue is winning the minds, and not just the younger generations. There is growing doubt about the strategy being implemented. We were told to start vaccinations in early March for a wider audience, the whole public. Finally, it's late March. As for the results, they are also slow to be measured. Approximately 2% of the population is vaccinated at this stage. It is now understood that AstraZeneca vaccine could not be recommended for those over the age of 65, even though it is the elderly who must be given priority vaccination. The European Union has just asked, in the face of doubt, for an inspection of the Belgian plant in AstraZeneca. There is doubt and there is no worse uncertainty than adding a layer of anxiety. It is essential to see clearly what strategy you want to lead. Like others, my colleague, Catherine Fonck, has been arguing for a long time... If you have doubts about her opposition and not always the same experts who have your ear, I invite you to hear also Nathan Clumeck, professor emeritus of the ULB, who pleads for a rapid increase in the rate of first vaccinations by shifting the second dose somewhat in time. The World Health Organization has allowed this by indicating recently that, in emergencies, it is possible to fire up to 42 days, perhaps beyond, but it is not certain. In view of the Belgian situation, why not shift this second dose? According to a recent Australian study, I have just discovered that we are 72 out of 98 in our ability to manage the crisis. CQFD! It is essential to rapidly increase the rate of vaccination. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u53	Madam President, Minister, I was no longer going to ask questions about the coronadebacle, because it always comes down to the same thing. We always have to ask the same questions about the same facts. For you, it may be stalking, but the answers that come out all the time are more bullying behavior. This morning I changed my mind, because there are still good journalists. In the paper I read a good column from a good journalist. The column is about his mother-in-law, Minister. I know mothers-in-law aren't popular, but he has a very popular mother-in-law. Allow me to read a passage: "Miss Huughe is 82. Yesterday's birthday was her birthday, but what's to celebrate as long as she hasn't gotten those two crucial shots that offer her a better spring and a warm summer with her husband, her daughters, her grandsons and her not so ideal sons-in-law around her?" You don't have to write it down, Minister, you'll get the article from me later. "Her peers in residential care centres have now been vaccinated. If she lived in England, she would also have been vaccinated as a resident 80-pluser long ago. She doesn't even know when it's her turn. It may be March, but it may as well be April or May. Our lame government hastens slowly, as if it doesn't stick in a month. It does for her, for my mother-in-law. From now on, an essential woman counts every day." That is the best I can say, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u54	Thank you. Let me first say something about the vaccination campaign, in response to Mr Dedecker's testimony which, I think, is indeed taken out of life. I think a lot of people are waiting and a lot of people are insecure. That's right. We just can't give false assurances. We do not know at this time when this lady will get the two redeeming shots. You don't know, I don't know, which is worse: she doesn't know either. No, we don't know, because we're vaccinate on the rhythm of deliveries. We don't leave any vaccine unintended in a freezer. None. All vaccines we receive are programmed to be used I would like to ask you to understand the seriousness of this organization. Within ten days we start to give a second injection to a lot of people in residential care centres. Within ten days we will put about as many second syringes as new vaccines will come according to the promises we have received. That is a very critical balance. If these deliveries are disappointing, we must immediately delay the delivery of the first syringes. That is the reality of such a campaign in which we do not want to take risks with people and, consequently, cannot make false promises. Of course, this is a question of second dose and timing. I'm not a doctor. I'm not the one who decides. It is not the government that decides this. The government decides, yes, but on the basis of consensus, the majority of the experts consulted, including experts who are active in the vaccination task force. These tell us – and I believe them in good faith as doctors and as experts –: "Do not deviate from what has been planned with regard to Pfizer, namely to have the second dose followed three weeks after the first one! Don't take that risk now!" That's what we do. Of course, there are other doctors who think differently and that's normal. We are following what the majority of experts tell us, in the interests of public health. That is why we do not take the risk that we will have to stop vaccination on a given day because deliveries are not following, something that is now happening in a number of other countries. We are in the middle, we are not among those who have already vaccinated the most, we are not among those who have vaccinated the least. There is a lot of uncertainty that has to do with the attitude of the company AstraZeneca. I fully support the European Commission, which requires clarity from the company. That clarity must be provided in exchange for the hundreds of millions of subsidies, taxpayers' money used to make this production possible. One can understand production difficulties, but one cannot understand a complete lack of transparency. We support the European Commission in this, just as we support the European Commission if it wants to come up with a regulation very quickly that will ensure transparency in the export of vaccines from Europe and control and control of the export from Europe of vaccines intended for the European population. That is absolutely necessary. The AstraZeneca vaccine represents 15% of the deliveries ordered for Europeans. The European Union has ordered three times more vaccines than there are Europeans. That is sensible and it ensures that the risks are spread out. I believe that we should pay tribute to Mrs De Block, the former Minister for Social Affairs and Health, who put Belgium firmly on that European train and who fought in a European context for solidarity and against the extortionists. That was a good decision. This has advantages and disadvantages because we are now also dependent on AstraZeneca. Fortunately, there are also alternatives. This dependence means that today we have uncertainty about the volume and timing of deliveries. I would like to add that there is still no certainty about the useful effect of this vaccine for 65-plussers, the people who are equally dear to us in this campaign. Hopefully we will soon get all the cards on the table. Mrs Merckx, vaccination is indeed a public good. I have given my student economy numerous times the example of vaccination as a public good: the safety of other people is our safety, the safety of people all over the planet is the safety of Europeans. That's absolutely true. This is also why Belgium supports initiatives, some of which are voluntary, for example within the World Health Organisation, which wants to establish a voluntary system of intellectual property sharing and technologies related to the fight against COOVID-19. We also support the European Commission and COVAX to take initiatives to make vaccines available throughout the world. Minister Meryame Kitir is pushing this cart and has already allocated 4 million euros to put something concrete on the table from Belgium as well and to put a dime in the pocket of international solidarity around the vaccines. I suggest that you further question Mrs Kitir about this, because she is working on it and she takes responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u55	Minister, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u56	I'm rounding up. Mrs Merckx, this discussion and the patent debate do not solve the problem we are facing. That problem is one of production difficulties, overoptimism in promises and perhaps overbooking, which would be scandalous. However, it is not a discussion about intellectual property or patents. That is an important discussion, but it does not resolve the immediate burning issues. However, they must be resolved and we will solve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u57	Mr Minister, today many people are waiting for a vaccine: grandmothers and grandpas, teachers, people in third world countries. You say that the rhythm of deliveries is vaccinated, but we actually vaccinate on the rhythm of the profit appetite of big pharma. That is the reality. So I do not agree with you that we should not discuss the patent issue today. Mrs Rutten, an intelligent woman, said that this morning because she sees that there must be a limit to this hunger for profit. If we want to get out of the pandemic, we must now question patent legislation, because the production process is there, the technology is there. Pfizer has a very efficient vaccine. However, this cannot be produced everywhere because Pfizer does not want to share his knowledge and want to make a profit. So we will continue, in Belgium and elsewhere, to stand up for universal access to the vaccine and I would have expected you, a socialist, to be more supportive of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. I fully agree with you when you point out that the decision to board the European train was an excellent decision. In fact, I dare not imagine what this vaccine race would do today if there had not been this European involvement and harmonised approach. We might have known such catastrophic scenarios of tarmac at some airports, as we could have known at the beginning of the crisis with the masks. Yes, it's a good decision. Yes, I think that, through the management of this crisis, and on the part of the deployment of the colossal resources allocated to recovery, the European Union is returning to the gallons. Good for the European convinced that I am. Of course, I'm not doing you the process of delivery rhythms. You have to be on the right side. However, today, you are dependent on it yourself. Anyone in this House, in your place, would be dependent on the pace of delivery, external to government management as such. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u59	Minister, I understand that you can only vaccinate on the rhythm of deliveries, and I also understand that you cannot make false promises, but you have been giving false hope for months. We can count on you to draw up contracts and to comply with them. It is then very easy to pass the debt on to the big pharma. This is also a testament to our own incompetence. Last week we asked here questions about Pfizer, today about AstraZeneca and tomorrow perhaps about Moderna, but they always remain false promises. It is easy to say that it is another's fault, but in the Lowy Institute study, our country is at 72nd place in tackling the corona crisis. I find it very inappropriate to keep knocking on your chest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u60	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u61	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u62	By letter of 26 January 2021, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of 24 January 2021 entitled "Amendment". By letter dated 26 January 2021, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 24 January 2021 entitled "Amendment'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u63	We are now dealing with the request made by Mr. De Roover concerning Bill No. 1696.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u64	Madam President, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to briefly explain the draft law. The draft law was submitted to the Chamber on 14 December and the Chamber agreed to the urgent procedure. This includes the introduction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which should start on 1 March 2021. I myself have been a Member of Parliament long enough to know that Parliament is in a position to ask the Council of State for its opinion, provided that a third of its members support it. I hope, however, that those Members who ask for the opinion of the Council of State have read the amendment. The amendment in question is an answer given by the government to an opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State states that the law must be amended in order to implement the Royal Decree. That is what we are doing with this amendment. I am therefore afraid that the answer to the opposition's question for the opinion of the Council of State is already known. Madam President, in view of the urgent nature of the matter, I would ask you, under the Rules of Procedure, to insist on an urgent opinion from the Council of State in order to respect the timing. In that sense, I am now handing you a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u65	Thank you, Minister. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on the request for an opinion from the Council of State. I propose that the group chairmen give their opinion on the request for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u66	Minister, consultation with the Council of State will be requested with an urgent proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u67	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Creemers, Daniel Senesael, Christophe Bombled, Len Dierick, Jasper Pillen, Kris Verduyckt, Séverine de Laveleye.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u68	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. This is not (Rgt 85, 4) (1687/3) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1687.3) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u69	Madam President, I have agreed with Mrs Dierick that I am responsible for the full report, if only because the circumstances have made Mrs Dierick the author of the motion for a resolution, which complicates matters somewhat. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first outline the procedure. For this motion for a resolution, we started with a proposal from the PVDA Group, tabled in December 2019. On this basis, the committee unanimously decided in May to organise hearings. They then took place in June. In November last year, six political groups tabled a joint proposal. That was added, strangely enough, to the proposal that was already under discussion in January. At the same meeting, the two were separated from each other, with the result that the motion for a resolution we are discussing today was finally discussed. In the introductory statement, Mrs Creemers, as the main applicant, made clear why her proposal was tabled. On the one hand, it believes that both the circular economy and the low carbon society should be used. On the other hand, during the discussion of the above-mentioned proposal, it appeared that there would be no basis for a moratorium, which was the approach of the initial PVDA proposal. As a result, the various groups have taken the floor. The N-VA Group pointed out that indeed a moratorium goes too far, but that it is a good thing that something else should be replaced, even if the pendulum goes in the other direction, because it is very vaguely formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u70	Mr Senesael of the PS referred to the importance of the oceans throughout the story. He also said that the resolution, as tabled by the PVDA, was out of date and that it was therefore important to have a text that would emphasise the coalition agreement. Mr Ravyts said that he could support the text of the resolution before us, but he also expressed a number of reservations. He also referred to the various statements made by the Minister in charge of the North Sea. Mr Bombled has indicated that there is a need for underwater exploration and that it is important to do so through scientific research. Mrs Dierick, co-host of the proposal, pointed out that there are assets for deep-sea mining, but that there are also dangers and that the moratorium goes too far. Mrs Daems then said that she was pleased that the majority had tabled a resolution on the same subject, but she was disappointed with the content. She said she would stand by her own resolution. For Open Vld, Mr Pillen made a statement showing that he disagreed with the moratorium, that this could not be the subject of the new resolution and that the precautionary principle is very important. Mr Verduyckt also referred to this in order to point out that if we continue with deep-sea mining, we need clear rules. He doubts whether it will ever come to an exploration of the seabed under those conditions. After a brief discussion, the committee voted on this and the proposal was adopted by 13 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to discuss this motion for a resolution today in plenary session, after several months of working in committee on two texts, as the rapporteur has pointed out. Deep seabed mining is a relatively little known and yet of great importance. What exactly are we talking about here? It is known that some seabeds are very rich in ores and rare metals and thus attract the lust of different industrial groups. In fact, two million square kilometres are already under contract for exploration by half a dozen industrialists, including Belgian industrialists. Indeed, the Global Sea Mineral Resources subsidiary of the Belgian-sponsored DEME company is already involved in the exploration of an area of 76 000 km2. However, this exploration, which may eventually be an exploitation, poses significant risks in terms of biodiversity and climate. Marine ecosystems are the largest on the planet and provide fundamental ecosystem services to our survival: carbon storage, oxygen production, but also habitat for many species – and I'm moving on. Last June, hearings were held as part of the debate on this resolution. According to experts, including the Deep Sea Conservation Coalition, mining exploration would inevitably lead to a loss of biodiversity and an imbalance in ecosystems. The question is not whether there will be any damage, but rather the measurement of the damage. Indeed, our knowledge of marine ecosystems is still very limited. We do not know to what extent deep-water mining can impact these ecosystems and what chain reactions it can trigger. Among the experts we have heard, many concerned scientists ask us to exercise caution and sound the alarm. Belgium has a role to play. As a blue leader since 2019, our country has an important responsibility to protect the oceans and their biodiversity. Our country supports the 30x30 goal of making 30 per cent of the world's oceans a marine protected area by 2030. In addition, there are numerous international treaties and texts relating to the protection of biodiversity, to which Belgium is a signatory. It is therefore on the basis of these findings and of this basis that we are carrying this motion for a resolution today. First of all, it reminds us that our economy must become circular in order to get out of extractivism. We are aware of the damage to the environment and the workers of the latter form of economy. Extractivism has already caused a great deal of damage, to a great extent irremediable. Today, it is not a question of moving them into the seabed. We often hear the argument that the ecological transition will require hundreds of millions of tons of nickel, cobalt, copper and other rare minerals. We know the pressure is strong. For this reason, a circular company based on recycling and reuse should be supported. I refer you to the following quote from an expert received during our hearings: "Thus, it is possible to transit to a green society by not using natural resources until completely displacing our planet already far too impacted by human activity." With this need recalled, I would like to point out that our motion for a resolution is aimed at making high-seas mining clear. As our rapporteur pointed out, another text had been drafted to request a moratorium, but it could not achieve a strong consensus in this Parliament. The government agreement provides that "scientific research and data collection on deep seabed mining will be further supported. Belgium will ensure compliance with environmental legislation and the precautionary principle by participating in international meetings." In this context, our motion for a resolution calls on the government to deepen scientific research with a view to protecting marine ecosystems. Indeed, reliable data are useful, if not necessary, for a coherent and transparent regulation of deep seabed mining activities. Knowing them better will allow us to protect them better. Finally, our motion for a resolution reminds the government of the need to respect environmental legislation and the precautionary principle in order to preserve the biodiversity of our unique marine ecosystems. As a reminder, the precautionary principle provides that the burden of proof lies with those who support an activity that could have a significant and irreversible impact on either health or the environment. This text therefore includes a call for caution. When serious or irreversible effects of a product on the environment or human health are suspected, it is not necessary to receive absolute scientific certainty to intervene. We must not repeat what we have always done and lead to disastrous consequences for us and our environment. We must protect the biodiversity of ecosystems in general, including the seabed. We therefore look forward to seeing this text come to fruition, with the support of many colleagues. I would like to conclude by thanking the colleagues who supported this text. They show a common concern that is widely shared in this Parliament. We must be able to celebrate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a little unfortunate that the Minister responsible, Mr Van Quickenborne, has disappeared again. If this majority considered its resolution really important and if it voted away Mrs Daems's and colleagues' resolution, perhaps the Minister could have been present. Where is the time when we took Mrs Marghem out of her bed in a sultry summer night at a resolution? A few months after the oath was taken, we, together with the PVDA, put on the agenda, through oral questions to the then competent Minister, Mr De Backer, Belgium's profile as Blue Leader and at the same time possible facilitator of deep-sea mining contracts. This was of course from a different focus and assessment than Mrs Daems. Subsequently, a resolution was tabled by the PVDA for a moratorium on deep-sea mining. During the hearing following this resolution, the Marine Environment Service of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment stated that a "note to evaluate current national legislation with the stakeholder's contribution to the policy cell of the then competent minister" was provided. By the way, at the end of 2019, the Minister responsible had already announced the revision of the legislation in force, following the oral question I raised. Today, this revised legislation is still not in place. It was also explicitly announced in Minister Van Quickenborne's policy paper and policy letter today. This legal exercise must, of course, be carried out in conjunction with the services of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The hearing gave the majority the idea of submitting a resolution itself, of course after the start of this government. It remains curious that the explanatory statement of this resolution by the majority parties does include the need for revised legislation, but not in the requesting part. In any case, it is desirable to review this legislation now, without necessarily waiting for the establishment of an international regulatory framework which can, moreover, be delayed for a while. After all, discussions on the drafting of a Mining Code were still under way last year. The DEME Group of the Bertrand family, good friends of the colleagues of PVDA, which belongs to the fan club of this family, carried out a number of tests, but they have applied a voluntary environmental impact assessment, an assessment that is currently not even prescribed by our national legislation. That is why I am asking you to speed up this legislation and to deal with it in a more urgent manner. Colleague de Laveleye has already disappeared. That is a very strange practice, reading something and then leaving immediately. Flemish interest calls for further support for scientific research and data collection in the field of deep-sea mining, as well as for the continuation of negotiations at international level. In any case, Belgium must advocate compliance with environmental legislation and the precautionary principle. The safeguarding of biodiversity and existing marine ecosystems are also very important to us. We will therefore support this resolution because, fortunately, it is based on the possibility of achieving a balance between economic activity in the light of increasing demand for certain raw materials and the protection of nature. Balance, what a beautiful word, often so lost in this plenary. Deep-sea commercial mining can only be done if there is a strict regulatory network. Mrs Daems, there really are other ways of guaranteeing the protection of ecosystems than a moratorium. By saying in your press release, 'deepsea mining serves only the interests of some multinationals', we will really not get there. Moreover, your attitude shows little confidence in innovation and technology, which enable a balance to be struck between the economy and the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. We shall therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution, co-signed by my group, is perfectly consistent with the Government's desire to strike a balance between economic activities on the one hand and environmental protection on the other. For my political group, underwater exploration is only in its infancy. It is essential to continue investing in scientific research, to provide resources to meet ambitions and to establish a clear regulatory framework. In fact, underwater extraction will significantly reduce the damage caused today by land extraction. We note that there is an international movement under the auspices of the International Seabed Authority to adopt a mining code that includes aspects of environmental law and seeks to ensure environmental protection. The Reform Movement does not support the path of establishing a moratorium, proposed by the PTB Group, because this proposal closes many doors and would have adverse consequences for our country and its scientists. During last year's hearings in the Committee on Energy and Climate, several speakers stressed that a moratorium on seabed mining was not the right way to achieve better protection of the seabed. Our country currently playing a leading role in international negotiations, the adoption of such a moratorium would lead to the withdrawal of this negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, for these various reasons, my group will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I did not know much about deep-sea mining. Thanks to the hearings, we have not been able to go into the subject of deep-sea mining literally but figuratively. During the hearings we heard that there are not only economic assets for the future, such as the extraction of raw materials for sustainable applications. Unfortunately, the potential risks to the marine ecosystem have also been highlighted. Deep sea mining is still at an experimental, exploratory stage worldwide. The hearings also showed that scientists are still in full discovery of the deep-sea areas. Many organisms are new. We do not yet know what is alive, nor do we know what is threatened by extinction. In other words, there is still a great deal of knowledge to be gathered. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore important that scientific research be continued. This is how we learn more. That is why we consider it very important that Belgium should remain at the table so that we can continue to play our leading role. We want to keep weighing up policy. We can do that best by staying at the table at international level. Following the hearings, as mentioned by Mr Wollants in the report, the text of the resolution was thoroughly adapted to the comments and additional information from the hearings. We call very explicitly on the government to continue to support basic scientific research and data collection in the field of deep-sea mining and to continue to respect environmental legislation and the precautionary principle when drawing up possible operating rules. Thanks to the thorough adjustments and additions, we can agree to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u75	Madam President, as Mr Wollants has just pointed out, I am indeed very pleased that the majority has taken the trouble to submit their own resolution on deep-sea mining, albeit in response to our proposal on this subject. It means that the majority parties recognise the importance of the subject and the role that Belgium plays in the development of commercial deep-sea mining. Deep-sea mining is a new emerging industry that will be devastating to the fragile ecosystems of the deep-sea and will permanently and irreparable damage the deep-sea floor. Thanks to an initiative by my group, the subject is on the agenda today. On the initiative of the PVDA, a hearing on deep-sea mining was held shortly after the summer with international experts and scientists who belong to the top of their field. I would briefly like to mention the main points raised in that hearing. First of all, the deep sea contains a very diverse wealth of fauna and flora. Hundreds of new species are still being discovered in each deep-sea research mission. Contrary to what was previously thought, the deep sea is a very vulnerable habitat with very unique and special life forms. This demonstrates the importance of additional scientific research, because our current knowledge of the deep sea is still limited. Since we don't know many things yet, there are also many uncertainties about the impact of deep-sea mining. The first indications are that deep-sea mining will be devastating. The scientists in the hearing were very clear: biodiversity loss will be inevitable and the damage to the ecosystem would be permanent on human time scales. Proposals for compensation in the case of deep-sea mining are therefore scientifically meaningless, according to the speakers. If deep-sea mining eliminates or mines nodules or manganese nodules from the seabed, the ecosystem disappears. It could also take years to decades before some of the sediment plumes, created by exploitation, have descended. The conclusion of the hearing was therefore very clear: touching the ocean floor causes irreparable and permanent damage to the deep-sea ecosystems. That is why, with the PVDA, we are calling for a moratorium on commercial deep-sea mining. Among these we understand a temporary ban on the granting of commercial operating licences. We're not alone in that. Two years ago, the European Parliament called for a ban on deep-sea mining, for scientists to better understand the environmental impacts and the risks of disruption of the unique deep-sea ecosystems. Similar calls for a moratorium were also recently made by the Deep Sea Conservation Coalition, a coalition of over seventy NGOs, including Seas at Risk, Greenpeace International, WWF International and also the Deep Sea Mining Campaign, a coalition of NGOs around the Pacific. The fisheries sector is also concerned about the impact of deep-sea mining on fish stocks. The European Fisheries and International Water Stakeholder Forum, the Long Distance Advisory Council, has also published a strong call for a moratorium. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the majority itself is now putting forward a motion for a resolution was initially very positive. As I said earlier, this underlines the importance of deep-sea mining. We are therefore pleased that the subject is on the agenda thanks to us. However, after reading the motion for a resolution, I am disappointed with the content, or rather the lack of content. The only element of content is actually the request to continue supporting basic scientific research. That request was already part of our motion for a resolution; we have repeatedly stressed the importance of further fundamental scientific research. I am therefore pleased that the majority has accepted this proposal. All the experts we heard during the hearings also pointed to the uncertainties and lack of knowledge about the deep sea. These provisions were already in the coalition agreement. So that is an important point, but there is really not much news under the sun. The second request in the text is meaningless. It calls for environmental legislation and the precautionary principle to be respected when drawing up possible operating rules on deep-sea mining, but this is simply an obligation under European law. In the present proposal, therefore, the majority parties are asking the government to comply with existing European legislation. Allow me to find that remarkable. The majority only revolves around the hot stuff, because the real question is, of course, what the government will do to respect the precautionary principle. Given the inevitable risks of deep-sea mining, will the government support applications for commercial mining, provided, of course, that deep-sea mining is carried out as carefully as possible, or will the government not support such an application? In their text, the majority of parties write that scientists agree that there is still insufficient scientific knowledge of the biological diversity of the deep-sea, the impact of deep-sea mining on the ecosystem and the ecological regeneration potential of the deep-sea to take informed exploitation decisions. Does that mean that the majority agree that there can be no commercial deep-sea mining at present, provided that the strict application of the precautionary principle, as there is still insufficient knowledge and deep-sea mining, according to the current indications, can lead, in their own words, to significant and irreversible damage to ecosystems? I asked that question in committee, but I did not receive an answer. The PVDA will continue to insist on the strict application of the precautionary principle. There can be no commercial deep-sea mining for us at present. We believe that the motion for a resolution is a weakness of the majority in order to avoid this thorny issue. The text offers little added value and hardly helps us forward in the discussion. That is why we will abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution aims to preserve and protect marine ecosystems from possible exploitation. The objective is clear: to safeguard the unique and diverse fauna and flora that these maritime areas harbour. Indeed, in the light of the crucial importance of ecosystems, in the light of the many unknowns that will persist after scientific research, it is just inconceivable today, under the precautionary principle, to damage environments that are so vital to our planet but also to future generations. We know that the interconnection of ecosystems means that changes made at one level have an impact on all others. Therefore, do we really want to change the dynamics of an environment that produces between 50% and 75% of the oxygen we breathe? Do we really want to further undermine a system that stabilizes our climate? The IPCC report in 2019 confirms the leading role of oceans in climate change. They play the role of carbon sinks absorbing a huge share of greenhouse gas emissions. We are also aware of the disastrous impact that rising sea levels and oceans could have on populations living in islands or coastal areas. The United Nations itself recognizes the deep seabed as a common heritage that must be treated with utmost caution. In the end, nothing seems more imprudent than to allow the exploitation of the deep seabed. To deregulate even more than it is already a balance that has taken hundreds of thousands of years to establish itself can only be harmful and must simply be proscribed. Seas and oceans are already affected by rising temperatures, decreasing and redistributing underwater species, destruction of corals and acidification of waters. We cannot participate, in addition to all this, and that is also in full knowledge, since we have had enlightening hearings on this subject in committee, in the destruction of the deep seabed. If Belgium really wants to be the blue leader in the protection of the oceans, it must first stop sponsoring the subsidiary of the Belgian commercial company DEME – Global Sea Mineral Resources – which has eyes only for the wealth buried in an area of the Pacific Ocean that is two and a half times the size of Belgium. As Greenpeace denounces in particular, this sponsorship is completely contradictory to the 30x30 goal supported by our country, which aims to make 30% of the world's oceans a protected maritime area by 2030. What do we do with the other 70%? The Greenpeace report, In deep water: the emerging threat of deep sea mining, recalls that deep-sea drilling poses a threat to marine ecosystems and to global warming. The report also stresses that the international seabed authority is unable to preserve the oceans from the consequences of this drilling. Of course, I hear the growing demand for raw materials and primary minerals, but there are other solutions to meet these needs. We have repeatedly proven that we can be creative when we face major challenges for our future. I therefore regret that the proposal does not require the government to put in place a strict moratorium on mining on the high seas, whether in Belgium or abroad. In conclusion, however, our group will vote in favour of this proposal because any initiative to preserve and protect the seabed should be supported, but our support for it remains a warning. Yes, support scientific research and data collection on marine ecosystems! Yes, let's put an end to mining-related initiatives and partnerships! At the same time, however, remain vigilant about compliance with environmental legislation but also with the precautionary principle! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u77	Madam President, I will be very brief, rest assured, since reading the text of the motion for a resolution is sufficient for itself to be convinced both of the ambition, which remains marked in the drafting of this text, and of the support that we intend to give to it. But given the importance of the oceans and their ecosystem to the future of the planet, it seems to me that a few words were necessary, particularly in order to welcome the adoption of this resolution, even if it is modest in its purpose, since it is important to ensure that the exploitation of the deep seabed, which is difficult to avoid on a global scale, will be and must be environmentally friendly. It is an issue for the future of humanity, let us not be afraid of words! That is why we will give our modest but resolute support to this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u78	Madam President, I assure you, I will be brief. But I would like to speak because I am very proud of the work done by my colleagues and, in particular, by Barbara Creemers and Séverine de Laveleye. It is important to recall that the seabed is not simply an unknown area; it is an area protected by international law and the law of the sea. It is an area that is recognized as a world heritage of humanity. That is why our Assembly is called upon to affirm the important role that our country can play in protecting these seabeds from the temptation to destroy them in order to constantly extract more resources, more and more raw materials. In my view, the motion for a resolution under consideration is in the right direction. It aims to remind us that it is not by continuing the unbridled course of raw materials and extraction that we will succeed in the energy transition. On the contrary, we will achieve this by supporting the circular economy and recycling initiatives. In conclusion, I would like to recall the double call for prudence in this text: firstly, the call for more fundamental research, because better knowledge of the seabed will enable us to better protect them; secondly, the precautionary principle which is solemnly referred to in this resolution. It is important to give maximum support to this text in order to make Belgium a fully-fledged blue leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u79	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u80	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Senesael, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1363.3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1363/3) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law to harmonize the procedure for driving offences under the application of the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative penalties". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal to harmonise the procedure on traffic offences within the scope of the Law of 24 June 2013 on municipal administrative sanctions'. The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u85	Madam President, I would like to refer to the written report for the original report of the text that came into plenary last week. For the additional work carried out yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I would like to present this oral report. Yesterday Mr Prévot presented the 15 amendments on this subject. Amendments Nos. 1 and No. 2 concern the extension of the arrangements for the postponement of consumer loans and mortgage loans. There are also a number of amendments which have an impact on the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, as well as other amendments, which are often the result of opinions from the Council of State and the like. Ladies and gentlemen, in the general discussion, Mrs Van Bossuyt pointed out that the amendments put back by the plenary were anything but innocent. It can certainly agree to the extension of the moratorium, as the conditions remain the same. In addition, she said that there are some amendments that she has questions about. Why didn't they get any advice on this? She also had reservations about the way she works. It also referred to a number of other amendments, such as Amendment No. 3, which says that the King may determine the conditions under which insurers may be exempted from the obligation to issue the insurance certificate to the policy holder. What is the logic behind this amendment? It also referred to Amendment No. 5 that fits in with the fight against non-insurance. Why does this change of law come into this bill? Does this mean that the police have not so far had access to the register, which has been in existence since 2002? She asked that an opinion be sought from the Data Protection Authority. Mr Van Lommel said he was in favour of Amendments Nos. 1 and 2 on the moratorium or deferment of payments for consumer credits, but felt that the scheme would be far too late, since the previous moratorium expires on 1 February. He also asked the Minister whether it was indeed true that banks very often discourage consumers from asking for a postponement. He also expected an evaluation of the first moratorium before proceeding with an extension. He also had questions about the insurance part. He said he understood that there is maximum use of digitalisation, but asked questions for the future, for example what a motorist should do in the event of an accident, when it will no longer be mandatory for insurance companies to deliver an insurance document. Mr D'Amico of the PTB was satisfied with the measures relating to the postponement of the appropriations, but he would have preferred to see a wider scope and also that interest would not have to be reimbursed. He understood the usefulness of Amendment No. 3 doesn't. In the case of Amendment No. 5 he felt that we should rather ask ourselves why people can't insure their vehicles. He also asked for advice from the Data Protection Authority. He also feared an impact on agriculture, forestry and the construction sector. Mr Maxime Prévot was able to support most of the amendments, which he felt seemed to be of an objective technical nature and did not deviate from the debate we had in committee a few weeks earlier. The Minister considered that these were fundamental amendments, but also some technical amendments inspired by a number of exchanges with the Council of State. Mr Patrick Prévot confirmed the lateness of the amendments. 1 and 2 on the moratoriums. He said that this is mainly due to the long negotiations with Febelfin and the European Banking Authority. Mrs Van Bossuyt said that, since the system for delaying payment is urgent for the consumer, Amendments Nos. 1 and 2 can be treated further, but must be disconnected from the rest. To some extent, Mr Van Lommel also understood the delay that was caused, but felt that action was taken too late and also referred to the urgent work that took place in committee last week on the postponement of the solders. The parties voting in favour of the name vote were Ecolo-Groen, the PS, the MR, CD&V, Open Vld and sp.a. The N-VA, Flemish Interest and the PVDA abstained. Mrs Van Bossuyt asked for a second reading prior to the vote on the name. The President has repeated that this is impossible for amendments forwarded from the plenary. He referred to a note from the Legal Service which was ultimately delivered to the members of the committee. Mrs Van Bossuyt then also contested the admissibility of the amendments on the basis of Article 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u86	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Van Lommel for his comprehensive report. Colleagues, yesterday we witnessed a strange state of affairs in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The point we are going to vote on today was originally taken last week in plenary but was suddenly taken off the agenda. Afterwards, however, it became clear why this happened, and the majority had tabled a whole series of amendments. Mr Van Lommel already described three types of amendments, rather technical amendments, a series of amendments on consumer and mortgage credit and a series of amendments on motor vehicle liability insurance. So there were some amendments to the content that had nothing to do with technicality. The amendments on consumer and mortgage credit could have been foreseen. The possibility of postponement lasted until 31 January this year, until Sunday, and an extension was requested for that purpose. Minister Dermagne stated that this was so late because different opinions had to be sought. We fully understand that, and we want to approve these amendments so that consumers do not get into trouble. We saw a number of problems in the amendments on motor vehicle liability insurance. It was specifically the amendment which states that additional bodies will have access to the insurance register, which will keep track of who is insured or not. Personal data are processed in this register and there is clear European legislation on the consultation of such data. It is therefore necessary to seek the necessary advice. We stated in committee that it was important to obtain this opinion, since it concerns the fundamental rights of citizens. I was surprised when I heard the Minister's answer. He agreed with me and admitted that this was indeed the case. He also gave advice to seek advice. Nevertheless, we had to vote on the draft yesterday in committee. We already knew that the government often takes a stroll in adapting the fundamental rights of our citizens. We now see the same thing with the corona crisis. Decisions are taken on the basis of ministerial decisions. Apparently, there's no need for a pandemic bill. Here, however, the government goes even further. It even decides matters, without taking the necessary advice, which is nevertheless required by law. The government is also aware of this fact. That will happen afterwards or in the execution through the royal decrees. Our group does not want to take that responsibility. That is why yesterday in committee we made a constructive proposal to separate the amendments on consumer credit from the rest. In this way, nobody gets into trouble and we can adopt legislation which is in accordance with the rules in force and does not unnecessarily affect the fundamental rights of our citizens. However, the majority had no ears for our proposal. Nor have we received any logical explanation for this refusal. When we then asked for a second reading, reference was made to a note from the Legal Service. So it was a very strange thing to do. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments in plenary today which mean that the series of amendments relating to motor vehicle liability insurance will not be put to the vote today, so that the necessary opinions can be requested for those amendments and we will be here to adopt legislation which is in line with current, inter alia, European legislation. After all, it is important for a legislative assembly to adopt laws that are in line with the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u87	Madam Chair, indeed, this bill and the proposed amendments were somewhat animated yesterday in committee. I am not going back to what happened in the committee, but I want to go back to the substance and the amendments that concern us. This is a very important bill, especially for my political group. It contains various amendments to the law on economic policy. I'll come back. For us Socialists, it was first and foremost essential to be able to extend the moratorium on consumer credits. This was indeed a measure that required urgency because the first moratorium would end on 31 January 2021 and it was necessary to be able to directly vote on the principle of this second moratorium with a beginning of it, on 1 February 2021, in order to avoid a period of latency. This measure is extremely important for our citizens, especially those whose purchasing power continues to be affected by this health crisis. I recall the cascading consequences that can be put in place when the consumer no longer manages to pay, in part or in total, two monthly payments. First, there is a formal notice and if within 30 days the borrower cannot repay all the arrears and the amount of the following monthly payment, then the lender is obliged to denounce the credit. And so we get into the hassles because the consequences of this denunciation are obviously serious. The borrower's accounts are blocked for everything that's exceeded. Costs, penalties, interest on late payments are applied, which is obviously a double penalty for those who are already struggling to repay this credit. The borrower is also registered with the National Bank of Belgium. In addition, it is possible, by simple registered letter, to make assignments of granted receivables. This is done automatically. All you have to do is send a letter to the unemployment fund or the employer. Finally, it is also possible to activate retention-of-title clauses. These are all cascading consequences with a real major risk that the Corona crisis brings to the spiral of over-indebtedness the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable and those who have financial difficulties exacerbated by this crisis. It was extremely important, I would even say, indispensable, with this bill, to allow the extension of this moratorium on consumer credits. This had to be done, and the minister reminded him in committee, in consultation with the banking sector, with Febelfin, all of this under the supervision of the European Banking Authority, which already imposes a very strict framework. It is then understandable that, in view of all these elements, the discussions took time and that some will say "lately". As a positive person, I would tend to say "just in time" to allow the extension of this second moratorium, the first one coming to an end on January 31, 2021. For the rest, this bill contains various provisions. It is not surprising to find various provisions on economic matters. Some provisions concern the right to competition, consumer information on payment services, the functioning of the new Institute of Tax Advisers and Accountants. I won't go into all the details. That has been said in the report, 15 amendments have been tabled at times technical, sometimes corrective, sometimes presenting real added value for citizens. I don't understand the malice that some people blame us. Indeed, we welcome the impetus that is being given in the area of car RC insurance. I would like to recall what we are talking about with this car RC insurance and justify the urgency defended by the minister in committee. The legal framework, which is proposed today by these amendments, is indispensable and even urgent. Why? Because, of course, it is necessary to allow our police services, in particular, to have access as quickly as possible to the registers that cross the data of the IVD and the insurers. If we want to implement this pilot phase, we need a legal framework. The latter will take effect with the vote on these amendments, which will respond to the need and desire to digitise the proof of insurance in order to enable the police services to monitor the insurance situation 24 hours, 7 days. That seems indispensable to us. This digitalization would eliminate the need for paper documents in the future, some of which do not always have, and could allow for optimal 24/7 control. However, I would like to point out that in 2020, there was an average of every 90 minutes an accident caused by a vehicle in default of insurance. It is a very challenging figure and, in my view, it fully justifies the urgency and the need to set a framework. Indeed, the aim of these amendments is to be able to better control in the future whether a vehicle is properly insured or not, by giving the police service the opportunity to check, without even using paper checks, whether a vehicle is insured or not and only that information. This should reassure those who are asking questions. I told you, too, I'm very sensitive to respect for private data. The questions that will be asked are those that make it possible to determine whether the vehicle is well insured. No other data will be collected. I believe that the Minister has shown a very good openness by expressing very, very clear willingness to submit to the Data Protection Authority all the provisions that have, will have, or could have an impact on personal data. He even said in his second speech that he agreed to question his administration in order to complete that information. I still have the impression that, in relation to this problem, the beacons have been removed and that they are sufficient to reassure those who may fear deficiencies or problems at the level of the GDPR. Here, these are very, very strict and circumscribed data that will be requested. I will not go further on these amendments. I would like to thank colleagues for the quality of the debate, although we have not always agreed. I also thank the PTB, which was very constructive and supported the majority of the amendments and Mr Maxime Prévot, who also supported the amendments and understood, perhaps even before the day's explanation, the urgency of their adoption and the reason for today's vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u88	Madam President, as mentioned earlier, we had no problem with the initial text, as it would have been presented to this plenary last week, all the more so because it concerns a number of various provisions which are quite logical and to which a decent debate has been devoted in committee. Last week, at the Conference of Presidents, a number of amendments were asked to be sent from the plenary to the committee, but at that time, of course, it was not known what their content was. Apparently, no one knew him. Allow me to say that I was mainly disappointed in the way in which I worked, but also in yesterday's debate. Mr Prévot says they were qualitative debates, but I did not think they were very elegant at some point. With regard to the postponement of consumer credits due to expire on 31 January, we adopted the law on that first moratorium in May 2020 and we already knew that that law would expire on 31 January 2021. We fully understand that consultation with the banking sector and the European authorities requires time and that this is an argument to say that we could put it on the agenda much later. I still believe that this has started too late. We all knew that COOVID-19 would have had an impact on consumers for some time to come, so you should have started that consultation much earlier. In addition, I had a feeling of déjà vu in that regard, because it is the second time in two weeks that we in this House still have to vote quickly on an extension of some things. The second reason why I was disappointed in the procedure is the hidden way in which a number of amendments had been added. These arguments, after all, have a greater scope than one would initially think and are, in our view, less urgent than one would suggest. A sound and important debate is necessary for this and we must be able to ask for the necessary opinions. It concerns in particular the new provisions of the law on compulsory insurance for motor vehicles. The fact that insurance documents are no longer delivered raises a lot of questions for us, as I made clear in committee. We fully understand digitalisation, but it is about documents that belong in a car. What should happen in the event of an accident? I think there's gonna be trouble. Before we find new databases or collect data in other places where databases already exist, I think we should have the courage to have a proper debate on this, which I do not think has happened. However, I can understand a number of other additional provisions introduced by amendments because they are based on the opinions of the Council of State. We also supported the two amendments on the extension of the moratorium on consumer credits in committee, because we believe that this is necessary from a social point of view for all those affected by the loss of income caused by the whole of the coronation. By the way, in May 2020 and yesterday in the committee, we took a similar vote. That is why we had called for these two amendments to be decoupled from the rest. For these two amendments, we can accept the urgent need to add them to the draft law. Anyone who knows me knows that I always seek a balance and that I always work constructively and thoughtfully. I want to be flexible where it can be done, and I also understand the difficult situation in which we live today. However, I can only hope that hasty votes and discussions will be a thing of the past. Many times in Parliament there has been talk of a new political culture, but if this political culture is to mean that we have to deal with draft laws in the committee every time, without a proper debate, I will have to do so. I do not accept that colleagues dare to say to me at such a time that I have chosen the wrong job. I want to work for qualitative debates and quality legislation. That must be the reason for our parliamentary work. Having regard to the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, 3 and 6 which are not disconnected in committee, but where we have a lot of questions and on which we believe we need to debate much further, we will abstain in the vote on the entire draft law. I would like to make it quite clear that the amendments Nos. 1 and 2 are of course very important and necessary to us. If you had implemented this decoupling, we would of course have supported this draft law in its entirety today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u89	Madam President, I will not go back to Vivaldi's working method, nor to Article 21, which concerns the accessibility of insurance data. My comrade Nabil Boukili will do it right after. But I still wanted to go back to two points in the bill. Firstly, with regard to the temporary postponement of the repayment of certain loans and credits for those suffering from the crisis, we believe that this is a step in the right direction. It is, in our view, indispensable to the exceptional context that we are currently going through. This is a good thing, even if of course we could always go further to make sure we don't leave anyone at the side of the road, in the words of the government. My second point concerns Article 21, which establishes the obligation for owners of construction, forestry or agricultural machinery of less than 25 km/h and which are likely to use the public road, to enter into RC insurance. What do we see here? First of all, following our questions to Minister Dermagne, we learned that no impact assessment had been made to assess the cost of this provision for sectors already weakened by the crisis. As a result, in the absence of a costed impact assessment, we concluded that the minister had surely consulted all the stakeholders involved in this measure. This seemed logical to us. We asked the minister again about this. What sectors have been consulted? The construction sector, the agricultural sector? No! The insurance sector, according to the Minister! This means that we are dealing here with a provision that will increase the costs of the sector, which is not doing particularly well. The minister, on the other hand, decides only to consult with the sector that will be the big winner of this provision, namely insurers. I wonder, because it is the second provision of the bill that is in line with the insurance sector. Who really is behind these measures? What prompts you to take urgent action in this area? Why didn't you consult the sectors that are going to suffer? I'm not going to lie to you: all this seems very opaque to me. Then, in the answers you gave in committee, there was one that made us somewhat puzzled. When asked what costs your measures would cost the sectors concerned, you said: "Not much! The owners of these devices must already insure them for other reasons. Therefore, we simply impose on them a kind of insurance that is complementary to the insurance that already exists." I confess that this answer did not convince us. In fact, we decided to contact certain professional federations, particularly in the agricultural sector, which told us that the new obligation would increase their costs. Minister, I would like to ask you again: why not make an impact assessment on this matter? Why not estimate the actual cost of your measures for the affected sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us speak little, but let us speak well. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, let us take a good account: it seems to us that the proposed measures are in the right direction. We will support them, since they are aimed at relieving borrowers in financial difficulties, because of the crisis of the co-vid, by allowing them to carry forward the charges related to their borrowings. Of course, that is an objective that we agree with. As for form, the method employed by the majority, in the present case, of tabling amendments which have not been submitted to the Council of State, cannot give rise to the enthusiasm of the opposition. It won't be a big surprise. The process thus inspires us a great scepticism. For some reason, the government delayed, before resorting to the urgency to circumvent the rules – at the risk of being confronted with legal difficulties. Consultation with the Data Protection Authority, in particular to ensure that there is no data protection problem, seems to us to be a logical step. We can therefore subscribe to it. However, our intention is not to delay the adoption of this text, whose objectives we share. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u91	Madam President, I will not be long because I agree with my colleague Roberto D'Amico. However, I would like to speak about the method and the various amendments that have been tabled by the government. As far as the method is concerned, we have been told that these amendments have a technical scope. This is indeed the case for some of them. Others, however, are anything but technical and call for a parliamentary debate. I am thinking in particular of Amendment No 5, which aims to create Article 21, which gives access to the insurance register to the police. This text brings together various measures that we support. This applies, for example, to the measure to extend the moratorium on consumer credits. Of course, it is not the PTB that will delay the vote on this measure. One can imagine the social catastrophe that could result from the non-extension of this moratorium. As Mr Prévot pointed out, the PTB was constructive in the discussions. On the other hand, this has not been the case with the government. He has tabled amendments, in particular Amendment No 5, which is intended to give access to the insurance register to the police, as I have just said. This amendment is already included in Belgian law and in the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This amendment must therefore be submitted to the Data Protection Authority for its opinion because it deals with personal and private data. In this regard, the government's approach has failed to be transparent and honest. Indeed, these amendments are not just technical; they bring added value. In addition, he is stabbing Parliament under the throat by associating the amendment, the question of which, with a text on a social emergency that cannot be voted on today. It is a method that undermines democracy and parliamentary work, which is deplorable. That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete Article 21 in order to be able to conduct a calm debate and vote on the text which aims to extend the moratorium on consumer credits. This is a social emergency, whereas there is no urgency for Article 21 since the GDPR and Belgian law require the government to seek the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. I do not understand that the government can move beyond our legislation. I therefore call on colleagues, members of the government and Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the amendment of the PTB which aims to delete this Article 21 because there is no urgency and no link between the two measures. This method undermines parliamentary work and is unacceptable to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u92	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u93	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1515/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1515/6) The bill has 35 articles. The draft law has 35 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u94	17 Anneleen Van Bossuyt (1515/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u95	· 18 Anneleen Van Bossuyt (1515/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u96	· 16 – Nabil Boukili cs (1515/7) · 19 years Anneleen Van Bossuyt (1515/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u97	· 20 years Anneleen Van Bossuyt (1515/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vanbesien, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u100	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1673/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1673/6) The bill has 35 articles. The draft law has 35 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u102	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 December 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 18 December 2020 for the term of first alternate of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 December 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 December 2020 for the mandate of the first alternate of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee of Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr. David Stans, attached to the province of Liège; lecturer at the University of Liège - Mr Thierry Wertz, adviser to the Brussels Court of Appeal. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr David Stans, attaché to the province of Liège; maître de Conférence at the University of Liège - Mr Thierry Wertz, counsel in the Brussels appeal court. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, I propose that you declare Mr David Stans' candidacy inadmissible and transmit Mr Thierry Wertz's curriculum vitae to the political groups. The Special Committee on Parliamentary Accompanying the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold a hearing with Mr Thierry Wertz as soon as he is in possession of the extension of his security clearance. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, I propose that Mr David Stans' candidacy be declared inadmissible and that the curriculum vitae of Mr Thierry Wertz be sent to the political groups. As soon as Mr Thierry Wertz has the extension of his security clearance, he will be heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u103	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 3 December 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 14 December 2020 for the renewal of half of the terms of office of the non-notary members of the Nomination Commissions for the notariat. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 December 2020, a call to candidates for the renewal of half of the mandates of non-notaries members of the Notarial Appointment Committees was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 14 December 2020. The following mandates must be renewed: Effective members: - two professors/law students (1 F + 1 N) - two external members (1 F + 1 N) Alternate members: - two judges (1 F + 1 N) - two external members (1 F + 1 N). The following mandates should be renewed: Working members: - two professors/teachers in law (1 N + 1 F) - two external members (1 N + 1 F) Deputy members: - two magistrates (1 N + 1 F) - two external members (1 N + 1 F). The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u104	Professor/Law Lecturer - Mr. Damien Jans, lecturer at UCLouvain External members - Mrs. Catherine Halluent, lawyer at the Walloon Brabant Bar - Mr. Axel Kittel, Judge of the Court of First Instance of Eupen - Ms. Stephanie Mees, first auditor at the Supreme Council of Justice
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u105	Professor/Law Lecturer - Mr. Tim Wuyts, Professor at Hasselt University External members - Ms. Ilse Cardoen, justice of the peace of the Canton Ninove - Mr Bernard Derveaux, lawyer at the Brussels Bar - Mr. Filip Hellemans, Team Leader at SBB Accountants & Advisers Alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u106	Professor/Law Lecturer - Mr. Bart Van Den Bergh, Counsellor at Antwerp Court of Appeal External members - Mr Bernard Derveaux, lawyer at the Brussels Bar - Mr. Filip Hellemans, Team Leader at SBB Accountants & Advisers. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Working members:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u107	Professor/doctor in law - Mr Damien Jans, Professor at the UCLouvain External members - Mrs Catherine Halluent, attorney at the Walloon Brabant Bar - Mr Axel Kittel, judge at the Eupen Court of First Instance - Ms Stéphanie Mees, First Auditor at the Supreme Court of Justice
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u108	Professor/doctor in law - Mr Tim Wuyts, lecturer at Hasselt University External members - Mrs Ilse Cardoen, Justice of the Peace Canton of Ninove - Mr Bernard Derveaux, attorney at the Brussels Bar - Mr Filip Hellemans, team leader at SBB Accountants & Advisors Deputy members:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u109	Professor/doctor in law - Mr Bart Van Den Bergh, Councillor at the Antwerp appeal court External members - Mr Bernard Derveaux, attorney at the Brussels Bar - Mr Filip Hellemans, team leader at SBB Accountants & Advisors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, I propose that you declare the candidature of Mrs Ilse Cardoen inadmissible and that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the terms of office of alternate French-speaking members (category "magistrate" and "external member") of the Commissions of appointment for the notariat. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, I propose that Mrs Ilse Cardoen's candidacy be dismissed as inadmissible and that a new call be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of French-speaking Deputy Member (categories "magistraat' and "external member') of the Notarial Appointment Committees. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u110	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Colleagues, we're going to suspend for five minutes to prepare the voting machines for the name vote. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u111	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u112	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 20 January 2021. The interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 20 January 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 76/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 76/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u113	Madam President, I understood that Mrs Bury would give an explanation of vote. Mrs. Bury's on her way. I just contacted her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u114	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u115	Yes 82 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. (Ms Nadia Mosufo voted as her group did in favour of votes 1, 2 and 3)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u116	This inquiry was developed in plenary session on 21 January 2021. The interview was held in the plenary session of 21 January 2021. Two motions were tabled: - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gilles Vanden Burre, Servais Verherstraeten et Mme Melissa Depraetere . Two motions were tabled: - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last week the Vivaldi government seemed to have a problem with the urgency of the forthcoming vote. In any case, it is urgent for those who will bear the consequences of Belgium's attitude at the request of the People's Republic of China, which does so worldwide in order to achieve only one objective, namely to increase the grip on political dissidents and to legitimise the interpretation of China's practice of international law. Ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely what the authoritarian Communist regime is about. The government goes along with that logic for God knows what reason. The government with Greens and Socialists, who are always full of respect for human rights and respect for democracy, looks away when the Communist regime pursues a policy of repression towards minorities. It looks away when it comes to the rights of Uighurs, the rights of Tibetans, the rights of supporters of Falun Gong, who often suffer the consequences of forced organ extractions. It looks away when it comes to the application of the National Security Act for Hong Kong, which was adopted last year by the Chinese People's Congress and which seriously bans democracy in Hong Kong. So the government is also looking away when China is flagrantly violating its national and international obligations. We do not want to look away, ladies and gentlemen, and fortunately we are not alone in this. The Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with the People's Republic of China of the European Parliament also calls for the extradition treaty to be reviewed, if not suspended. The government still has so many screens with the built-in security clauses and guarantees, and every sensible person knows that China will interpret every condition in this respect in its own right and will, if necessary, try to achieve its goal for a false reason. The Chinese regime knows all the loopholes in this matter, and make no illusions about that. Moreover, the possibility of monitoring the Belgian Government after extradition is nil. So you don't have any tools in your hands to watch over the proper way things are going. That is why, Madam President, we are tabling a motion of recommendation calling for a halt to naivety and a fundamental and strategic review of our relationship with China. We therefore call for the extradition treaty with China to be suspended or stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u118	Madam President, I would just like to point out that Mr D'Amico has failed to connect. It must be stated in the PV that he will not be able to vote. For all the texts, he would therefore vote like the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u119	He must make efforts to connect. That's the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u120	Madam Chair, he wanted to log in and it's closed for the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u121	I am told that this should not normally happen. The services tell me that it is always possible to log in during the voting. It is even strongly recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u122	I will therefore ask him to continue his efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u123	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u124	Yes 107 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u126	Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1687/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1687/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u128	Yes 127 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1363/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1363/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u129	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to omit Article 19. (1515/7) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to delete Article 19. (1515/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u130	Yes 59 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to omit Article 20. (1515/7) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to delete Article 20. (1515/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Is it possible to consider that the Is the result of the previous vote valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u131	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Nabil Boukili cs to omit Article 21. (1515/7) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Nabil Boukili cs to delete Article 21. (1515/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Is it possible to consider that the Is the result of the previous vote valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u132	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to omit Article 21. (1515/7) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to delete Article 21. (1515/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Is it possible to consider that the Is the result of the previous vote valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u133	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to omit Article 22. (1515/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt to delete Article 22. (1515/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Is it possible to consider that the Is the result of the previous vote valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u134	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u136	Yes 91 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 53 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1515/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1515/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u138	Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1673/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1673/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-28-definitief-55-plenair-ip085x.u139	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 4, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 February 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
