ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I had doubts whether perhaps I should ask my question in writing, given its technicality. I am asking for data, figures and profiles, but I am asking for a very complicated problem with regard to interned people. I am convinced that more data will help us further in the area of follow-up, guidance and protection of society. This year, moreover, it has been five years since the law on internment was substantially amended. I have already asked you a written question on this, which shows that the number of interns is increasing considerably. Do you have an explanation for that? I am also curious about the evolution of the number of interned in the longer term. The SURTAP application used by the Registrys of the Criminal Courts for their file management would not contain any information on the offences that led to the punishment, nor would there be any link to the records of the correctional Registrys, which means that there is no statistical information available today as to the nature of the facts for which someone was interned. That is how the answer to my written question shows. Furthermore, there appears to be no information available on the profile of the person concerned. I'm talking more specifically about age, the nature of the disorder and so on. This information seems essential in order to better monitor internments and address their causes. How come this information has not been included in the application so far? Wasn't that supposed to happen initially? Wouldn't this information be better added to the SURTAP application or couldn't a link with the correctional registry provide a solace here? Will you take care of this? This lack of registration does not make it possible to tell how many people are still interned at the moment, which, according to the new internment law, could no longer be interned. Moreover, the same SURTAP application does not mention the legal status of the institutions where the interns are held. Will this also be remediated? Is there going to be an evaluation of the internment law and what will that evaluation consist of? Will the underlying cause of the increase in the number of internments be investigated? Are you prepared to instruct the NICC to seek and analyse the relevant judgments and judgments so that a much-needed understanding of the internment measures can be obtained? I would also like to make a warm plea to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u2	Madam President, Mr Segers, you have asked me a written question about the very sharp increase. In order to answer that question, an in-depth study is needed. The judge shall in all independence decide whether he/she considers an internment to be appropriate. Thus, due to a lack of sufficient places of care, judges may have expressed fewer internments in the past, and the newly created places are now more likely to pronounce an internment. It may also be that more people with mental illness commit facts. Several explanations are therefore possible, but without a thorough study this continues to be conjecture. It would therefore be interesting to have a better view of this. I'm willing to take a look at the academic world to see if there's any interest in in-depth research on the subject. As regards your second question, a total of 302 internments were registered in 2016. I will provide you with the figures from 2017 to date in writing. As far as your third question is concerned, the Central Criminal Register database records the offences which have given rise to a particular penalty or security measure, including an internment. That is where the information can be found. I will provide you with a systematic overview in writing of the main crimes that led to the internment being pronounced between 2016 and 2021. Of course, the figures for 2021 are not yet complete. The SURTAP application was then developed for the criminal courts. The application is a kind of file box in which the clerk fills in data manually. The application was also used to send call letters and to assign numbers to files. Today, the SURTAP application is still being completed by the Registrars, but only in order to obtain statistics on the number of files, the number of procedures and the number of decisions taken by the criminal courts. When the Office for the Protection of Society was established in 2016, it was found that the application did not contain sufficient possibilities to guarantee the substance of the follow-up to the internment files. This is why a new application was developed, the GEJO or the Integrated Electronic Judicial Follow-up File. In the meantime, this application has been extended nationally to all criminal courts. Since 15 October 2020 this application has also been used in the French-speaking country section. This application contains all documents of the internment file, both the titles and the records of the courthouse, the reports of the PSD, opinions of the prosecution, decisions of the KBM and victim files. It is used by all actors who intervene in internment files. This database is an electronic file, which was developed primarily to simplify the functioning of criminal courts and to automate the exchange of information between the different partners. This database has been developed in recent years to meet the needs of criminal enforcement courts and their partners. Today the calls by the clerks from the GEJO are also being made. With the GEJO application, major steps have been taken in recent years to work digitally faster and more efficiently. The SURTAP application is only used by the Registrys to enter data for the purpose of obtaining statistics. Given the double input and the additional workload, it is currently being examined whether statistics could be generated from the GEJO in the future. That seems to me to be the logic itself. Pending this, the SURTAP application will continue to be fed. A pilot project is currently under way in Ghent where mental disorders and qualification files are filtered and recorded separately. Based on this, statistics are already available for the KBM Gent for 2020-2021. Filtering this data from the files requires a lot of extra capacity. It will be necessary to examine whether this is feasible at national level. In GEJO it is stated under which statute and in which institution the interns reside. These statistics are already available at national level. The application landscape of the judicial order for which the latter is dependent on the FPS Justice still has the necessary shortcomings due to the absolute age and great fragmentation. An immediate result of this is the information flow and the information integration that lies behind. In addition to the SURTAP application, another application is now in use within the criminal courts that allows better management of the underlying files. However, neither the SURTAP application nor the GEJO application offer the necessary management data for full reporting today. There is therefore a need to rationalise the situation. Hence a long-term vision for the digitisation of the judicial order is necessary and clear. This process of digitisation of the judicial system includes the introduction of a modern case management system built on a robust data architecture. The various discussions on the roadmap and its priorities are still ongoing. At some point the applications of the criminal courts will also be renewed. Depending on the outcome of this discussion and the prioritization over time, a stabilisation of existing applications and a continuation of evolutionary maintenance with, where relevant, improvement in statistical data will be considered pending structural renewal. I shall then come to your fifth question. There is no provision in the coalition agreement for an evaluation of the internment law. In the meantime, we are looking at the law with a number of experts to evaluate and adjust it where necessary. Finally, your last question. That's definitely something we can consider, but first we're going to do the exercise to see how we can evaluate and correct the internment law. In any case, we are going to pass on your suggestion to the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. I am particularly pleased that you will be informing us about the in-depth academic research on the ground and that you take the question of involving the NICC seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55019299C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I have tabled a motion of recommendation concerning the anti-approach bracelet. The subject was already discussed in November 2019. The anti-approach bracelet system already existed in Spain and has proved its worth. Now it has also been introduced in France. There is indeed a difference with the warning app you had used in Ghent. The anti-approach bracelet has an automatic system. With a convicted violent man, that device is placed. The victim carries a kind of receiver and receives a warning when the attacker is in a particular zone. When the perpetrator enters a prohibited zone, the order services shall be informed automatically. That is where the big difference is with the pilot project in Ghent, where the victim still has to make an act of his own. In my motion for a recommendation, I urge you to include the system in the legislation. The Women's Council and former Minister Nathalie Muylle spoke out in favour of the system, and that will also be confirmed by the current Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. I have added a few new questions to my original question. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u6	Madam President, I have, of course, taken note of the French system. It concerns the law of 28 December 2019 published in the French Journal of Officially on 24 September 2020 and entered into force on 25 September 2020. This system was initially deployed in only five jurisdictions in France, followed by the others. The French Minister of Justice describes it as follows: "The anti-approximation bracelet is an electronic surveillance device that allows for the geolocation of a person to be protected and a real or presumed perpetrator of domestic violence. Without resorting to prison, this bracelet is the strongest, most binding and protective response to domestic violence." The order to wear an anti-approach bracelet may be imposed in France in the context of criminal proceedings, on the order of the investigating judge or the so-called judge des libertés et de la détention, this is the judge who assesses requests for remand or release. The order may be given as an additional measure in the event of judicial review and as a penalty. In civil proceedings, too, the family court may issue such an order to protect a woman who reports violence and who is deemed to be in danger. In this case, the consent of the violent husband must be sought before the bracelet is applied. If he or she refuses to do so, the court may refer the case to the court for a criminal investigation, after which he or she may decide to impose the penalty if he or she deems it necessary. The measure is ordered for a period not exceeding six months and may be renewed subject to certain conditions. The total duration shall not exceed two years. How can we assess this system? The French example is an interesting example that needs to be studied in greater depth. It is clearly a very interesting instrument that can be used in the fight against violence between partners. In this respect, French and Spanish experiences are full of teaching. The first experiments in the implementation of the French law have, in fact, been evaluated positively to a large extent. However, there are two comments. Firstly, an important aspect of the French system is that the instrument does not enter into force until after the arrest warrant, conviction or execution of the sentence. Some time after the facts. In life-threatening cases, it is important to be able to intervene without having to wait for this stage of criminal proceedings in order to be able to act more quickly. A second comment. It is also important to mention the impact – not to be underestimated – that this measure may have on victims. Some victims made their bracelets after a few weeks because of the impact on their privacy, i.e. the intrusive nature of permanent geolocation, the stress in case of false alarm caused by technical problems or poorly defined perimeters and even more of the abuse by convicted persons, who deliberately break the perimeter to scare their victim. In our country too, such an initiative has already been initiated with the proposal by Members of Parliament Matz and Prévot. Following the hearings and the comments made, the proposal was redrafted. It was then decided to set up a technical parliamentary working group to discuss this issue further. In view of the integration into criminal proceedings and the supervision of both the victim and the offender, the Communities were also involved. The working party was convened twice, but after that the work was apparently stopped by corona. In any case, we must take into account the specificities of our penal system, on the one hand, and also the institutional reality which makes the Communities important partners in this field, on the other hand. These are all elements that we must take into account in the further development in Belgium! It does, however, mean that this can be an important complementary instrument in the fight against harassment. For the anti-stalking app, I refer to the initiative taken in 2019 by the then Minister of Equal Opportunities, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice to develop a mobile stalking alert for victims of life-threatening stalking by an ex-partner in the framework of violence by ex-partners, in the framework of the Ministerial Letter of 29 May 2019. A working group was set up and, in order to define, test and evaluate the possible application of the circular, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men launched a pilot project in Ghent in 2019, which was completed in December 2020. The project included a holistic approach combining a police security system through an application with comprehensive multidisciplinary follow-up of victims, potential children and perpetrators. This project has been evaluated and the results are promising. All actors must now come together to discuss how this project could be deployed at the national level. The evaluation was delivered to my cabinet and I will work with Mrs Schlitz on this. With regard to your question about the reduction in the lead times for intra-family violence, we do not know how you arrived at the three-year deadline. I'll get it in detail from the D.A.'s office, but I'd be surprised if the lead time was actually three years. In any case, it is important that we react quickly and effectively. This can and this certainly happens within the framework of family justice centers. There the problems are tackled in a holistic way in consultation between the various partners. If it comes to a conviction, it is of course important that it follows as soon as possible. More importantly, the instruments that provide services, not only repressive services but also socio-preventive or curative services, are in their hands to help victims and to guide and punish perpetrators. Take the example of the anti-touch bracelet. I have just made the point that such a measure can only be imposed in the French system at a late stage, only after alleged facts. So we need effective and, above all, effective instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u7	Minister, you find it very interesting. So that's a good start. Your comments are justified. The stress of the victim and the unsub who would play with her feet are matters that can be dealt with properly. That should not be a reason to hesitate to introduce such a thing. Your first comment, particularly to act more quickly after the facts without having to wait for the whole process, is a good thing. After all, the lead time is long. I'm also curious about the numbers, if you'd like to request them and deliver them to me. We often read about a lead time of two to three years. That's no exception. If a criminal complaint is filed with an investigating judge, it is no exception that the file stops there for another year after closure and dispatch to the court. At that time, certain tools are not available to the victims. In proceedings before the family court or the juvenile court, the offender is still not convicted and is often a danger to the children. At that point, the decision isn't there yet, so nothing can happen to it. You also mentioned the "réalité institutionnelle." The fact that Belgium is a complex fact cannot be a reason not to be able to continue with the bracelet. You said that the parliamentary working party met twice and then stopped by corona. Now that Corona is under control, I would like the work to continue. I shall therefore continue to question you about progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u8	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to the fact that, after Spain, France is now using an anti-approach bracelet in the fight against intra-family violence; - whereas this system has already led to a significant reduction in the number of cases of intra-family violence and the number of (ex) partner murders in Spain; - whereas both the Women's Council and former Minister of Equal Opportunities Muylle are in favour of implementing this system; - having regard to the fact that this question for introduction was already raised in the Justice Committee at the end of 2019, but has now died silently; - whereas the list of (ex) partner murders has since increased worryingly; asks the government - urgently take the necessary initiatives to implement this anti-approach bracelet in the current legislation, following the example of Spain and France; - a drastic reduction in the time-limit for condemning cases of intra-family violence so that victims can be protected more quickly and efficiently." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de Mme Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - in view of the fact that, after Spain, France is now also using the anti-approximation bracelet as part of the fight against domestic violence; Whereas in Spain this scheme has already led to a significant decrease in the number of cases of domestic violence and in the number of marital homicides; Whereas both the Women's Council and Ms. Nathalie Muylle, the former Minister for Equal Opportunities, are in favour of the deployment of this mechanism; - Whereas the request to deploy this mechanism has already been referred to in the Justice Committee at the end of 2019 but has been forgotten in the meantime; Whereas, since then, the list of marital homicides has increased alarmingly; asks the government - to take urgent steps to insert the use of the anti-approximation bracelet in current legislation, like Spain and France; - to drastically shorten the time frame for sentencing in cases of domestic violence, so that victims can be protected more quickly and effectively." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u9	Minister, the German Government has recently banned the public display of Hamas flags. That decision was taken after several anti-Semitic incidents had occurred in Germany in the aftermath of the most recent war between Israel and Hamas. For example, synagogues were attacked, Israeli flags burned and anti-Semitic slogans scanned at various demonstrations. In the Netherlands, too, there is already such a ban in Article 131 of the Code of Criminal Law, which deals with sedition. As a result, the public display of flags and symbols of terrorist movements in the Netherlands is prohibited. Both Hamas and Hezbollah are classified as terrorist organisations, as are the Taliban, Al Qaeda and Islamic State (IS). Is waving a flag of Hamas in Belgium also punishable? If yes, under what provision? If not, is that considered freedom of speech? Do you think a flag ban, as it currently exists in our two neighbouring countries, is necessary, as Hamas is already on an EU list of banned organisations? Have people been condemned in Belgium for manifesting flags such as Hamas, Hezbollah, Al Qaeda or IS? What is your advice to the competent authorities for future events, waving one of these flags?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u10	Mr Freilich, as regards your first question, you will not be surprised that the starting point is Article 19 of our Constitution. That's what captures freedom of speech. That freedom is a precious asset, with which we must be very careful. There is no legislation today against the use of symbols related to terrorist organisations. However, in our legislation, we do have Article 140a of the Criminal Code on public provocation to commit a terrorist offence. That article was introduced by law of 18 February 2013 and provides that any person who disseminates a message or otherwise makes it publicly available with a view to instigating a terrorist offence is punishable. It should be made clear that this criminalisation cannot lead to the punishment of acts that are not related to terrorism and that threaten to undermine freedom of expression. Therefore, the judge will have to take different criteria into account to assess whether there is a public provocation to commit a terrorist offence. The criteria are the author of the message, its recipient and the nature or context in which the message is formulated. As far as your second question is concerned, I will answer it with a number of considerations. First of all, unlike Germany, we do not have legislation to exclude groups from the law because of their extremist or terrorist nature. Here too, our Constitution, in particular the Constitutional right of association and assembly, plays a fundamental role. Secondly, it is not so difficult to imagine which organisations we would start with for such a flag ban, but the question is where we would end up. Shall we determine that in the law, or shall we leave it to the government? Thirdly, our legislation on terrorist offences has been adapted and extended in recent years. The current arsenal is sufficient for our services of justice and police to combat the phenomenon of extremism and terrorism. There is currently no question asked by the federal prosecutor to widen the criminal charges. In other words, flag display in itself is not a criminal offence, but it can be an element that is taken into account by the federal prosecutor in his prosecution of terrorist offences. As far as your third question is concerned, more than 470 people have been convicted of terrorist offences in our country since the beginning of 2015. Most of them were convicted of jihadism, including jihadists who were showing off an IS flag. They were not prosecuted and punished for showing the flag in itself, but it was certainly an element that supported the crime of participating in a terrorist organisation. The same applies to Nazi flags. The public prosecutor will check whether there is a violation of the Negationism Act of 23 March 1995 and whether the Nazi flag, together with other elements, constitutes a criminal incendiary to hatred and violence. The display of flags in public or under circumstances, as provided for in Article 344 of the Criminal Code, accompanied by the glorification of Nazism or the insurrection of a mass, can be qualified as inciting hatred, violence and discrimination within the meaning of the anti-discrimination law and the approval and or justification of the genocide during the Second World War under the negationism law. In the context of such investigations, such flags may also be seized and forfeited by criminal law. Your final question on the maintenance of public order concerns a competence of the Minister of the Interior. Our security services have a lot of experience, including through the organisation of the European summits in Brussels. If a certain flag display provides a context in which public order is compromised, the security services can take action on the administrative front.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u11	Minister, it is indeed a very interesting question, because it concerns the interface between freedom of expression and sedition. For me, it is clear that freedom of expression stops at some point. I think it is a step too far to show a flag of an organisation which is on the list of the organizations banned by Europe, even though we do not have a list in Belgium, but we are part of the European Union. I understand that different considerations have to be made by a judge in this respect. Thank you for the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u12	Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm to you that at present no method of calculation is favoured by the law. The judge shall determine the method of calculation which he considers most appropriate for determining the amount of the maintenance contributions. The Commission for Maintenance Contributions was established in accordance with the Judicial Code. Its purpose is to make recommendations concerning the determination of the contribution of each father and mother. The King may also determine a method of calculation to facilitate the implementation of the recommendations of the Commission. This Commission, whose new composition will be determined shortly, must provide an analysis of the different methods of calculation possible. It is true that a single calculation method would facilitate the work of judges and could lead to the granting of maintenance contributions which would not be too different depending on the place of residence of the citizen. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u14	We can hardly hear you, Minister. The connection is very bad. Please repeat your last sentences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u15	That's because I'm connected on my phone. If someone calls me, I'll fall back from 4G to 3G and I can't reach you anymore. Hopefully no one's calling now. It is true that a single method of calculation would facilitate the work of judges and could lead to the granting of maintenance contributions which would not vary too much depending on the place of residence of the citizen. However, the judge should not be prevented from exercising his discretion. It is this balance between legal certainty, uniformity and appropriateness in relation to the case to be sought. I therefore await the committee's recommendations before proposing, where appropriate, a specific method of calculation. Mrs Rohonyi, in reply to your last question, I confirm that the lawyers are indeed represented in the Commission des contributions alimentaires in accordance with the Royal Decree of 7 February 2014. They are therefore present at the meetings of the Commission, during which discussions on the different methods of calculating food contributions take place. In addition to lawyers, the Commission is composed of magistrates, notaries, mediators, representatives of representative associations active in the area of maintenance claims, representatives of the League of Families and the Gezinsbond, and a representative of the Maintenance Claims Service. It is therefore in a collective and transparent manner that this reflection is carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u16	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. I think it is more than time to be able to objectiveize the method of calculating food contributions. There is indeed a real sense of arbitrariness today that results from the absence of an official calculation method which, in the end, only fuels tensions in family situations which are already very difficult and which often crystallize around questions of money, which is not acceptable. On the other hand, one cannot set up a method of calculation that will eventually replace the judge's discretion, which is particularly fundamental in view of the multiplicity of situations which the judge has to deal with. In this regard, I have some caution on your part, some wisdom in the sense that you are not seeking to move towards a particular method of calculation, but you are waiting for the results of the work of this Commission on Food Contributions. You also assure me of the presence of the actors in the field. That's a point I was hoping to be reassured about. I am, and I thank you for that. If I can allow myself a suggestion, we can work with tables, with calculation methods which, for example, could take up the criteria mentioned in article 203 of the Civil Code but then serve as references, indicators for the judge's decision, a little like the scale of sentences in criminal law but really no substitute for the judge's decision, especially in cases where it is very difficult to establish in a certain way those contributing capacities. I am thinking in particular of the self-employed. I sincerely hope that the Committee on Food Contributions will, in particular, take into account the specific nature of these individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55019322C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u18	On May 5th, I asked you about the decriminalisation of sex work. You know that we very much welcome this, provided that there are a number of preconditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u19	Madam President, I will read my question. I apologise for this, but this is a point on which we need clarification. Minister, on June 22, Le Soir published a white card signed by several representatives of the Samilia Foundation, the association that received the Wallonia-Brussels Federation Prize for Democracy and Human Rights in 2018 for its work on combating trafficking in human beings. Among the signatories are Mr Charles-Éric Clesse, who is no less than the Hainaut's auditor of work, and who is therefore very familiar with the cases relating to trafficking in human beings. In this carte blanche, the association denounces aspects of your draft law on the reform of sexual criminal law that would be incompatible with its objectives, including the fight against trafficking and the protection of minors of age. According to the association, your reform would even nullify all the measures taken so far in the fight against pimping and the protection of minors. They denounce the following: - the decriminalization of pimping in favour of "abnormal" exploitation of prostitution; - the reversal of the burden of proof in relation to the prostitution of minors between the ages of 16 and 18, so that a pimp or a client can no longer be convicted unless it is shown that the pimp or a client has committed an offence voluntarily and knowingly against a minor - which will still be quite difficult to prove; - the repeal of any offence relating to the advertising of the provision of sexual services on the Internet; - the abandonment of any means of closing down sexual trafficking facilities. From what came back to us from this preliminary draft, you are thus totally denying the commitment you made, particularly in committee on 2 June, that "the prostitution of minors and the exploitation of adult sex workers are and will continue to be punishable". I understand that you have held a number of consultations, including Myria, Payoke and UTSOPI, except that some associations, especially feminist associations, seem to have been completely excluded from these consultations. I also hear your willingness to have this text adopted as soon as possible, before the parliamentary holidays. But to force Parliament to take a decision in two weeks on such a complex subject seems disrespectful and counterproductive to me. Minister, what stakeholders have you consulted in the development of this bill? Is Payoke the only association involved in combating trafficking in human beings? If so, why not extend these consultations, especially for such a large bill? Are you considering further consultations before the final adoption of the bill in the Council of Ministers on Friday and the tabling of the bill in Parliament? Does this latest version take into account the recent opinion of the College of Attorneys General? Should we not wait for the final opinion of the Council of State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u20	Madam President, I shall begin with the questions put by Mr Segers. First of all, decriminalisation is not aimed at making the red light districts disappear, but at putting an end to the hypocrisy of the current situation. Now there are criminal law provisions, but they are not being complied with. The current policy of tolerance has many disadvantages. It creates randomness. Cities and municipalities then draw up their own rules under tolerance policy. As a result, the working conditions within the same sector are very different. COOVID-19 has exposed the poignant situations that have led to this. The aim is to create a situation where sex workers can work safer and not make red light districts disappear. However, it is intended to make tolerance zones disappear. The word "tolerated" has to come out. We have a penal law that must be aimed at effective punishment. Leaving aside provisions that are tolerated in reality is an unsustainable, Kafkaian situation for sex workers. I can't predict that sex workers will work more widely across cities and municipalities. That's not relevant either. There is also no causal link to exploitation. It is not because sex workers spread more widely across a city or municipality that situations of exploitation would therefore become less visible. On the contrary, when decriminalising, sex workers are treated as ordinary workers or entrepreneurs, regardless of whether they are on one street, a village or spread over a city. For example, all items offering erotic services will be registered under the same NACEBEL code. This means that the sector will become more transparent and accessible to carry out controls and thus detect abuse. Decriminalisation will also make customers more likely to report possible exploitation situations. After all, they are no longer doing anything illegal, and so help can be provided more quickly, where necessary. You refer to the situation in the Netherlands. First of all, the comparison with the Netherlands should not be made. In the Netherlands we have legalized, not decriminalized as we wish to do. We have learned from the mistakes of the Netherlands not to legalize. They have imposed a strict legal framework on sex workers within which they must operate. For many sex workers in the Netherlands, the threshold to work within the legal framework was simply too high, leaving them under the radar and working in illegality. By imposing too strict a framework, people are forced back into illegality, where they are more susceptible to exploitation. We want to signal that a sex worker has the right, like any ordinary worker in Belgium, to pursue his or her profession without imposing strict conditions or other high requirements that we would not impose on another worker. The legal sector will be just as much more visible, as I explained in my previous reply. In order to detect vulnerable persons, it is also essential that the police services have a good knowledge of the prostitution environment as a whole. One of the critical success factors in detecting cases of forced prostitution is the establishment of a relationship of trust between the police, the sex workers and the organisations working in this field. We will, of course, work on that. Social inspection services will also play a role in monitoring compliance with the social status established for the exercise of prostitution. In the Schipperskwartier area, for example, the prostitution team is most visible. They have regular contact with the operators of window prostitution houses and the sex workers who work there. That's how they build a bond of trust with them. The prostitution team in Antwerp monitors HookUp, a digital application that records all rental contracts between property owners and sex workers. So they know which sex workers work at what time. In this way, they can combat abuse and prevent sub-renting to minors or sex workers who are forced to do so. I would first like to consult with the relevant Cabinets with the sector to see if they are interested in the roll-out of such a system. On your fifth question, the answer is negative. I think it's more important to inform customers about signs of possible exploitation. We must encourage them to quickly report cases of exploitation by means of a declaration which is low-threshold, efficient and without stigma. The police will be an important partner in this. As far as your sixth and final question is concerned, that seems to be a difficult system to implement, as the practice of prostitution in private homes is already permitted. I am not in favour of this, as it would limit too much the way in which a voluntary sex worker should work. We want to avoid such legalising measures at all times. By imposing too strict a legal framework with all kinds of regulations, we push sex workers into illegality. That is also the message I would like to send to the Ministers responsible for drawing up a good statute. That is what Mrs Rohonyi's questions are about. Various associations have been consulted, such as Sürya. We have received an opinion from the Network of Expertise on Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings. We are also in contact with other associations working on trafficking. The purpose of the consultations was to create a working environment for sex workers that would allow them to leave the grey area in which they were confined, acting as if they did not exist. It is outdated to make a moral judgment on these people. Our goal is that these activities can take place in a clearer and safer environment. There is, of course, a need to take into account the risks of abuse by criminal networks that wish to divert such measures. It is for this reason that discussions are currently taking place within the government in the context of second reading. As I have already mentioned, more extensive consultations are taking place and the project has already been adapted to meet the comments made and to move forward in a willingness to compromise which is neither harmful to the fight against trafficking nor restrictive of the possibility of offering sex workers a real status. Of course, it is still up to Parliament to decide whether further consultations are necessary. Finally, in the new version, account was taken of the various opinions, including those issued by the network concerned and the College of Prosecutors General. We received an opinion from the Council of State on 25 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. Decriminalisation does not, of course, mean that there are no situations of exploitation. At this stage, I would particularly like to inform myself, and I would like some of your answers to be taken into account, but I will certainly come back to you and I am glad that you take the matter so seriously. In the meantime, I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u22	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. As far as the form is concerned, I still have no details as to when this committee will have to examine your preliminary draft. You have made a commitment, on several occasions at our meetings, to have this bill passed before the summer. Either you keep your word and you are forcing Parliament to vote on a major draft within two weeks, which I think is rather disrespectful and counterproductive, or you are not holding up this deadline and you are making it clear. For the rest, you tell us that you have consulted all the relevant actors in the field. I wonder why the criticisms of these same actors on the ground, and in particular of feminist and anti-trafficking associations, are also virulent with regard to this text. As far as the substance of these same criticisms is concerned, of course, a specific legal status must be granted to prostitutes. I have always said so and my party has always been clear on this point because it is necessary to get out of the current hypocrisy, but you cannot accompany this status with a kind of legitimization of pimping. Indeed, as I said last May, if I join you on the need to decriminalize sex work, you must at the same time strengthen the protection of these people to ensure that their choice is completely free and informed, which is not always the case, we all know. Your bill, in any case for the little we know about it, proposes the opposite. You tell us that decriminalization of customers will cause customers to report abuse. Maybe, but not always. I am not as sure, if not at all, because what comes out of your preliminary draft is that an abnormal exploitation will have to be dismantled and, as far as minors are concerned, the fact that the offence was carried out voluntarily and knowingly. The burden of proof will be extremely difficult to bring. Therefore, I fear that this reporting of abuse is very difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u23	Minister, on April 26, I asked about the status of the new courthouse in Tournai. Today, almost two months later, and before the summer period, I wonder what the situation is. In addition, you had the opportunity to meet the President of the Hainaut Court of First Instance on the spot when you visited Charleroi on a borough visit. Could you give me a precise timetable for the start of the work? Or is there still some uncertainty about this construction? In which case, it would be serious. If there is uncertainty, do they relate only to the exact program? In this case, on what specific points?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u24	Mrs Marghem, the Judicial Order's Infrastructure DG is in the process of developing a new general framework for the preparation of the various programmes to meet its needs. This framework will take into account, inter alia, the impact of digitisation, telework, new post-covid occupancy standards, and the application of the new way of working. This study is guided by a joint working group, composed of representatives of the strategic units of Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments, as well as the two administrations. We can expect that the first application of this framework, in the form of several concrete programmes, will be submitted to the Finance Inspectorate in the fourth quarter of this year. The general program of Tournai's needs is one of those developed using the same model and parameters. Much work and consultation is under way to prepare it. That is why it is not yet possible for me to give an exact date for the start of the work in Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u25	Minister, thank you for the start of this response. I see the difficulty, since unfortunately we are still only in general projections, and not necessarily – correct me if I am wrong – in the details of the Court of Tournai. I am thinking of the volume of buildings, the area reserved for staff members and, therefore, the number of people who could be there. So I'd like you to explain to me, if possible, what the situation is. Otherwise, and in strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask a new question as soon as I return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u26	Mrs Marghem, I will send you my supplementary reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u27	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 55019424C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u29	Minister, on June 11, the four Francophone labour auditorates and the Hal-Vilvorde Labour Auditorate conducted a joint operation in six Walloon and Brussels hospitals to verify that the working hours of MACS were being met. As a result of these checks, the Hainaut labour auditor stated that he was dealing with a major fraud at the level of a whole hospital. The working time register would not be kept and the badge would not be used properly. Overtime by medical specialists in training would thus not be declared or paid. The hospital in question would aim to declare only 48 hours of work per week, whereas the actual hours worked far exceed 48 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u30	Mrs Rohonyi, as you know, I cannot and I do not wish to comment on any ongoing judicial investigations. The judicial authorities shall communicate the results of such investigations in a timely manner, where appropriate, by way of a summons to be presumed responsible by the trial judge at a public hearing. So you will understand that I am not in a position to answer your questions in detail. However, I can give you the following information. First, for reasons related to confidentiality of information and the effectiveness of investigations, it is not possible to indicate whether and when the labour auditors will carry out other major controls in the future. It is of course not excluded that other large-scale operations should be carried out if this is justified in order to prevent and detect widespread infringements in one sector. Secondly, as you can see, the Hal-Vilvorde labour auditorate and the Brussels labour auditorate took part in the joint control operation on 11 June. After this operation, Leuven's work auditorate also organised checks. There are no diverging practices between the north and the south of the country. Thirdly, the Brussels-controlled hospital in 2020 was not re-checked on 11 June. At the request of the Brussels Labour Auditorate, this hospital received a warning and was asked to regularize the situation. The monitoring of social laws has been entrusted with monitoring developments in this hospital. Fourthly, at this stage, the findings made during the checks are still being processed. If they reveal offences, the acts committed will have to be qualified as prevention and the labour auditor will have to determine whether prosecution can or should be initiated and, if so, determine the manner in which the prosecution is to be carried out. Fifthly, in the event of an infringement, the establishment may be the subject of a report of the finding of infringement. In the event of a prosecution, he may be brought before the criminal court or be offered a criminal transaction which will put an end to the prosecution by paying a sum of money or by the institution to regularize the situation vis-à-vis the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u31	In the absence of criminal proceedings, the file is sent to the Administrative Fines Department of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, which may impose an administrative fine. Sixthly, at this stage, the attention of hospitals was drawn to their obligation to comply with the law of 12 December 2010, fixing the working hours of the various professions. Seventh, if offences have been committed, the hospital - its attendants or agents - may be prosecuted. The Labour Auditorate will rely in particular on the Social Inspectorate's services to ensure that the situation is regularized and no longer repeated. They will pay attention to the protective measures implemented by the institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. I wanted to ask you about this because you probably know that MACS are in an extremely difficult situation. They still do not enjoy a status. Talks are under way, but pending this status, which will at last protect them from unworthy working conditions, they need guarantees. They want to be able to say to themselves that justice will give itself all the means at its disposal to punish hospital management who abuse their vocation to exhaust MACS and thus violate the law. You recalled the means of punishment that are available to justice. Thank you. But to do this, we need upstream controls. I hear and note that other controls are not excluded. This is satisfactory, but there is a real need to ensure an ambitious control policy that can react as quickly as possible to any warnings and that can cover the entire territory. You tell us that there would be no difference between the North and the South of the country. I hope that this will be implemented in practice. Indeed, these checks were carried out by a few labour auditors, here and there. This is particularly the case because the situation of MACS has returned to the centre of the news. This may have led some doctors to denounce scandalous situations. I really hope that, regardless of the current situation, we will be able to control all situations when necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u33	Madam President, Minister, on September 9 and 10, the Parent Alienation Study Group (PASG) will hold a conference entitled "Protecting family ties after separation".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, in her final report on Belgium of 2020, GREVIO recommends that the professionals concerned should be made aware of the lack of scientific basis for parental alienation syndrome and that the public should be made aware of this. Just as I have already answered the question put to me in the Committee on Justice on 2 June 2021 by Laveleye's colleague, it is essential to distinguish clearly the term and phenomenon of parental alienation from the concept of parental alienation syndrome. The notion of parental alienation syndrome, i.e. a psychological syndrome in the head of a child, is rightly a controversial notion on which there is little research to date. On the other hand, parental alienation is the phenomenon in which a child facing divorce or separation completely turns away from one parent for the benefit of the other. It is a very complex subject and a multi-faceted issue. It is possible that the child is manipulated by one of the parents and instrumentalized in a divorce. This does not, therefore, prejudice the consideration of domestic violence in family cases. As for the conference Protecting family ties after separation, which will take place on 9 and 10 September at the premises of the European Parliament, the Judicial Training Institute informs me that this conference does not at all aim to promote the disputed concept of parental alienation syndrome but to prevent ruptures of ties after parental separation. The title itself "Protecting family ties after separation" is sufficient to demonstrate that it is not a question of promoting parental alienation but, on the contrary, of trying to put a definitive end to it. In addition, the Judicial Training Institute also informs me that it was brought before it in mid-June by the Unit for the Elimination of Violence against Women of the Ministry of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Centre for Support and Combating Violence between Partners of the Wallonia Public Service, which also expressed their concern about the IFG's assumption of the fees for the registration of judges of this conference, since, according to these two services, the central theme of this conference would be the promotion of parental alienation syndrome, which is not the case at all. Following this contact, the IGF has issued a request for an opinion on this subject, the result of which will be submitted to its Scientific Committee, which will consider this issue at its next meeting on 5 July, after which I will not fail to inform you of the opinion of the Committee. With regard to the third question, the IFJ has already organised a two-day training course for family and youth magistrates in 2019 entitled "Risk of loss of connection between parent and child. Parental alienation". This issue will be addressed again in the fall of 2021. Fourth question. In addition to the training that IFJ organizes itself, judges and judicial personnel can also participate in training organised by third parties - for example, a university, a bar association, a publisher, a private firm, an ASBL, a conference of a young bar association. The IFJ decides to pay the registration fee. It is useful for magistrates to have the opportunity, especially when it comes to topical issues or new legislation, to participate in trainings involving other legal practitioners and specialists in this field. The IFJ processes approximately 500 external training files per year. The criteria for taking charge of the costs of enrollment in these external training courses have been set by the IFJ on the proposal of the Scientific Committee. I'll send them to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u35	Minister, I thank you for your answers, although I believe that they reveal a difference between principle and practice. The principle is that the GREVIO report has indeed been very clear. It recommends that States depart from this misleading and even dangerous concept of parental alienation syndrome. As has been said, this concept endangers children whose mothers are accused of this syndrome, for example, simply because they want to protect their children from a violent parent; this is the most common case. It is therefore a concept that endangers the integrity of too many children. That is why it is also controversial, as you rightly pointed out. In addition to this awareness that you seem to have, we offer our magistrates training that puts this syndrome forward. You tell us that, according to the IFJ, this is not the case, that it is not intended to promote this syndrome. However, it must be noted that half of the lecturers who will give this training want to see this syndrome recognized. In the end, we are going against what I think is more appropriate to do, namely, to measure how family judges view incidents of violence and how they motivate their decision on custody and access, to identify the causes and consequences of situations where children are actually instrumentalized, and to take into account, in a non-ideological context, the reasons that sometimes lead a child to refuse the connection with one of his or her parents. For this, we do not need this syndrome at all, and that is why I am pleased to see a scientific committee set up to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u36	Mr Minister, on 28 April last I asked you in the Commission about the backlog of cases, after which you outlined the initiatives taken by your services in this area. Following his complaint to organise an external audit at the Superior Council of Justice, you were to meet with the President of the Brussels Court of Appeal, Laurence Massart, to discuss possible avenues to combat the backlog at the Brussels Court of Appeal. Your services had been conducting field discussions since December to resolve the backlog problem, with the establishment of a working group in February 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u37	The Brussels Court of Appeal has been lagging behind for a very long time. Contrary to what the name of the court suggests, the court is competent not only for Brussels but also for the entire province of Flemish Brabant. Unfortunately, Halle-Vilvoorde still falls within the scope of Brussels in the absence of its own courts, but the judgments of the Leuven arrondissement delivered by the Leuven courts of first instance are subject to appeal in Brussels. The Brussels Court of Appeal thus covers an area of no less than 2.4 million inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u38	Madam President, these questions are a follow-up to previous questions on the same subject. The problem of the delay in justice in Brussels has been a problem over the past few decades. However, we must be realistic. It is an illusion to think that this can be resolved in a few months. We have to deal with this. We're gonna do this, too. We will also make progress, step by step. It is unacceptable that the reasonable period of time should be systematically exceeded. You are absolutely right about that. We were also talking about structural measures on the basis of the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice this morning, but in the meantime we cannot sit down and take concrete measures. The problem of the backlog was discussed with the College of Courts and Courts. Everyone is aware of the urgency. The unfilled posts at the Brussels Court of Appeal were declared vacant in the Belgian Monitor on 7 May (two posts) and 28 May (four posts). Similarly, for the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels, four vacant posts were published on 7 May, as well as one additional post on 28 May. For the Dutch court of first instance in Brussels, 1 post was published on 7 May and 1 on 28 May. On 16 June I proposed my concrete actions for a budgetary injection into the judiciary. It specifically allocates resources to tackle the legal backlog. In addition to the strengthening of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the seat for specific projects, we are also making efforts against the legal backlog. That's what I'll be back for later. With regard to the process of the attacks, I have learned that budgets are being released from the interdepartmental commission on 'process attacks'. For example, a second assassin court can be created for the duration of 2 years, with the aim of having as little impact as possible from the trial on the normal functioning of the courts and the Court of Assists. This morning, the bill was discussed and put to the vote in the Justice Committee to create temporary court frameworks for the process of the attacks. In the draft law we are now drafting, we provide for flexible frameworks for the whole country, which would also allow for a temporary increase in the court of appeal in Brussels. That is what we want to do about the delay in justice. We are now awaiting the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice. We expect it by the end of the year. In anticipation, we already wish to recruit additional people to deal with the backlog. Whatever the reason for the delay - too few people, a bad organisation or a combination of the two - someone will have to deal with these files one day. That is where we do not want to wait for the audit. We will continue to talk to all those involved in Brussels. Soon my cabinet will be back together to discuss the progress of things. I shall then turn to questions 2a and 2b of the President. In order to eliminate the serious delay in a number of courts, additional staff are recruited. Especially in Brussels, at the Court of Appeal and the Labour Court, there are considerable delays to be overcome. Moreover, courts and courts are increasingly confronted with exceptional and complex cases from the federal court. That puts pressure on the normal capacity of the courts. The investment in both reinforcements amounts to 3.3 million euros. The additional staff needed to carry out the process of the attacks on 22 March will be financed separately. In concrete terms, the planned reinforcement for the Brussels Appeals Court, allocated by the College of Hoven and Courts, consists of: through the recurrent means: 6 counsellors, 1 referendaris, 2 clerks and 3 assistants; through the additional budget for dealing with the backlog: 4 counsellors, 4 clerks and 4 assistants; for the mega-processes: 1 counsellor, 8 clerks and 3 assistants; and, finally, as approved this morning, for the process of the attacks: 4 counsellors, 1 referendaris and 2 spokesperson. All in all, if we find enough candidates, a reinforcement of 15 counsellors, 4 referenda, 2 spokesmen, 14 clerks and 10 assistants level C. The same applies to transplants as to magistrates. We are working to make the profession more attractive. We focus on digitization and job satisfaction. We have drawn up a royal decree on the organization of working time and teleworking for judicial staff. We are preparing a social status for magistrates. It goes without saying that these measures apply not only to Brussels but also to the rest of the country. In fact, in different parts of the country, transplants face staff shortages. As far as the implementation of the frameworks is concerned, I have already said in the Committee of 26 April 2021 that the College of Courts and Courts is looking at the places to be filled in as a matter of priority. Once the law has been voted, the flexible frameworks will also apply to the Registrars. There are already 6 places for councillors published, 2 on 7 May and 4 on 28 May. The other places will be published soon. This is happening as soon as possible, but for some we still have to do a temporary extension of the framework. We are counting on a wave of recruitment this year. The sites foreseen for the process around the attacks can only be filled in from 1 January 2022. Mrs Rohonyi, we are aware that the various transplants are currently not sufficiently equipped to work in a fully digital way. There's still a lot of work to do. We are going to invest a great deal in the years to come to catch up in this area. By the way, we've already started. Thus, recently, the first deliveries of thousands of laptops took place. By the end of 2022, we will have distributed a total of 18,000 laptops, second screens, etc. so that our employees can work with new quality equipment. It's no secret to anyone that transplants need to work with outdated file management systems. This must and will change in the future. My services are currently preparing for digital transformation, where renewal of these applications is an important objective. This will be done gradually through the systematic addition of sufficient features that provide added value to the transplants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully agree with you that the backlog of cases in our country, and especially in Brussels, is so deep-rooted in our jurisdictions that it will take a great deal of time for judges, clerks and, above all, litigants to get rid of it. On the other hand, what bothers me is that we know the measures announced to respond to them for years. However, I must acknowledge that today there is an interdepartmental budget provision to implement these measures and to finance the modernization of computer equipment in the registries. So I'm not saying nothing is done. But I wonder whether some of the necessary measures, such as the recruitment of additional staff, the assessment of the workload of courts and tribunals, but also the use of alternative methods of conflict resolution on which I have not heard you, are being carried out in the right way. Are vacancies published on time? Do we anticipate the departures of the profession? Is the workload assessed on the basis of the right criteria, really relevant criteria? I hear that steps are being taken, that royal orders and bills are coming, but in parallel to that, you should be talking to the French-speaking stickman in Brussels and to the first president of the Court of Appeal who was sounding the alarm last April. It suggested, at the time, that an external audit be set up at the Supreme Council of Justice with the aim of objecting to the difficulties faced by our courts and tribunals in Brussels in the face of the backlog of cases. It would be more than time to look at this lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We have indeed been talking about it this morning. It is understandable that a problem that has been going on for a long time cannot be solved in two months. However, structural measures are urgently needed. I look forward to the results of the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice. I hope that it will deliver something that will make it possible to work more efficiently. Job vacancies are indeed being published, which I hope will enable them to be filled out. After all, that remains a pain. I am afraid, however, that we will not be able to get there with job vacancies alone, without any corresponding workload measurement. That workload must be properly distributed. I hope that it will really be done now, because judicial delays remain one of the pain points and frustrations of those seeking justice, especially in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u41	Madam President, I would add that the audit was initiated by the Supreme Council of Justice and that we hope to have the results by the end of the year. Of course, it is not just about job vacancies; it should also be possible to fill them out. We want to increase the speed of recruitment by, for example, shortening certain deadlines and informing people about possible applications before we should formally do so. In this way, we try to simplify and speed up recruitment procedures, so as not to lose any candidates. So that's where we're trying to change things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u42	Mr. Minister, the European Championship football brings with it a lot of gambling advertising. In 2018, the World Cup took place and 115.127 new registrations were counted on online gambling sites. In that period 302.862 unique players were allowed to play online. Those aren't small numbers, are they? In total, almost 204 million euros were wagered during the 2018 World Cup, which amounts to an average bet per player of more than 600 euros, not a small amount. In addition, there is a whole offline circuit. In the meantime, the Gaming Commission has launched a awareness campaign. Research shows that sports betting becomes more attractive to players with problematic gambling behaviour. Due to the type of games of chance, due to the popularity of live betting and also because both online and offline can be played, more and more people are taking the step to participate. In the press, I read your reaction to a discussion on this subject in the Flemish Parliament. You have already said something about it in plenary. In response to a previous question, you also indicated that the RTBF and the VRT have made a special commercial for the European Championships, aimed at young people, with the message "Stop on time." The Gambling Commission has also launched a campaign, "Always play legally," but that campaign is not about stopping gambling, rather about encouraging the use of the legal gambling circuit, which is something else. Those who surf to sporza.be, a website as part of the VRT, will be shown in the first picture of gambling advertising. This applies to Sporza's online website and not to Sporza's TV broadcasts, but gambling advertising is still very present on that website. I also mention Wesley Sonck, who promotes gambling advertising, but a little later in the studio is an analyst of an E.K. contest. Mr. Secretary, have you discussed online gambling advertising? I do not mean the campaigns you have announced before, but the online part, for example on the websites of the VRT. Several countries in Europe are currently discussing a possible ban for celebrities to participate in gambling advertising, which is in line with what I said about Wesley Sonck. That ban already exists in the United Kingdom. Are you considering the introduction of such a ban, for example during European Championships and World Championships periods, also in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u43	Minister, you have already received a question on this in plenary last week, but the question that has been put goes into more detail. I would like to check with you whether what has happened is actually in line with existing legislation. This requires a little more technical and more precise research, in addition to the moral aspect. We all agree that using BV to advertise gambling websites is morally reprehensible. Of course, the fact that a public channel offers a forum for this, but also the linking via the website, is totally unacceptable. You're not a Flemish minister. You're a Minister of Justice. That is why I appeal to you to see whether the legislative arsenal that we have today actually allows it and whether action cannot be taken. The VRT announced a few weeks ago that it would not broadcast gambling advertising around a number of major sporting events this summer, except for the Tour of France. I was very happy about that back then. That was good until the incident with Mr. Sonck. Specifically, a well-known gambling company with an ex-top athlete lures people to the website. They can play with them for free and they explicitly link with an existing team. It's literally said "Show that you're a real devil fan." Professor Smits van de KULeuven was very clear: "Sporters are used to normalize gambling and represent it as a game that is part of a sports competition." As far as that goes, we're all on the same page. The specific questions addressed by the Royal Decree on the conditions for the exploitation of games of chance and betting through information society instruments of 25 October 2018. How do you assess the application of Article 2 §1, 15° of this Royal Decree to online gambling advertisements by public broadcasters using ex-athletes and sports presenters? Are gaming companies allowed to lure people to their website through a free game, in this case a sports betting tournament? According to you, does this practice blur the line between paying gambling and free games, making the step to paying gambling much easier? How do you assess the advertising 'Show that you are a true devil fan' in the context of the prohibition in the KB to exalt players, to use drawings or marketing techniques that refer to characters and images that are popular or in fashion with minors or to use clues or listings regarding the events on which bets are wagered without the permission of the right holders? Do you consider it useful to amend this legislation? If so, what adjustments could possibly be made? If not, why not? What action will you take in this case? Finally, how do you assess the attitude of the VRT, which, on the one hand, commits itself to virtually no longer broadcasting sporting advertising on television, but, on the other hand, allows new gambling advertising on its website?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I said last week in plenary that gambling advertising is more present than ever, on television, online, via all kinds of channels. Especially in a period of big sports tournaments we are confronted daily with that advertising. We also saw an increase in gambling advertising during the 2018 World Championships. The Gaming Commission anticipated this with its awareness campaign launched a few weeks ago, "Stop on time." For the first time, such a campaign is also running on television, probably you have already seen the video and warn the players in prime time against the dangers of gambling. At the request of colleague Van Hecke, the Royal Belgian Football Association also shared that campaign through social media. I agree with you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is surprising, to say the least, that a public service broadcaster is also fully involved in this and that even football analysts, who are a role model for many young people, are being used as a sign of the gambling world. According to Belgian gaming legislation, active sportsmen and sports clubs are prohibited for gambling advertising. Although this is a football analyst and former footballer and therefore, strictly speaking, there is no violation of gambling legislation, this at least raises many questions for me. I have therefore written a letter to Mr Dalle, because rules are one thing, but they do not have to prevent public service broadcasting and advertising agencies from pursuing a more strict policy on gambling advertising. Moreover, the VRT explicitly included this in its 2020-2025 management agreement. In addition, we will, of course, also take measures as federal government and further tighten the rules so that we can limit excesses and excesses. In particular, we will work on measures to protect young people. They are increasingly exposed to the temptations of gambling. For this purpose, we have set up a working group within the government, with representatives of all ministers responsible for games of chance. The discussion with the Gaming Commission, the aid sector and the legal sector is also under way. During this working group and discussions, we will not shy away from the issues raised by Mr Van Hecke in his question. You are right to draw the thin line between offering free game participations, which are not prohibited in themselves, and giving gifts, which are not allowed in accordance with Article 60. Such practices do indeed blur the line between gambling and free games and can be a first step towards paying gambling especially for young people. The current rules are not sufficiently clear in this respect, and we will do so. Secondly, you rightly quote the use of slogans such as "Show that you are a true Devil fan." Such slogans can have an impact on playing behaviour, especially among young people. Today, gambling advertising is not allowed to raise the gamblers nor criticize those who do not gamble. This slogan does raise questions. At present, the rules on gambling advertising do not contain sufficiently clear instructions on the use of such slogans. We also need to adapt that. Third, the provision that gambling advertising should not use drawings or marketing techniques referring to characters and images that are popular with minors or in fashion was annulled by the Council of State in its judgment of 6 February 2020. Of course, the use of role models, such as influencers and other characters that are popular with young people, should be addressed. In addition to the regulations, I also appeal to the responsibility of public and private broadcasters, advertising agencies, gakoperators and sports clubs to deal responsibly with gambling advertising. Hence, in the autumn of 2020, the Gaming Commission and the Pro League took an initial initiative to tackle gambling advertising in the sports world. They have concluded a protocol with the aim of dealing responsibly with sponsorship by gambling companies. In this protocol, the Pro League also sets out a series of good practices on gambling advertising for its members. Here too, the intention is to remove excesses, and I hope that many will follow this example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is very good that a number of campaigns have been launched, but I still feel that we are working at two speeds. A number of campaigns are being launched to discourage gambling, but at the same time there is a very strong commitment to advertising, especially in the public service. This means that it is difficult to provide a counterweight or not enough to carry it through. I am therefore looking at the figures that will follow. I hope they will be positive, but at least they will show where action is still needed. You mentioned a number of remarkable things, such as the fact that there is already a ban on the use of active sportsmen and sports clubs and that there are already a number of passages in the management agreement of the VRT. Of course, the latter is not your competence, but the first one is. Perhaps it is interesting to see whether this should not be extended and to follow the discussion abroad. That may be about ex-athletes and may be extended in that sense, but abroad it is also about influencers, as you said yourself, because they have an impact on very young potential gamblers. It is certainly useful to follow these discussions and to take them into account in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u46	Minister, your answer was very clear and I expected nothing else. I've seen the commercial in the meantime, and I hope it'll help a little bit. However, with a commercial alone, we will not make it because the gambling sector is obviously looking for the grey areas. They also read the legislation very well. For example, if there are athletes, they call on an ex-athlete. Perhaps we can broaden our legislation a little, but if they can no longer work with a well-known ex-athlete, they can take, for example, a well-known ex-journalist or an ex-trainer. Imagine if Raymond Goethals was alive and they could tie him for that. It could also be influencers or artists. They will continue to search for figures who can sell their message and have their accounts thickened. I am pleased with your answer, but we really need to get to work now to tighten up legislation. It was a very good initiative to send a letter to your Flemish colleague Dalle. After all, the Flemish minister bears responsibility for the VRT and he must give the broadcaster a clear signal that they must stop doing so. Maybe now they've realized they're actually walking a thin line. I hope they understood this very well after all the fuss. The best signal would actually be to take Sonck stante pede off the screen. That would be a clear signal, but unfortunately we cannot decide that from the political point of view. However, you can count on our support to continue the fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u47	Madam President, Minister, increased road safety and an increased chance of speeding are important points in the federal government agreement, and rightly so. Since January 2021, the Brussels Office has implemented a policy that would allow an additional margin of tolerance for police areas. The letter was valid for six months but has now been extended until October 2021. In concrete terms, this letter ensures that an additional margin of 10 km/h would be added to the margin of 6 km/h above the speed limit. In concrete terms, speeding offences of 16 km/h or less should not be prosecuted. However, this additional margin may create more uncertainty for police areas. At the same time, it is not very conducive to the road safety policy that is being pursued, since Brussels is becoming a zone 30 as much as possible. If the breach of speed limits is not sanctioned, it undermines the credibility of this policy and drivers think that the speed limit of 30 km/h is only a paper measure. It is also noted that the vast majority of fines are paid in the automated phase. This means that the sanctioning of speeding offences should not necessarily lead to an increase in the workload of the Brussels parquet. You have also recently reported the figures to the committee. If I am not mistaken, 97% of the offences and fines are collected in an automated manner. That's a hugely high percentage. I have a number of very specific questions about this. What do you think of the measure taken by the Brussels parquet? Does it fit within the policy you wish to pursue on improving road safety? If so, in what sense? Can that parquet judge itself to create an extra margin? What will you do to prevent or prohibit these local margins in the future? Are there any other parquets that have a similar policy and have additional margins of tolerance? If so, which parquets is it about? What specific tolerance limits are used? How long have these measures been in force? In short, I am concerned about such a problem of tolerance limits which are being introduced even more above the already existing ones. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u48	Mr Van Hecke, I have spoken explicitly with the Public Prosecutor on this subject. They have told me that you are holding on to quotas and margins of tolerance, so to speak, at all times. I asked them to sharpen that image and asked for an overview of the quotas and/or tolerance margins within each of the 14 parquets. Apparently, I'm the prime minister of justice who's asking this question at the courthouse. My intention is very clear. I told Mrs Buyst a few weeks ago that tolerance margins and quotas should be abolished in the interests of road safety. I realise that this cannot be done overnight, but we have now put a few measures in place for this. First of all, we need to increase the chances of catching up by activating the various trajectories as quickly as possible and eliminating the quotas. I've already made that appointment with my federal and regional counterparts responsible for road safety. This will greatly increase the number of infringements. To cope with this increase, traffic parks and police courts are strengthened. By the end of 2022, 45 additional staff will be recruited from the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the couch, 30 people will join. In total, we are talking about 75 additional forces. The Minister for the Interior and myself also provide additional processing capacity in the various regional processing centres. In addition, digitalisation and better work processes can generate good efficiency gains. The digitisation of the traffic fine process via Crossborder has already resulted in huge efficiency gains in Justice, Police and Finance. Since the roll-out of the payment order, the workload at the level of our courts and courts has fallen significantly because the unpaid fines can now be awarded an enforceable title through the payment order. You know the payment order system. That is a very efficient system that ensures that there is no need for intervention from a court or a court, unless that enforceable title is challenged, which hardly happens. I will monitor all this closely, along with the College of Attorney General, but my objectives are now clear to everyone. We have also taken the necessary measures and invested in them. Step by step, we will achieve these objectives. I hope we can make a difference. Apparently, this has been a tradition in our country for many years, which does not improve road safety. Recently, I read an article from the Vias Institute pointing out that the organisation of good route control reduces the number of injuries by 50% in one year. These are measures that really make a difference to road safety. This also means that it is necessary to keep track checks in place and not to stop them if a particular body is no longer able to cope with the workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u49	Your reference to the study of the Vias Institute shows very clearly that we do not always have to make new laws or tighten laws. We just have to apply them. You're right. The D.A. says it's from all ages. Yes, there may have been a technical discussion in the past as to whether it could be measured exactly up to 1 km/h, but technology is progressing so fast that this discussion is no longer of today. I therefore think it is a fantastic initiative that you ask for an overview of each of the 14 districts, because I would also like to know which tolerance limits are applied per police area or per parquet. That you answer this way, I really like that. This will also encourage the public prosecutors to think carefully about the traditions they have inherited over decades and whether they are still of this age, especially since the Crossborder brings much less workload because of automated recovery. If one should do so manually, I would understand that hundreds of people cannot be recruited. However, much more fines can now be processed than previously by the automated system. All quotas can either disappear or they can be done times 10, times 50 or times 100. Let them disappear, because the automated system allows us to do much more enforcement with fewer people. The fact that initiatives are apparently still being taken to increase these quotas would not make sense if we had to explain it abroad, but in Belgium we could. Minister, I look forward to receiving the answers from the 14 prosecutors. I will ask a new question in September about the answers you will receive this summer. Then we can follow that up. I wish you every success and courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u50	Minister, recently, our country has been the victim of a number of large-scale cyberattacks. On 4 May, another attack targeted the Belnet network. On 9 June 2021, it came back to me that the European Commission had decided to open infringement proceedings against our country for the implementation of the Directive on attacks on information systems. To this end, a letter of formal notice was sent to Belgium. This directive is, of course, an important element of the protection countries may have against such attacks. Member States should designate contact points, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Commission seems to blame us for the incorrect transposition of the measures provided for, in particular as regards the provisions on penalties levels, as well as the criminalisation of the production and use of certain tools to commit cyber-attack offences. Mr Minister, could you confirm that a notice of formal notice has been sent to Belgium and provide us with more information on it and on the follow-up to it? Belgium has two months to respond to the arguments put forward by the European Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to send us a reasoned opinion. What is the evolution of the case at this stage in your department and in your firm?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u51	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. I apologize for the rather technical and legal nature of my answer, but it is necessary in this case. I have indeed taken note of the letter of 9 June from the European Commission on the transposition into national law of the directive to which you referred. After examining the transposition measures notified by Belgium, the European Commission considered that Belgium had not correctly transposed Article 9(4) of the Directive into its national legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission makes no mention in its letter of an incorrect transposition of the provisions on illegal interception and criminalisation of the production and use of certain tools to commit the offences referred to in the directive. The infringement procedure concerns only the transposition of Article 9, §4. More specifically, the fourth paragraph of article 9 introduces a series of aggravating circumstances. It requires Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that offences that infringe on the integrity of a system or the integrity of data are punishable by imprisonment for a term not less than five years in the event that they are committed within the framework of a criminal organisation, cause serious harm or are committed against a critical infrastructure information system. In the infringement proceedings, the Commission considers that it follows from Article 550b of the Criminal Code that Belgium does not provide for the minimum level of the maximum penalty for these aggravating circumstances. However, contrary to what the Commission is making in the assessment of conformity, my services still consider that our Belgian legislation is in conformity with Article 9. I'll explain why. First of all, in its assessment of the conformity of Belgian law, the Commission does not take into account the inclusion by the Act of 6 July 2017 on the simplification, harmonisation, computerisation and modernisation of the provisions of civil law and civil procedure, as well as of the notariat and introducing various measures in the field of justice, of a famous third paragraph in paragraph 1 of Article 550b which refers to the aggravating circumstance of the infringement committed against an information system of a critical infrastructure. This new paragraph 3 added specifically in the context of the transposition of the Directive provides that where the offence referred to in Article 550b(1) is committed against a critical infrastructure information system, the penalty of imprisonment shall be from six months to five years, which meets the requirements of Article 9, § 4. Secondly, although the Commission quotes paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 550b, they are not taken into account in the conformity assessment of Article 9(4). Both paragraphs provide that the penalty may be up to five years if damage is caused to data in the computer system concerned or in any other computer system or if the correct functioning of the computer system concerned or of any other computer system is totally or partially impeded. The penalties set out in these two paragraphs are therefore sufficiently high and in line with the level required by the Directive. Finally, with regard to the offence against the integrity of data committed within the framework of a criminal organization, the Government had chosen not to explicitly include this aggravating circumstance in article 550ter, since the penalties of up to five years' imprisonment were already provided for in the second and third paragraphs. In addition, if the rules of competition provided for in article 60 of the Criminal Code are applied, a maximum penalty of 6 years' imprisonment could be imposed for the offence of violating the integrity of data committed within the framework of a criminal organisation, which – again – is in accordance with the famous article 9 of the Directive. According to article 324ter, § 1, of the Criminal Code, membership of a criminal organization is punishable by a term of imprisonment of three years, which is also the case with the offence of violating the integrity of basic data. However, according to the rules of multi-offences, the penalties will be cumulated without, however, being able to exceed twice the maximum of the maximum sentence, i.e. six years. Again, this is in line with Article 9(4) of the Directive. In answer to your second question, on the basis of the technical and legal reasoning I have just explained to you, I would argue that Belgian law is in full conformity with the directive. No legislative changes are required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u52	Thank you for that detailed explanation, Minister. This is good news in relation to what was communicated in committee. We are all committed to fighting cyber attacks, which can cripple administrations, institutions and even a country. This calls into question its functioning, as we have seen recently. I am reassured by your explanations and your reply to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u53	Mr Minister, in the news from the European Commission, it is my responsibility that a letter of formal notice has been sent to Belgium for the failure to complete the transposition of the framework decision on the European arrest warrant and procedures for surrender of persons between Member States. The European arrest warrant provides for a rationalisation of judicial procedures for cross-border surrender. Specifically, if a judge or magistrate in one of the Member States issues a warrant for the arrest or detention of a person suspected of having committed a serious offence, that warrant shall be valid throughout the territory of the European Union. The European arrest warrant has been in force since 1 January 2004 and is a very effective instrument for judicial cooperation in criminal matters, particularly terrorism. It is therefore essential that all Member States, including Belgium, complete the process of transposing all the elements of the Framework Decision into national law. Is it correct that Belgium still has to take a step towards the full transposition of the Framework Decision? What are the points raised by the Commission's letter of formal notice? Do you already have a report from your services on the issues raised? What do you intend to do to complete this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u54	Dear colleague, the letter of formal notice sent by the Commission on 9 June to our government is part of five infringement proceedings initiated in June 2021. The States concerned are Belgium, Greece, the Netherlands, Hungary and Spain. As a reminder, on 18 February 2021 the Commission had already sent a series of letters of formal notice concerning this instrument to Cyprus, Germany, Sweden, Austria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania and Poland in October and December 2020. As for your first question, the framework decision on the European arrest warrant was transposed into Belgian law by the law of 19 December 2003 on the European arrest warrant, so almost 18 years ago. Following its analysis of the Belgian situation, the Commission noted concerns regarding the following provisions. Firstly, the non-transposition of Articles 18, 19 and 28, § 3, as well as the non-compliance of Belgian legislation with Article 1, § 2 – concerning the obligation to execute a European arrest warrant – and Article 2, § 2, which includes the list of 32 offences giving rise to the surrender without control of double criminality. The concern was expressed regarding the verification of the facts with regard to the list of 32 offences, in accordance with articles 5 and 16 of the Act of 19 December 2003. Secondly, Article 4, §§ 1, 3 and 4 of the Framework Decision on the grounds for non-compliance with the European arrest warrant: the concern expressed concerns the transposition of the optional grounds for refusal into compulsory grounds in the famous law of December. This concern may be due to a recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, delivered on 29 April. This judgment concerns in particular the transposition of the optional grounds for refusal provided for in the Framework Decision. The Court held that where Member States opt for the transposition of one or more grounds for non-execution provided for in Article 4, they cannot provide that judicial authorities are obliged to refuse the execution of any European arrest warrant formally falling within the scope of those grounds, without the possibility for them to take into account the specific circumstances of each case. Thirdly, Article 15(1) and Article 17(2) and (3) of the Framework Decision on time limits. The concern concerns the time limits for appeal and the risk of exceeding the 60-day time limit provided for in Article 17 of the Framework Decision, if those appeals are granted. Fourthly, Article 12 of the Framework Decision on provisional release and Article 17(5) on the guarantee of material conditions necessary for effective surrender. The concern here concerns the release of the accused under articles 16 and 17 of the Arrest Warrant Act, if the Chamber of Counsel or the Indictment Chamber does not act within the time limits. As for your second question, following the formal notice of 9 June, the relevant services of the FPS Justice carry out a legal analysis of the concerns and points raised by the Commission, in consultation with the judicial authorities. A written reply will be sent to the Commission within two months of receipt of the notice of formal notice. Belgium will thus have the opportunity to clarify and/or justify the transposition measures adopted to ensure the implementation of the Framework Decision on the European arrest warrant. In accordance with Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, after having taken note of these observations, the Commission may issue a reasoned opinion if it considers that a Member State has failed to fulfil one of its obligations. In such a case, the State concerned shall be given a period within which to comply with that opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u55	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. This is obviously a very complex area. As you mentioned, many other countries are in the same situation as us and still need to make improvements in the transposition of this Framework Decision. I think that your will is to listen to the Commission's comments and to respond to the various comments. What is important is that this possibility of really having an effective European arrest warrant, with a surrender of persons, with everything that goes together for effective international judicial cooperation within the European area, is a priority. Thank you for your willingness to implement this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u56	Madam President, Minister, I have been questioned by several officials from local police areas about the recycling and destruction of seized property in the course of their duties. Every year, a very large number of objects and property are seized in administrative or judicial proceedings (as part of a criminal component). These may include illicit products, substances or goods such as drugs, contraband products, counterfeit products or any other property unlawfully detained and thereby constituting an offence. My questions relate to the fate of these products or goods during or at the end of the procedure and, in particular, to their recycling or destruction. I am told that the cost of such recycling and destruction can be extremely high in some cases. I interviewed your colleague from the interior today, who has already provided me with some answers and who is sending me home. It's going well, it's the same day, so the answers will probably be consistent. Minister, on the judicial side, what is the actual fate of the goods and products seized in these administrative or judicial proceedings? I got the answer about the administrative procedures. I therefore look forward to the judicial response. More generally, who is responsible for the recycling or destruction of such goods and products? Do transplants have a particular role to play in this destruction and/or recycling? Can you quantify the number of seized assets that are destroyed or recycled each year on average and the overall cost that this represents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u57	Madam President, Mr Goffin, the fate of the goods and goods seized under these procedures depends on the nature of the goods and the outcome of the proceedings. For example, drugs are destroyed as well as counterfeits. The cars are sold via Fin Shop. Money is transferred to the Central Seizure and Confiscation Authority (CCSO) account. If the defendant who has been seized of any of his property is not sentenced at the end of the proceedings, the property or proceeds in question shall be returned to him. The Registry of the Correctional Court is responsible for the management of seized property. The prosecutor's office is responsible for the execution of the final decision on the seized property, even if this decision consists of its recycling or destruction. With regard to recycling and destruction, we are working with other partners, such as the firearms test bench in Liège and private companies for the destruction of narcotics, to name but two examples. It should be noted, however, that prosecutors do not intervene in the treatment of property seized by the administrative authorities. With regard to judicial seizures, a circular was being prepared by the College of Attorneys General, which provided for more effective treatment of seized objects. Seized property will either be returned to the seized party, destroyed, transferred to the Fin Shop or to a third party, confiscated, or stored. In addition, it is explicitly provided that, to the extent possible, seized property, including narcotics, will be immediately destroyed and that only a sample will be deposited, if necessary, at the court registry. Seized items may be disposed of immediately or returned to the seized party for payment of a sum of money. The product or sum of money will then be seized. The decision is made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, an investigating judge or a trial court. The Registry will enforce this decision if the property is filed in the Registry. According to the Public Prosecutor's Office, no figures are available. However, as far as drugs or weapons are concerned, the quantities are considerable, representing tens of tons. The digitization of our justice, however, should make it possible to quantify a number of things in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u58	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, the issue arises from the fact that certain police areas must bear the costs of such destruction (immediate destruction in judicial proceedings and destruction following administrative seizure), which is not normal. That is something to be paid attention to, but I do not confuse the judicial and administrative aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u59	Minister, I have been questioned by various practitioners about payments in the courts of first instance. In fact, whether these are amounts to be paid when submitting certain requests or the costs of obtaining certain acts or copies (repressive files, judgement, etc.).), lawyers, legal agents and litigants are forced to disburse certain sums of money from the accounting services of the various courts in our country. If the first two categories frequently use transfer vouchers (paper transfer with carbon copy), legal persons are obliged to make cash payments if no other possibility is opened to them. The various court registries and accounting services are thus not equipped with electronic payment terminals allowing the use of credit cards. It's 2021! This poses a real security problem for registries and accounting services when staff are obliged to regularly (quasi-weekly) carry cash, sometimes large, to a bank. Staff are thus exposed to the risk of loss and, above all, assault with a view to theft of these sums of money without any protection or guarantee. Similarly, such a system offers little protection against people with malicious intentions. Minister, how big is this problem? Is the establishment of electronic payment terminals envisaged? If so, when should they be installed? For cash transportation, are security services provided for the transfer of funds? How do you intend to modernise payment systems for legal acts in the broad sense, including those to be dealt with by the registries and accounting services of our courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u60	Mr Goffin, I am aware of this problem. I know that cash poses a security risk and also creates a significant workload for the processing of registry accounts. Nevertheless, a government must always take into account the freedom of payment of the public. In recent months, we have been in contact with a number of transplants to address this issue. During these conversations, we learned that there has been a significant decrease in cash payments in recent years. One reason is that court fees are now paid at the end of the proceedings and not at the Registry. In addition, the registries also note that, as in other sectors, the number of cash payments has decreased since the outbreak of the pandemic. The fact that there are fewer cash payments is good news because during this legislature we want to move towards more digital transfers and fewer cash payments. A pilot project was launched in May this year to answer this specific question. We want to best serve the different clients of the transplants by offering several modern payment methods. The project also aims to digitize and simplify the accounts and accounts of our clerks. To this end, we will install payment terminals in the various registries. A common problem with terminals is that many courts have little network. Infrastructure work will therefore have to be carried out. We have been installing payment terminals in our various registries since May this year. Twenty additional terminals were installed at these different pilot sites. An evaluation of the use of terminals will take place in the coming weeks, after which a schedule will be drawn up for deployment at the national level. The aim is to reduce the amount of cash in circulation. Some courts (Brussels and Ghent) work with bpost and a security company to ensure the transport of funds. As part of the digitisation of justice, it was decided to further optimize administrative processes, including payment flows within registries. Currently, an analysis of payment flows within registries is carried out by Cross Border services, which is recognized as having some expertise in digitisation and optimization in these processes for certain products within correctional and police prosecutors' offices and, in particular, for corona fines and road fines. There, it is even possible to pay by a QR-code in the email you receive in your e-box or a QR-code in your letter. It is noted that 93% of road fines are paid. The easier people have to pay, the faster they pay. This experience makes it possible to better support the clerks in the transformation of well-defined work processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u61	Mr. Minister, I thought I'd guess a bit of a surprise in your house, not because you wouldn't have been informed, but because it's been so long... it's 2021! There are other means of payment and staff are at risk because, if I hear your answer correctly, the accompaniment for the transfer of these sums is not necessarily secure everywhere. You're talking about a pilot experiment. If I can paraphrase your remarks, you'll have to use the turbo to quickly solve this problem. You refer to the freedom of payment in the choice of payment method. That's right. In some situations, however, administrations impose a method of payment on persons who have to make a payment. I think that for the safety of the staff working at the transplants, but also for the ease of cash flow, it would be high time for terminals to be installed everywhere, beyond the pilot experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u62	Minister, I often refer here to the fate of the Verviers courthouse. We've discussed it a lot, and I've worked very well with your firm. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the excellent work of your collaborators. However, last week, it was with a pinch in the heart that the Vervietois, very attached to their rich architectural heritage, found that the dismantling of the roof of the building had begun. The deconstruction was finally made possible, the Régie having obtained on 11 June last, the expected permit of the Walloon Region for phase 3 of the construction site. I will soon ask your colleague in charge of the Régie about this. It seems that this operation has become indispensable for security reasons; I myself have visited the building and can attest to the difficult situation from a security point of view. However, this operation raises concerns about the reality of future reconstruction and more broadly the maintenance of a strong justice pole in the woolly city. As such, we know that this issue is conditional on the completion of the general programme of the needs of Verviers' justice. When I called you last January, you told me that this was being refined on the basis of contacts with the competent judicial services and that it would then be sent for advice to the Inspectorate of Finance and finally forwarded to the Régie. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Is the overall needs agenda now complete? Have you received comments from the Finance Inspectorate? Is it possible to obtain the finalized document? Could you also take stock of the realization of the masterplan of all the judicial buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u63	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your questions. With regard to your first question, the draft general programme of needs was submitted to the Régie des Bâtiments with a double request: first, the search for suitable sites to be able to meet the needs as reflected in this programme, either as a temporary site pending the renovation of the current courthouse and the annexes; or as a permanent site to house all the judicial services in Verviers; second, a request for a budget analysis with comparison of the two scenarios. The general programme of needs has been submitted to the Régie des Bâtiments and is therefore ready. It will be submitted to the Inspectorate of Finance based on the responses provided by the Régie. On your second question, the masterplan is being developed in consultation with the colleges of courts and tribunals, on the one hand, and the public prosecutor's office, on the other. It will be finalized again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u64	Minister, thank you for these answers. As I said in my question, I was involved in the discussions on this reflection with the services of Justice, the Régie des Bâtiments, your firm, and the communal services. For a long time, she's been running very hard in circles. I don't think I can be contradicted about that. I think that it is absolutely necessary to coordinate properly the reflection between, on the one hand, the justice services and, on the other hand, the Régie des Bâtiments. And when I say the justice services, it is understood at the local and federal level. Because there is sometimes a form of dissonance, of discordance between points of view. It is therefore very difficult to make the reflection converge towards a solution. I believe that the starting point must be the maintenance absolutely of a strong justice service in Verviers. And from there, there is the question of the preservation of the heritage (the current Palace of Justice) and the future of the infrastructures, either, on the basis of a temporary site, with a view to the construction of a new courthouse, perspective that you did not mention, - and I have emphasized it well - or, indeed, on an existing site, but which, obviously, the actors have difficulty finding. I still feel like we're turning a little bit in circles and it's going to have to come up with a very concrete solution at some point. Of course, I remain at my disposal to help, to help if I can be useful. But I see that time is passing, and obviously we still can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u65	Question No 55019529C by Mr Boukili is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u66	Madam President, first of all, I would like to apologize to the minister and to the committee. I was held in plenary in a debate on the Pandemic Law. I wanted to ask my question. Minister, the Beaulieu case is a case of fraud that beats every record: 30 years of investigations and procedures. Fraud for hundreds of millions of euros, since the 1970s. We learn from the press that after a first transaction of 50 million euros concluded in the past, a new one of the same amount took place in complete discretion, two weeks ago. Suspects, who include descendants of the rich De Clerck family, will therefore avoid jail and even prosecution. It's still a great deal for repeat financial offenders who have stood out in this area for decades. I've asked you many times about the extended criminal transaction. You told me you wanted to evaluate him. Meanwhile, the facts follow on and are similar. They show us the reality of class justice in our country. Mr. Minister, does it seem to you normal for this kind of transaction to be learned in the press, which also specifies the discretion with which the agreement was concluded? What is the status of the promised evaluation of the expanded criminal transaction? Are there any guidelines related to the multi-recidivist nature of suspects in the granting of a criminal transaction? Is this criterion taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u67	As Minister of Justice, I will not comment on an individual file. It is a matter of respect for the separation of powers, which is a fundamental principle in our democracy. I can only note that on 24 June the Brussels Chamber of Indictments approved the agreement in a judgment, as prescribed by law. I'm sure the crime doesn't have to pay. That is why we need a judicial system and strong police forces to carry out the complex cases of financial and tax fraud, organized within a reasonable time, without the statute of limitations hovering at every turn, because that is unacceptable. We also need a system that ensures the effective enforcement of sentences. Fines and confiscations handed down by the judge must not remain a dead letter, because this too is unacceptable. These are the ambitions with which the government started and that is what I am implementing. Two weeks ago, I announced an ambitious investment plan for justice. The budget is rising from €2 billion to €2.5 billion. The fight against financial and tax fraud is an important element. Next year, we will appoint 60 additional specialized and well-trained staff from the public prosecutor's offices and courts. Magistrates specializing in the enforcement of sentences will apply the principle of following the money, i.e. they will attack criminal profiles hidden behind financially obscure constructions. Furthermore, my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem has approved an ambitious action plan in the fight against tax and social fraud. More tax officials will be deployed for this purpose. Justice will make its contribution. We are improving cooperation between the police, the prosecution and the tax administration. The evaluation of expanded transactions is also part of this approach. I have instructed the College of Attorneys General, which is responsible for prosecution policy in our country, to examine these regulations closely, as provided for in the government agreement. Of course, it does not make sense to say that criminal transactions are a palliative measure for a judicial system and an understaffed police force, which would not be able to deal effectively with complex forms of fraud. Strengthening the staff of justice is one thing, but we must also dare to criticize the traditional way of investigating and prosecuting. There are conceivable alternatives to the traditional investigation, an investigation that is brought before a criminal judge only when all possible crimes and perpetrators have been thoroughly examined. These surveys take a long time and do not produce the desired result. Citizens are counting on us to ensure that in the fight against financial and tax fraud, justice raises the glove to track down and punish fraud better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u68	Minister, I expected you to tell me that you are not commenting on individual files. I would remind you that in this case, this is the prosecutor's office, which is subject to your criminal policy directives, which propose and negotiate criminal transactions. You say you're mobilizing officials to fight fraud! But what is the point of investigating fraud if, after that, they can get out of it through a criminal transaction? It is a matter of political choice, Minister. Our position is clear. We have tabled a bill to abolish the criminal transaction because it both encourages financial crime and makes the state lose money. What is quite significant is that today the same company UBS (which paid a criminal transaction of 50 million for a fraud of several billions) in France had a trial and was sentenced to 3.7 billion fine (this amount would do our justice good!), plus 800 million damages! That, Minister, is all we lose by playing the game of white-collar criminals and working with them through criminal transactions to prevent them from being in prison and from paying fines. It's class justice and that justice, people are sick of it. They want justice to do their job and to deal with white-collar criminals, this justice doesn't do its job. This justice is under your guidance. At some point, we have to take a stand on criminal transactions. Our position is clear: we are against, we will never support such a class measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic534x.u69	There were three more questions, but we have not heard from the authors, so we can close the sitting.
