ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the high telecom bill is increasingly affecting the family budget. Telecom and Internet services are much more expensive in Belgium than in our neighbouring countries, and rising inflation is further increasing. You assume that the arrival of a fourth telecom player will have a beneficial effect. I have already asked you about this in the past. I do not think it is really certain that it will have the expected effect on the telecom bill. What steps will you take to bring Internet and telecom subscriptions to the same level as those in neighbouring countries? For low incomes, you provide for a review of the social telecoms tariff. Can you indicate how many people are currently using that social rate? What will be the impact of these revisions on the rate that will eventually have to be paid? What additional initiatives do you plan to ensure affordable internet and telecommunications for the middle class? The telecom operators like to offer services in bundles or packs. This obviously makes it difficult for users to compare the rates of the different operators. What do you think of the idea of obliging telecom providers to offer a basic bundle? That bundle is then comparable, which makes the price easy to compare. In many municipalities there is a tax on pylons or cell towers. How big is the impact of such a tax on telecom billing? It is ultimately passed on to the final consumer. Do you think it is necessary to phase out such taxes so that telecom prices can be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u2	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Orange recently announced that it would increase its rates by January 2022: 2 euros more per month for fixed internet and 3 euros per month for fixed internet and digital television. Orange pretext to be under pressure because of the cost of renting the Telenet network in Flanders and VOO in Wallonia. I find this argument surprising; we are not talking about an SME that struggles to maintain financial balance, but about a company that achieved five billion net profits in 2020. In addition, we have learned in recent weeks that Orange was going to buy VOO. The rental cost will therefore logically disappear on the Walloon side. Rather, it is felt that these price increases are only in line with Proximus and Telenet's trade policies, which also increase their tariffs annually by 3 to 4%. Thus, the fable of competition that lowers prices thanks to a challenger company in the interests of consumers again takes lead in the wing. I know you're dreaming of a fourth player coming to the Belgian market to fuel this competition. On the other hand, Ramon Fernandez, the financial director of Orange, believes that a consolidation of the sector in France will be inevitable and that the number of operators will have to increase from four to three. It tells us very honestly that competition leads to economic concentration and the formation of an oligopoly to the detriment of consumers who then see prices rise. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, since private companies can no longer be trusted to guarantee low prices, are you considering taking policy measures to limit price increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, Mr Gilissen, Monsieur D'Amico, I shall begin with questions from Mr Gilissen and Mr D'Amico. I would like to remind you that the prices paid by consumers for telecommunications services can be freely determined by suppliers. The government does not intervene a priori and cannot intervene when an operator determines the price of a new service or changes the price of an existing service. In principle, the government cannot intervene directly in the retail market. However, according to the European regulatory framework, the regulator, in this case the BIPT, may impose certain obligations on operators with a strong dominant position in the wholesale markets. The BIPT has done so, for example by obliging Proximus, VOO and Telenet to open their network to competitors. For example, Orange and edpnet could enter the fixed market through the use of regulated fixed networks. These alternative operators often offer lower prices than the dominant operators. This price competition therefore creates new products for the dominant players, such as Scarlet at Proximus and Zuny van VOO. The BIPT analyses have shown that there are large differences between the cheapest and the most expensive offers on the market, which should encourage consumers to compare prices regularly. Various measures have been taken to this end. First, consumers can use the price comparison of the BIPT via the website bestrate.be. The telecoms law also obliges telecom providers to charge consumers the cheapest price annually, taking into account their usage patterns. That should alert customers to price fluctuations. The publication of that tool will be further addressed in 2022. We have recently introduced provisions on this in the telecoms law to offer this more clearly to the customer than is the case today. Secondly, there are cheaper alternatives on the market, but consumers often remain stuck in more expensive bundles for too long. Through the easyswitch procedure the consumer can change from fixed operator in a simple way. In this respect, too, we have provided for commissions in the telecommunications law which has just been adopted. Third, the IBPT has also developed a data portal accessible via www.bipt-data.be. Different tools are used to guide consumers in their choices and to inform them of products and technologies available on the market. You can find the coverage of the networks on Belgian territory, several indicators of the quality of the experience in the Belgian mobile networks, the rate of calls having received a response from the helpdesk in two minutes, as well as statistics on complaints and breakdowns. Fourthly, the next auction of frequencies will indeed give a candidate the opportunity to enter the mobile telephony market. This could lead to increased competition with the prices offered by existing operators. 5G will promote the supply of Internet products similar to fixed debit and thus allow competition to the fixed market. This is interesting from the point of view of competition and prices since this technique will help to dispel the distinction between the latter and the mobile market. The IBPT shall regularly examine the degree of competition in the market and may, if necessary, adapt the obligations imposed on powerful operators on the market. Moreover, a new market analysis is expected in principle by 2023. As far as the social tariff is concerned, figures show that the number of families using it is falling every year. In 2017, they were 237.000 families, in 2021 they were 209.000 families. Why is that? The BIPT carries out checks every two years to verify that the beneficiaries still fulfil the legal conditions for obtaining the social tariff. You will understand why we want to intervene in this: there is a lot of non-take-up. Those are the people who are entitled to the social tariff, but do not find the way and need to be helped. Every two years, BIPT takes out the people who are no longer eligible. The influx of people who are eligible is much more difficult. That is why we are providing for a review of this mechanism, as you know. At present, the social telecommunications tariff is granted to persons who fulfil certain conditions laid down by law. For example, over sixty-five people can exercise this right if they meet certain income and social conditions. This means, however, that the conditions for granting the social tariff are not linked to the level of retail tariffs. It would be very difficult to do that. In any case, we do not have the information to establish a direct link between the fluctuation of social tariff applications and the fluctuations in retail prices. For this reason, we have opted for another proposal for reform which you know by now and which is currently in public consultation, with the aim of automating the social rate for fixed subscriptions. At present, persons wishing to obtain the social tariff must apply. If our proposal for reform can be implemented, the beneficiaries of the social tariff will no longer have to take steps to obtain the social tariff, as the tariff discount will be applied directly to the invoice. We strongly suspect that the number of beneficiaries is actually more than three times higher than the number of people currently using them. Mr Gilissen, you have added an element to your question about the pylon taxes. That question has not reached us in advance, but I have no problem answering you. Your question was whether the pylon taxes could affect the prices of telecom subscriptions. The taxes paid by operators for masts, pylons and antennas are of course for the local authorities. That's not a case that we federally regulate at all. It is a local authority to levy taxes. For the three operators together, this amounts to EUR 24 million per year. We also see that the highest contributions in the Brussels-Capital Region are requested. This means, of course, costs for the operators and they are included in their business model, and therefore probably in the prices they pass on to the users. We believe that there could be harmonisation. That is a question from the sector, which I understand very well. In one municipality there is a pylon tax, in the other one there is no pylon tax. This is a particularly difficult situation for operators. But it's the authority of the local authorities. It is difficult for us to regulate this from the federal level. Mrs Depraetere, I have just listed the measures we are going to take. In your question, you refer to Capgemini's study, which indeed predicts a doubling of mobile turnover by 2040. However, it is considered that this growth can mainly be found in the objects market. This includes the IOT, the internet or things, self-driving cars, smart cities, industrial applications, etc. That means that this is really the B2B segment of the telecoms market. It is suspected that the consumer market will rather remain stable. The B2B market will evolve rapidly and strongly, with the result that new business models will allow operators to retabilitate the investments they have to make to develop the 5G networks. To your second question, on price studies, I can answer that the international price study, as I have already announced in this committee, will be published this year. You'll say we don't have much time left. Well, I've been informed that this is for tomorrow. Tomorrow we will all be able to surf to the BIPT website to discover that study. As far as the national price comparison study is concerned, it will be published in January. That's how I've been informed. As far as a stronger consumer watchdog is concerned, I am absolutely asking for it myself. I intend to strengthen this role of the BIPT, but, as you know, we need additional resources for this to be made available in order to recruit additional staff. It's on my to-do list. I think this is a very important thing. Finally, I also asked the BIPT to include an additional section in the annual report on the checks carried out and the formulation of recommendations for operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u4	Madam Minister, when primary operators open their networks to other secondary operators, compensation must of course be paid. Certain rates apply to this. Those secondary operators are therefore not free to determine their price. Perhaps those rates are a little too high and should be looked at. Every year, therefore, fewer families make use of the social rate. Their number has dropped from 237.000 to 209.000. A lot of people probably won't find their way to those social rates. The revision you mentioned is therefore urgently needed. The automatic allocation of social rates is highly desirable. Indeed, I added my last question on an ad hoc basis, because this issue is being discussed today in our city council. The annual cost for operators is therefore EUR 24 million. That amount is, of course, being passed on. There may be a need for harmonisation between municipalities. We need to look at whether this can reduce telecom billing for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u5	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but, as you will understand, I have not been persuaded by her. You say that there is nothing we can do and that we must allow competition to comply with European rules. That's what you're being blamed for. Competition generates price increases and it is not by using Internet comparators that we will settle this. At the PTB, we believe that legislation is needed to limit prices and counter-current the liberal logics of the European Union. We have seen this again with the price of electricity and the liberalisation of energy. Today, after 15 years of liberalisation, the consumer pays a high price.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u6	Madam Secretary, I am glad to hear that a number of things are still on the agenda. You yourself indicated that there might be a fourth player, who might bring down the prizes. However, this remains uncertain. There is therefore no doubt that it is still necessary to continue to focus on new measures. The social tariff and the new telecoms law are, of course, already steps forward. It is good to hear that other measures, such as price comparisons and increased controls, will continue to be used. I understand that from your words. The extension of the BIPT annual report has been a question of my group for some time now. So that's very positive. If the national price study is published tomorrow, we will of course read it with great interest, especially because I believe that such instruments can make a difference for prices and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vicaire's 55023507C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, a few days ago, the French services of the crackdown on fraud requested the de-listing of the famous e-commerce platform Wish. This means removing the reference in the search engines. In other words, the French will no longer find this sales site via a search engine. The reason for this measure: misleading commercial practices such as price reductions without any economic reality, the promotion of well-known products, some of which are not available on the platform, or the sale of products bearing registered trademark logos which are likely to mislead the consumer. It was also noted that Wish offered dangerous products, particularly for health. For example, chainsaws without protection. Madam Secretary of State, the Minister of Economy in the French government, Bruno Le Maire, said: "either Wish complies with the rules of consumer protection, or we will go further and move from de-reference to the prohibition of the site on French territory." Knowing that Wish is doing exactly the same thing in Belgium, my questions are as follows. What about our country? Has Wish ever been the target of Economic Inspection controls? If so, what were the conclusions? Finally, do you envisage a measure similar to that taken by France to sanction Wish for its misleading commercial practices and the sale of dangerous products? For my part, I am convinced that we must have the courage to impose on these online sales giants our rules of the game and to sanction them by the means that are ours if they do not respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u9	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vicaire, the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate (DGIE) has received a limited number of reports against Wish regarding misleading advertising, the right of withdrawal, in relation to fraud and delivery problems. All these reports are investigated by the DGI. In addition, the DGI also receives and treats European safety alerts for products presenting a serious or serious health risk. In this context, as soon as a European safety alert concerns a dangerous product present on platforms such as Wish or AliExpress, we contact them by asking them to immediately remove the product concerned from the sale. As a general rule, the platforms that have signed the Product Safety Pledge run within two to three working days. With regard to the measures taken by France, it should be pointed out that France does not block the Wish sales platform but de-references it in the main search engines (Google, Bing, etc.).). Currently, the French consumer can still buy on Wish by typing Wish.com's address in their browser. Based on the results of the ongoing investigations, the DGI could consider taking action against the platform. It should be noted that such measures would require the authorization of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It should also be pointed out that the European Union is currently carrying out various joint actions against online platforms by checking, inter alia, the indication of prices and reductions, reimbursement and guarantees, but also the safety of products offered online by having their conformity verified by approved laboratories. Indeed, we cannot effectively combat illegal content posted on platforms established in third States and offering their services in all Member States through disparate measures adopted by each Member State. It is therefore essential to work together at European Union level to achieve strong and uniform rules on the accountability and sanctions of online platforms. To this end, the Digital Services Act (DSA) will provide complementary tools for more effective prosecution of Internet offences. The DSA was approved by a large majority in the European Parliament's Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection last week and will be submitted to the plenary in January. Negotiations with the Member States will begin in the spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer. I'd like to know if Wish signed the Product Safety Pledge. With regard to the Digital Services Act, in the spring of 2022, it will be urgent to transpose this European legislation into Belgian law because customers are getting roughed up. It's not just Wish here, it's also other platforms, as you said. So there is no shortage of work to protect our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u11	Mr President, Mr Gilissen, first of all I would like to stress that influencers must respect the prohibition of unfair commercial practices. This means, among other things, that they are legally obliged to indicate that they are communicating a commercial message. It must be clear that this is about advertising. Additional legal measures are not necessary, but recommendations on influencers seem very useful to me, first of all to guide the influencers themselves in the applicable legislation and thus ensure that the legislation in force is respected. The JEP does not examine files on its own initiative, but participates regularly in monitoring exercises at the request of associations. The JEP is aware of the fact that more influencers are active. He is therefore particularly vigilant in this area. Together with the communication centre and the JEP, we are looking at how more clarity can be provided through recommendations. Commercial practices must always be assessed from the point of view of the average consumer who belongs to the target group to which commercial practices are addressed. For example, it refers explicitly to consumers who, because of their age or credulity, may be particularly susceptible to commercial practice. That is why we must be very careful about this. On the basis of directives, we want to make it clear that an influencer addressing children must make it even more clear that it is indeed about advertising. For example, the use of certain abbreviations which are not so understandable to children will be discouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u13	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Prévot's 55023237C, 55023496C and 55023497C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Febelfin says that, unfortunately, it does not have the data requested on the number of times the automatic bank transfer service has been used over the last five years, broken down by year. The Economic Inspectorate reports that for the years 2018, 2019 and 2021 one complaint was received each time. No figures are available for the years 2017 and 2020. The complaints of 2018 and 2019 were directed against a creditor. The reporters indicated that all direct debit orders were executed and executed correctly, except for one creditor, suggesting that the problems lie with that creditor and not with the bank. The complaint in 2021 concerned the transfer of a mortgage credit. According to Febelfin, there are exceptional problems with late or non-processing of the new account number by creditors with direct debits or by clients of the recurring transfer. So it is not a problem with the banks, but it is a problem with the consumer's payment counterparts. However, any notification to the payment counterparties of the consumer stresses that they are legally obliged to use the new account number from the transfer date. Febelfin will communicate about this on the fourth anniversary of the extended bank transfer service on 1 February 2022 and will call on payment counterparties to fulfil their legal obligation. If the bank transfer is not timely, I recommend that the consumer should first contact the competent department of the new bank and possibly also its creditors if there is a problem there. In addition, the consumer also has the possibility to lodge a complaint with the hotline and/or ombudsfin. The bank transfer service shall consist of the transfer of the payment accounts. A new debit card should also be created when switching to a new current account. However, prior to granting a credit card covered by the provisions of Code VII of the Economic Law Code, additional legal obligations apply, such as the assessment of the customer's repayment capacity. Continuous orders and also memo orders, i.e. transfers with execution date after the bank transfer date, to external accounts are covered by the bank transfer service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, there is only one complaint. Of course, this is not always an indication of the difficulties faced by consumers, because many people are looking for a solution themselves and do not complain. It is not clear to every consumer that the credit card does not 'transfer' with a bank transfer service. In France, for example, there is a Bip&Go system linked to the credit card for toll roads. Because people change banks and the credit card is not taken away, those payments are no longer made and that service is simply stopped. Firstly, consumers should be better informed about the fact that the credit card is not automatically included. Secondly, it must be considered whether this might be possible, taking into account the conditions you mentioned earlier on the creditworthiness of the person in question. Continuous orders to a forward account would be covered by the bank transfer service. I myself have heard that, for example, a continuous pension saving mission was not carried out. Febelfin will communicate about the four-year existence of the bank transfer service. It is important to repeat all the information and to remind the banks themselves of their obligations under this service in order to make it as easy as possible for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u16	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the FPS Economy has finally received 72 loan requests from tour operators. Since the examination of some of the applications is still ongoing, I cannot give an assurance as to their admissibility. I can tell you that the vast majority of them will be approved. The proportion of SMEs and large enterprises can only be determined when we have an overview of all eligible applications. For data protection reasons, I cannot answer any of the questions raised by the organisers who have submitted a loan application. Since the investigation is still ongoing and no final loan agreements have yet been concluded, I cannot give an assurance as to the total amount of loans to be granted. I can tell you that this will amount to a maximum of EUR 19 to 20 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, 72 applications were submitted, but we still have to wait and see how much of them will be declared admissible. You say that the maximum amount involved is between EUR 19 and EUR 20 million, while EUR 210 million was released. In my view, we can only draw one conclusion from this, in particular that the coronavoucherbank has come far too late and that many tour operators have taken up their responsibilities and have already provided the necessary refunds themselves. Unfortunately, the tour operators, due to the lateness and the number within the government, have been helped less than they could have been helped if they had acted more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u18	A few weeks ago there was a commotion about the practices of some suppliers at the end of a contract. For example, consumers, whose annual fixed contract expired, were automatically switched to the new variable price formula but without being apparently informed of it. You indicated that you would have the economic inspection conduct an investigation into these practices. There was also a unilateral increase in advance invoices by certain energy suppliers, even in the case of fixed contracts. The government has already taken the initiative here to ban this practice. What's the status of these files? How many complaints did the Economic Inspectorate receive in total about energy contracts that were amended without notification? What are the results of the investigation into the imposed switch from a fixed to a variable contract? How many energy suppliers were guilty of such practices? Was that stopped in the meantime? In the meantime, was all consumers to whom an increased advance invoice was imposed given the opportunity to refuse it and therefore to reduce it again? Was the increase already collected credited immediately? If not, what about the consumers of the Flemish Energy Supplier who were unlawfully charged an increased advance bill, now that this energy supplier is bankrupt and most likely will not be able to repay the excess advances?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u19	Since September, the Economic Inspectorate has received 35 notifications from consumers who consider that they have not been properly informed about the change in their tariff formula when their contract is extended by their energy suppliers. These energy suppliers offered consumers a formula with a variable price instead of a fixed price. The notifications relate to three different suppliers who are currently no longer offering fixed-price contracts. The investigation by the Economic Inspectorate is still ongoing. A distinction should be made between suppliers who have signed the agreement on consumers in the free electricity and gas markets and suppliers who have not. Those who have signed the contract must not only inform the consumer properly about the characteristics of the new contract they are proposing, but also request the express consent of the consumer to the new contract. In the context of variable rate contracts, most suppliers have raised interim invoices or asked their customers to increase their interim advance. For this type of contract, this increase should prevent consumers from facing an unaffordable annual final bill. The Economic Inspectorate is not aware of suppliers who would have credited their customers part of this increase. In recent months, before going bankrupt, the Flemish Energy Supplier has only offered variable-price contracts. The notifications received by the Economic Inspectorate relate only to increases in the advance payment for this type of contract. In view of the rising market prices, it seemed logical that this company should ask its customers to increase the advance payments. The bankruptcy of this supplier may result in consumers not recovering or only partially recovering the overpaid amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u20	It is remarkable that if an energy supplier had charged a higher advance against the will of the consumer, the difference would not have been credited. He's lost his money, so to speak. That will be settled at the end of the account, but some people do need it too much every month. Questions can still be asked, just like what happened to the Flemish Energy Supplier. If those advances were raised there, those people would be pretty sure to lose their money after the firm went bankrupt. These are unfortunate things and we need to consider how such problems could be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u21	Mrs Van Bossuyt, together with my fellow Minister Dermagne, we are finalising a draft law aimed at reassuring the insurance sector and making it possible for tour operators to be covered by compulsory insolvency insurance so that they can continue their activities. This was prepared in consultation with the National Bank. The main aim of the draft law is to create a partnership between the private sector and the public sector. It is proposed to set a ceiling. Under this ceiling, the insurance undertaking shall bear the full amount of compensation. Above this ceiling, the State would intervene to a percentage of 98% of the surplus of the gross amount of the fees payable by the insurance undertaking. In order to prevent this mechanism from being considered as State aid, it is provided that insurance undertakings pay an annual contribution to the State. Moreover, in order to ensure the effectiveness of travellers' indemnification, the insurance company is obliged to compensate the tour operators insured by it in accordance with the legal and contractual conditions. This before, within the limits laid down in the draft law, bringing an action for subrogation against the State. The broad lines of the draft law have already been submitted to the insurance sector and the package tour operators. Both groups welcomed the idea, and the draft law itself will shortly be submitted to the insurance sector, the current insurers and Assuralia. The current insurers have promised to assess all dossiers on their merits and to ensure maximum package tour operators. Companies that were already less healthy due to the corona crisis are not likely to find insurance, as would have been the case in other circumstances. The new measures will not enter into force until all the conditions applicable to the dating companies can be laid down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I understand that a draft law is being finalised and I will certainly look into it with due attention once the texts are available. I am somewhat concerned about the way in which the travel sector will be insured between 31 December, when insurance will expire, and the period in which the new system will operate. It is a European obligation. Were you thinking about that transition period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u23	Each file will be reviewed. After 31 December, everyone will be insured by the insurers until the new system is in operation before 2022. That's how it's agreed. The cancelled contracts have all been reviewed and will therefore be insured as much as possible. Companies that were not healthy for corona will be difficult to re-insure. Each file will therefore be reviewed. A real effort is being made to re-insure everyone until the new system is in place, but a company that we know in advance is no longer viable will obviously be difficult to secure. Meanwhile, a solution is being sought for all other companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u24	Mrs Van Bossuyt, on the occasion of my bilateral discussion with European Commissioner Didier Reynders, among other things, we discussed the need for a revision of the package travel directive. In doing so, the Commissioner indicated that it is absolutely the intention to maintain the current level of consumer protection. I indicated that the corona crisis has shown that consideration should be given to the protection against insolvency in the tour operators. Commissioner Reynders confirmed that. A system which may be adapted must ensure that consumer confidence is strengthened. The Commissioner indicated that he is not against a system of vouchers, as far as a voluntary system is concerned. If there is pressure to use the vouchers, it has an impact on insolvency. If there is real protection against insolvency, it is less difficult for consumers to accept vouchers. I have called for the package travel scheme to be extended and for better insolvency protection to be provided if only a flight is purchased. It should also be examined whether it is possible to provide for a B2B scheme. The problem facing tour operators is that the money is blocked by third parties. The Commissioner mentioned that the Passenger Rights Directive applies if only flights are purchased, the B2B ratio should rather be adapted in a separate instrument. The package travel directive focuses only on the B2C ratio. An initiative could be taken under the Belgian Presidency in this area. There will probably be two different European proposals, one on vouchers and one on insolvency. In this respect, Belgium believes that vouchers should be voluntary in normal times, but that in the context of a system crisis, such as a pandemic or a volcano eruption, consideration should be given to whether a voluntary system is still appropriate. A good balance between businesses and consumers is always important. In any case, consumer confidence must be created.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, with regard to B2B, it is certainly not an unnecessary luxury to look at a solution. After all, it is often about a lot of money that travel agents advance, for example at hotels abroad, to make the necessary reservations for customers. In the past summer and during the pandemic in general, we have often experienced that travel agencies found that there was no problem if traveling in the country of destination was allowed, but if it was not allowed for our country. The money wasn't paid back. I think it is important to look at what initiatives can be taken there. I understand that insolvency insurance is being looked at at at European level and the way in which this issue could be dealt with. That would indeed be very welcome. I do have questions with the vouchers. If I understood correctly, a compulsory voucher system would be chosen in Belgium in the event of force majeure. You gave an example of a volcanic eruption. What do you mean "obligatory"? If the consumer does not use the voucher, can he not choose a refund? The freedom of consumers seems to me to be important in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u26	The European Commission's starting point is that the voucher system should be voluntary. In March 2020, in full pandemic, a solution had to be found quickly for travel agencies, for those trips that did not go on. That is why my predecessor has created the system of compulsory vouchers. If we had allowed all travellers to be reimbursed, the whole system would have collapsed. We believe that it should be possible, in very exceptional circumstances, to set up a temporary system of vouchers which obliges the traveller to accept that voucher, after which one could be reimbursed within a reasonable period of time. This would only apply in very exceptional circumstances and should certainly not be the basic rule. I agree 100% with the EU's statement that the voucher system should be voluntary. In very exceptional circumstances, when it comes to maintaining a sector, such as the travel sector in March 2020, we believe that a system of obligation should be considered. Of course, the consumer must always be protected. We have now developed a system. With the new insolvency insurance, this will become a different system in the future. An obligation, yes, but in very exceptional circumstances to safeguard the sector and to support the small, local travel agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u27	That's obvious. I'd have misunderstood. However, I believe that all the modalities should fit together so that we do not end up in the same situation again with the refunds that are long overdue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u28	This question concerns the new consumer agreement, which consists of a number of voluntary agreements between energy suppliers in addition to legal obligations. For example, it lays down provisions on transparency, distance selling, energy supplier change, etc. Because the energy market is constantly changing, it is also necessary for good consumer protection to be assessed and adapted to the new circumstances and the assessments set out in the government agreement to make the energy market even more accessible. This takes into account the opportunities for better and more efficient consumer protection, the reduction of administrative burdens, the possibility of extending protection to SMEs and the application of the consumer agreement to new energy market actors. That exercise is running now. In a first phase, a broad survey was organised, together with Minister of Economy Dermagne and Minister of Energy Van der Straeten, to examine the issues where the current consumer agreement should be adapted. The survey was sent to various consumer organisations, representatives of the energy sector and energy suppliers, as well as to the Ombudsman for Energy, the new actors in the energy market and the representatives of entrepreneurs. We have already received all the results of that survey and, together with colleagues, we will examine the conclusions in the first months of 2022 to identify the concrete actions and points of improvement. The implementation of such an analysis is complex as, in the meantime, certain elements of the consumer agreement have been laid down by law. In addition, we are examining which new players should apply the consumer agreement, to whom it should be extended further and to what types of actions, such as group purchases, it applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, this needs to be followed up further. Do you have any idea of the timetable for the new consumer agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u30	Mrs Van Bossuyt, it would be before spring, but I have no further information. We'll be sure to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u31	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the obligation to inform the consumer correctly rests with the seller. Unfortunately, the information obligations imposed on consumers by European directives on companies do not apply to companies located outside the European Union. From 1 July 2021, consumers will have to pay VAT for all goods they import into the EU. In addition to VAT, import duties are also payable if the purchase amount is 150 euros or more. As you point out, there is a one-stop shop for the import of goods, the IOSS. This means that when the seller is registered, the consumer will not face unforeseen tax or customs costs if those goods come from outside the EU, because they are settled through the one-stop shop system. In other words, the consumer will only have to pay additional costs if the seller is not registered with the one-stop shop. It is correct that the carrier can itself determine the costs to be charged for the completion of the customs formalities. It does not fall within my competence to take measures applicable to companies outside the EU. For this, I must refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for collecting VAT and customs duties. As far as my powers are concerned, the only way we can do this is to provide the best possible information to consumers who want to buy goods outside the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic647x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, the information is really important for consumers, who need to know that they will now also have to pay VAT on goods below a certain amount. As far as compensation is concerned, I will certainly refer this to your colleague. One can choose for oneself how high the remuneration will be. It is therefore often the parcel delivery agent who informs the person concerned that he still has to pay a certain amount extra. As a result, many people are faced with unpleasant surprises. So we need to look carefully at how this can be avoided. Certain criteria or tariff classifications should nevertheless be laid down for the fees charged. This gives consumers an idea of the possible level of compensation and does not present them with unpleasant surprises.
