ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u1	Hello everyone, for our traditional current affairs debate on covid, which today includes a fairly low number, although important, of 46 questions. We will use the method of speaking by group. Mrs Farih and Mrs Merckx are sorry. Their questions have therefore become without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u2	I shall give the floor immediately to the various groups and suggest that you give each other the floor. Groups with three members have eight minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I would like to be brief and refer to the questions as they have been put in writing under Nos. 55018073C, 55018233C, 55018367C, and 55018369C. One of those questions deals with the Coronalert app. I would have liked to have had your opinion on this: to what extent will the app still play a role, especially now that there is more relaxation? Does the app have any added value? If so, what will be done to promote the app more? Do you have an idea of the number of active users of the app right now? Personally, I have the impression that it is still being used very little. At the introduction last fall, I heard from doctors that they found the app particularly unusable. In the meantime, has there been a check-up? If so, what are the results? Is more user-friendliness based on these possible results?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u4	Minister, I may not have to repeat to you that I am mainly following up on the files relating to the caregivers. Colleagues do that for the other professions. I noticed that the Council of Ministers approved, as envisaged, the compensation premium for home nursing protective equipment at the end of May. I have the following questions. How long before they get paid? What steps are to be taken now? Is the premium also granted retroactively? How will you compensate for the delay? Those are the only questions I would like an answer to today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u5	Mr Minister, I refer to my questions 55017911C, 55018024C, 55018025C, 55018026C, 55018146C, 55018148C, 55018150C, 55018157C, 55018278C, 55018281C? I would like to clarify a few more questions. How are the discussions with the Association for Psychologists around the convention going in the context of the necessary additional assistance for the support of young people as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic? Is there any progress? What perspectives can you give to young people? Today, many young citizens are at risk of falling out of the vaccination boat before the summer comes. That will certainly have implications for their summer perspective. How will you respond to this in terms of psychological guidance? Are you looking for alternatives for the vaccinations yourself? Have you had any conversations with manufacturers other than the current ones? Will you step out of your comfort zone and bring vaccines for the youth to our country? I read in the press that you're looking for a solution to the PCR tests. Any person who has not been vaccinated and still wants to leave on a journey must be able to submit the results of an PCR test. It costs about 37 euros today. To what extent will you provide compensation for those who have not yet had a chance of being vaccinated? Or will you make the test completely free? Or don't pay them back at all? In short, which slope will you walk? I would also have liked to discuss the contract with the company Medista. That ended at the end of May. Is there a new contract today? If so, how much euro? How many candidates were there? Is the previous contract being evaluated? As far as the vaccination campaign is concerned, there are delivery problems today and we do not yet know whether we will get enough vaccines. At the same time, our virologists indicate that a 70% vaccination rate is unlikely to be sufficient given the risk of the variants, such as the Indian and the British. We can now start to worry about the Vietnamese variant. Given the much lower vaccination rate in Brussels and Wallonia, how will you achieve a vaccination rate of 90%? What steps will you take to achieve this? Do you see that percentage feasible at all? Another concern is the fact that 30s, 40s and 50s who have received one shot can leave on a journey. How will you ensure that they will certainly come for their second shot? For protection against variants, the second needle is an important point of attention. I would have liked to have heard from you how many speed tests our companies have requested to date. I have seen that you have entered additional funds in the budget. How many Johnson & Johnson vaccines are you expecting? The chairman of the task force is talking about 900,000 vaccines, but it could also be half of them. Do you have a visual on that today? Do you have any idea of the progress of the interim proceedings between the European Commission and AstraZeneca? I have also tabled a question on the problem of care providers on parental leave who come to help in the vaccination villages. It appears that if they help for one day at the vaccination centre, they would lose their right to parental leave throughout the year. That's a shame, especially with the summer in sight. As all men and women who want to help in a vaccination centre will be absolutely necessary, a solution must be sought. I would also like to have heard from you about the state of play in the negotiations in the IMC on the price per vaccinee. What price will you pay? Any progress in the negotiations? Apparently, you have allocated EUR 80 million to pay out to the Länder for the vaccines and for the doctors accompanying the vaccinations. What price and what baremas do you use in this respect? Is it the same baremas for Flanders as for Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u6	Minister, my question is also about the Coronalert app. A lot has been said and written about that app. There has also been a lot of criticism. However, such an app can be very effective to prevent infections. A study by the University of Oxford and the Alan Turing Institute estimated that the British COVID-19 app would have prevented between 4,200 and 8,700 deaths in the last three months of last year. If we extrapolate these figures, according to Professor Bart Perneel's estimate, Coronalert would have prevented a hundred deaths in Belgium. That was in an article in De Standaard of May 20th. It was an interesting contribution, because the benefits and disadvantages of the Coronalert app were discussed. It was mentioned as an advantage that the app offers very good guarantees for privacy, which has been a lot to do about it. However, there are also a number of disadvantages. The app automatically stores data. People don't have to watch the app actively for that and then it looks like that app isn't doing anything at all. This has been done by providing all kinds of information on the number of infections, so that people can take a look at them from time to time. Corona disease rates are also included. I also installed the app and I have to admit that I rarely open it. However, I recently saw that there are some interesting tools in it, for example a link to the Passenger Location Form and a link to the reserve list for vaccinations. These are positive aspects. That article also lists a number of other disadvantages. Many people would have a negative user experience, so they no longer want to use the app. For example, some did not see the result of a test, or they found it disturbing that the app absorbed a lot of battery power from their smartphone. It would also be quite a hassle to link a negative test result, causing people to lose their motivation to use the app. Another problem that was underestimated when developing the app is that the general practitioners are not fully involved in the story. Entering a code of 17 digits to match a test to the app is time-consuming and doesn't make the system really user-friendly for doctors. As a result, general practitioners would have encouraged their patients far too little to use the app. An evaluation is therefore necessary, especially as the app may play a major role again in the coming months. After all, we will have more contacts with the relaxations. We will also meet people we don't know, for example in a restaurant or at a reception. We will not be able to pass those contacts on to the contact tracing, which could make the app useful again. Minister, I have a few questions about this. What do you think of the criticism of the app? How do you estimate the utility of the app in the coming months? Are you going to ensure that people are encouraged to install and use the app? The protection of privacy ensures that the data can only be used and evaluated in a limited manner. How can one determine to what extent the app actually contributes to reducing the level of infection? It is possible to obtain general data, for example on the number of users and the tests, but really thorough analyses are not possible. What's your point of view? How are you going to get the GPs and the other healthcare providers of the first line into the story? How will you sensitise them to use the app more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u7	Minister, my first question concerns the vaccination of prisoners in prisons. Our prisons have been classified as high-risk, but they seem to be struggling to ensure that prisoners are vaccinated. Given the specific nature of prisons in terms of risks, what is the status of the inmate vaccination campaign to date? Is the situation similar in the different regions of the country? What about immunization in prisons? Are there vaccine priorities in the inmate categories? Are there any changes planned in this framework, given the situation? My second question concerns the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. A woman under the age of 40 recently died of thrombosis a few days after receiving an injection of this vaccine. Pending the conclusions of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) on this tragic incident, Belgium has decided to temporarily suspend the administration of this vaccine to those under 41 years of age, except for vulnerable audiences such as homeless people or migrants. Minister, has the EMA given you its conclusions on this matter? If the link between vaccine and thrombosis is known, what action will you take for this vaccine? Why did you decide to continue to give this vaccine to the public says precarious, even if people are under 41 years of age? Some field associations have decided not to comply with this measure. Do you understand this decision? Minister, while some people have not yet received their first dose of vaccine, the issue of the administration of a complementary dose already arises, as vaccines do not immunize us indefinitely against covid-19. What information is available to date on this additional dose according to the different vaccines approved? Will it be necessary to ensure complete protection against covid-19 or should recurrent vaccination such as influenza be considered? Would this supplement be intended for everyone or only for the most vulnerable people? I come to my fourth question. Recently, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) informed us that a new treatment for patients infected with coronavirus had been approved by ministerial order. The intermediate results of the clinical studies have indeed shown that this treatment significantly reduces the viral load of coronavirus, i.e. its concentration in the body. Minister, how does this treatment work and how is it used? How effective is this? For which patients is it recommended? When will Belgium start using this treatment to treat people with covid? My last question concerns the testing of travellers. We know today that the European Covid Certificate will come into effect in our country by 1 July at the latest and that it will prove that we are being vaccinated, that we are being immunised after contamination in the last six months or that we have been tested negative. However, if immunized persons are not required to take PCR tests to go on vacation, this will be the case for all other travellers. Of course, this will require great effort in terms of organization and logistics. Minister, how will the testing be organised for travellers? With this new platform bis, we will receive the guarantee that we will be able to deploy an important testing system, while avoiding the problems of the past: queues in front of testing centres, delays in obtaining results, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What are our current capabilities and how far do you think it will be necessary to deploy them to meet this future demand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u8	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written question. 55017905C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u9	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written questions. 55017845C and 55017846C. I have two other questions. My first question concerns the side effects of vaccines. On 26 May 2021, we received the tragic news that a young woman died in our country as a result of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia following vaccination with Johnson & Johnson's covid vaccine. In addition, the American CDC has recently investigated several cases of myocardiitis in young people following vaccination with a mRNA vaccine. This occurred mainly in men after a second dose and four days after vaccination. 62 cases of myocardiitis would be investigated in Israel. I have the following questions, Minister. Have cases of myocardiitis been known in Belgium after vaccination? Is it an option not to give women Johnson & Johnson or AstraZeneca vaccine, as the serious side effects mainly affect women with these vaccines? Is it also possible to stop giving men mRNA vaccine when myocardiitis can occur in young men? Are you aware of any other serious side effects after vaccination? How do you estimate the reporting of side effects? Is there an understatement or an overestimate? How do you explain the individual benefit-risk ratio for perfectly healthy young people who have a very low risk of death due to COVID-19, but also have a very low risk of death after vaccination? Is it justified to use an innovative vaccine that is safe, but whose long-term effects are unprecedented, massively for our young people? That fits perfectly with my second question on vaccination of under-18-year-olds. As vaccination is being stepped up, young people are already being vaccinated. The first group would be the 16- and 17-year-olds, but later also the min16-year-olds would be eligible. This strategy aims to achieve group immunity and thus defeat the virus. I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Has there already been sufficient and thorough research into the possible long-term consequences for the vaccination of our young people? If so, what research is it about? If not, is it not very premature to inoculate our young people with these vaccines? Isn't it better for our young people, who don't really get sick from COVID-19, to let their own immune system do its job? Why is there only the acquisition of group immunity by vaccination today and does the immune system itself get out of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u10	Minister, I want to ask you about the cost of mandatory testing and the future covid vaccination campaign next fall. With regard to the cost of compulsory testing, I asked you during our last debate on this subject, when you said that you were opposed to a reduction, in particular, in participation in cultural activities. If you hadn't answered me clearly, you seemed less categorical. So I'm asking you the question again. For months, we have known that we will have to do many tests in order to return to a more normal life. I have certainly had to ask you more than ten times about this issue. In concrete terms, free or almost free testing is required, not only for travel and travel - a subject already discussed at European level - but also for gatherings and events in our country (sports or cultural participation). The Bioethics Committee clearly advocates better accessibility as well. Let's be clear! Fifty euros per test is too much! Freedom seems essential to me regardless of age and certainly for the three summer months that open up to us, after more than a year of acute crisis and multiple restrictions imposed on all. This would probably be more productive, much less discriminating, and would also allow for a positive and not just binding message. Precisely, the European digital certificate decided by the states is free but not the tests it incorporates for travel. So what are the decisions taken by the federal government and the federated entities regarding its use for cultural, sporting, and event activities? What decision was made by the federal and federal entities on the cost of mandatory testing? Do you intend to make the mandatory PCR tests free and what is the place of antigenic tests and autotests in this context? With regard to vaccination, briefly, I would like information on the preparations for the introduction of vaccination campaigns which will start very quickly after the summer. Flu doses are under negotiation. There is the question of the third covid dose and you told me that you were waiting for advice from the Superior Council of Health, doctors, the Federal Council of Nursing Art, also concerning the contribution of pharmacists. Could you already tell me, at the very least, what the work schedule is and if you anticipate decisions and planning by vaccine, by patient's age, by period, given this winter, which promises to be exceptional in terms of vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I am referring to my question No. 55018343C, which deals with the second dose of the vaccine for people who have already been infected with covid-19 and who have a high level of antibodies. I noted that the Higher Council of Health recommended maintaining both doses, but probably more for reasons of practical organization of vaccines than for a public health issue. However, in other countries such as France, the High Health Authority issued an opinion which dealt strictly with public health. This authority recommends that a second dose should not be administered when the person is already carrying an antibody level following contamination. Therefore, Minister, is it not appropriate to reconsider this choice and ask once again the Higher Council of Health to decide only on the question of public health, and not on the organisation of vaccination? For example, we could follow the opinion of Science magazine, which is a serious review and recommends only one dose, which would have a booster effect in order to increase the level of antibodies and improve the effectiveness of the various variants. Why does Belgium go the opposite of most major European countries, be it Italy, Spain, Germany or France? What is the impact of this decision, in particular on the use of the European "except-driving" certificate for those who would receive the certificate with one or two doses? The question remains open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u12	CD&V is not represented today. I will put my question on behalf of PVDA at the end, as is customary for the President. Open Vld is not represented either. Mrs Jiroflée has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the pandemic in our country is deteriorating. There are less than 500 people on intensive care, half of the adult Belgians have already received a first shot and in Flanders four out of five people with an underlying condition have already received a first shot. All this is positive, but there is one aspect of this crisis that worries me, and that is vaccination. I hear I'm not the only one. There are delivery problems at Johnson & Johnson, which could lead to delays, and there is the age limitation to 41-plussers for Johnson & Johnson, which can also mean delay. Especially for young people, the first shot is likely to fall in the middle of the holiday, which is not a pleasant prospect. The fact that we would all get a first shot on 11 July, as Minister Beke predicted, does not seem feasible at all. Moreover, vaccination readiness varies enormously from region to region. The last thing we read was that people under 41 years of age would be left to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson. So the last week is chaos trump card and the vaccination campaign seems to be going all over the place. I would therefore like to ask you a very simple question. Could you clarify something? What are the objectives of the ongoing vaccination campaign? In what way do you think they can be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to mention vaccination. The first is the distribution of vaccination, which is not homogeneous in our country. We see it in Brussels but also in a series of regions around Liège, Charleroi, Mons, in the Borinage. This is clearly related to people suffering from isolation, insecurity or fragility. What is the strategy of different governments to catch up with vaccination in some areas? Secondly, there has been no communication from governments on changing the conditions for Pfizer vaccine storage. They are highly lightened since this vaccine can be stored for a month in an ordinary refrigerator and no longer as a freezing method. However, no official communication has taken place on this subject in Belgium. This is vital and it allows us to move forward because, as I pleaded, a few months ago, general practitioners could participate in the vaccination campaign in their office and in the home. This is all the more important because there is a need for a community campaign for people who are not vaccinated today, especially when they have doubts or difficulties. How do you justify maintaining the Johnson & Johnson vaccine for people under 41 years of age? I have been arguing for a very long time for a single dose of vaccine for patients cured of covid. This has been demonstrated in the literature. The High Health Authority in France has advocated this and other health agencies. I now hear that other colleagues in the majority are joining me. This is still not applicable in Belgium. The logistics argument is, in my opinion, a very bad argument because the majority of people who did the covid know it. A dose would therefore provide a good response, but also avoid some complications since people who have been infected with covid make more complications during the second injection. Minister, a recent study shows that two doses of vaccine are not enough for a number of patients, including immunocompromised patients, such as kidney transplants and dialysis patients. They are particularly at risk of having a very severe covid. A third dose for those who are non-responders therefore seems indispensable. Some countries such as France have already started a third dose for their non-responders in the absence of antibodies after two doses. What in Belgium? It seems to me particularly urgent that this door be opened for such fragile patients. I would also like to go back to the covid variants and especially to the Delta variant which corresponds to the Indian variant. Its exponential evolution can be seen in a number of countries, including the United Kingdom. Minister, I called on you to strengthen the devices. What about it? What are the travel and arrival restrictions? What is the strengthening of tracing and isolation for all countries where this variant circulates significantly? This is a strategic issue for the coming weeks and months. It's urgent! As you know, I voted for an amendment for free testing until people were vaccinated and had access to the vaccine. I hear that today colleagues from the Vivaldi majority join me when they voted against my proposal. I have been arguing that for a long time. This is very important in terms of public health. It is also a matter of fairness for all those who have not yet had access to the vaccine. The lines are moving on the government side. I hope that this can be implemented, despite a few strong statements by party presidents who oppose it. What about the European passport? Can it be used for risk activities in Belgium rather than having to develop a new tool, a new corona pass? In addition, Mr. Chairman, with respect to Questions Nos 55018301C, 55018302C, 55018303C and 55018304C, I refer to my questions as filed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u15	Mr President, I refer to my questions Nos. 550347C to 550351C. This leads me, Minister, to question you about the measures expected during the famous Codeco scheduled this Friday. Two main things are expected: clarification of the recovery protocols for the sectors but also of the management of travel abroad. As far as recovery protocols are concerned, for my DeFI party, it is first and foremost necessary to harmonise the opening hours for the Horeca but also for all sectors. There is a need for protocols based on consultation and communicated as soon as possible. It is regrettable that these protocols could not be communicated more than five days before the resumption, which seems far too late, especially since the announcements that will emerge from them on Friday will certainly not be sufficiently detailed. My question, therefore, is why decisions are so late. Why such a mismatch between your ministerial decree on ventilation devices and the protocols for each sector? I also heard that your ministerial decree on ventilation devices could be corrected so as not to prohibit certain devices which have been recognised for months in Belgium. Do you confirm that? I also hear that the Horeca is particularly concerned about maintaining telework four days a week. Sector actors need offices to be able to provide people with breakfasts, lunches and after work; therefore, is there any flexibility in this regard? With regard to the supervision of travel abroad, what leads are they on the Codeco table regarding the free testing of PCRs? I note that in some parties the same position does not seem to be defended. I hear the president of the MR say that we can't shave for free and nothing is free, and at the same time I hear one of his party's MPs plead for free. For my part, I believe that it makes no sense to advocate for freedom of choice in the field of vaccination if we then decide to hinder freedom of movement by penalising those who have not yet had the opportunity to be vaccinated. I would also like to hear from you about the carte blanche that was published yesterday by many academics about an analysis of the costs and benefits of containment. What is your reaction in this regard? Regardless of the provisions of the Pandemic Law, is a comprehensive assessment of the health, social, economic, mental health, etc. impact planned? By whom? Have you asked the Federal Office of the Plan or Sciensano? On the other hand, I would like to question you about the shortage of nurses. Indeed, many still care for patients co-viding in intensive care services. This shortage is mainly due to incomplete careers of five to ten years in intensive care. In addition, many nurses have drawn my attention to the fact that your promises of salary increases that are necessary to reduce premature departures are not being met with the expected effects and that, worse still, their profession would be penalized with the new IFIC baraemic system. How do you explain this situation? Are you able to reassure nurses today? I will conclude my speech with the issue of vaccination. It comes to my mind that people who were called to get vaccinated with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, while their treating physician advised them not to give the vaccine for medical reasons, were told that there was no question of giving them another vaccine, except in case of anaphylactic risk or cancer. In other words, no other pathology would be taken into account, even with the contrary medical opinion of the attending physician. Do you confirm this information? Do you consider this to be a normal way of doing things? Would greater flexibility in the choice of vaccines not be desirable when justified for serious medical reasons in order to prevent motivated individuals from finally deciding to follow the advice of their treating physician and refusing to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u16	Minister, I am going to ask a question on a subject that has already been raised by other colleagues. This is the death of a Slovenian woman who had been vaccinated with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. As a result of this death, it was decided not to administer this vaccine to people under 41 years of age, except for specific target audiences such as the homeless and the undocumented. Minister, I would like to know the reasons for this decision, which is a form of discrimination. Do you find it ethically correct to administer this vaccine to people under 41 years of age in these groups with the inherent risks? Have you ever had any contact with partners or organisations that specifically deal with these groups, such as refugee reception centres, anti-poverty organisations or social services and CPAS? Do you have an estimate of the number of people under the age of 41 who are affected? Are there any other solutions? Human lives are at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u17	Mr President, first of all, in my reply I would like to give very general answers to the most important issues before going into more detail on various issues. As far as my general answer is concerned, I would like to distinguish between three questions. The first question is: where are we today in the fight against the virus? What did we realize? The second question is: how did we get this far? After all, we can say that today we are looking at a very positive development. So we have to ask ourselves what that is the result of. A third question is: what are the further steps we will take in the fight against the virus? These are cautious steps, gradually, according to what I once called 'the realm of freedom' in this committee. I was thinking of September, October, November, where summer would be a transitional period. I'm sure you will. What cautious steps should we take now? Those are the three big questions. As the question has been specifically asked, I would also like to briefly address the question of what we can expect from the Consultative Committee that will meet this Friday. Where are we today? We see that the number of people who are sick by covid and stay on intensive care falls from day to day. We are clearly achieving the milestone we had set for ourselves, namely less than 500 people with covid on intensive care for entering a new round of easing on 9 June. This is a first very important milestone that we have achieved today. There's more than that. You will remember that I have repeatedly said in this committee and in the media that this milestone of less than 500 people with covid on intensive care was only one element. That disrupts our hospital system and prevents a normal course of work. However, I have always added that we need to ensure that this figure continues to fall significantly. To do so, the daily influx of people who are hospitalized with covid should decrease. We have to go to less than 150 shots a day. We have to go to less than 100 a day. In the summer, we should find ourselves in a situation where fewer than 75 people are admitted to hospital with covid. A few months ago, we received advice from the experts that the number of people admitted daily to hospitals with covid should be less than 75 in order to get into a somewhat safe harbour. That is why, in addition to the decisions of the Consultative Committee, I have always put a very strong emphasis on less than 500 people on intensive care and a falling daily influx of less than 150, less than 100, less than 75. That's where we should get. The good news is we're on our way there. That is extremely good news. With the Consultative Committee, we had also hit a second milestone in the ground. We had said that not only should a sufficient number of people be vaccinated in the older population, but also in the countrymen suffering from certain conditions, such as high blood pressure or diabetes. In that part of the population, people with underlying conditions, at least 80% should have received a first dose of the vaccine. Well, the good news is that we will probably reach this milestone by the end of the week, beginning next week. Then 80% of Belgians who have some underlying condition will have received a first dose of the vaccine. We will also realise the second milestone, which was very clearly set in stone on the previous Consultative Committee. That is extremely important. The fact that we have got this far is, of course, due to the success of the vaccination campaign. There's no question about that. In the groups that have been vaccinated, the number of people admitted to hospital with covid is dramatically reduced. For the first time, this has become clear to the residents of our residential care centres. The success of the vaccination and the enormous commitment of the staff of the vaccination centres, professionals and volunteers, the regional agencies and my regional colleagues: it has all contributed to this success, but we will have to continue our efforts for a long time to come. There is another element that we may be underestimating and which I would like to highlight in this committee. Steven Van Gucht, one of our federal spokesmen, said a while ago that it looks like we're in the most favorable scenario of what was predicted to us by the scientists, who with mathematical models make predictions the evolution of the epidemic. I refer to Professor Niel Hens and his colleagues, who use models to make fairly reliable predictions about how the epidemic will evolve. When one looks at their latest predictions and at today's situation, we are on the most favourable side of these predictions. The question is why. Is that some kind of miracle? The answer is no. It's not a miracle. It also has to do with the fact that people have behaved very carefully. At least Professor Hens, who I have interviewed extensively over the last few days, says so. That may not be the image we have, because we see very cheerful images of people returning to life, but Professor Hens and his team have been keeping very detailed records of the number of contacts our people maintain for a long time. If you look at this data, you will see that until recently, until the end of May, people's contact behaviour has remained very cautious. Professor Hens has very nice graphs about this that I can't show here, but you can ask him. That is also the explanation why we have such a positive development in covid hospitalisations today with vaccination and with the careful contact behaviour, and why the circulation of the virus is clearly deteriorating. It seems that the Belgians, after having listened to all kinds of directives for months, registered in ministerial decisions, have not only followed a number of tips to a large extent, but have also understood very well. They understood the reasons for the measures and the need to be cautious, even though they were socially difficult and, in fact, regrettable. We have built up a great deal of caution in our daily lives. That is particularly important. I can't show them, but I'd like to advise everyone to pull the data from Niel Hens. He illustrates very well that the contact behavior we see today is not at all the contact behavior there was before the pandemic. It's much more careful. In fact, we must keep it that way, because if that is a factor of success, in addition to vaccination, we must maintain that factor of success. That is why the government has decided not to lay down the personal behavior of the people at home with rules in a ministerial decision, but to count on their insight, which has grown, and to work with information translated into recommendations on what is cautious behaviour. Over the past few weeks, together with the scientific experts, myself and my staff, the Coronac Commissariat has worked intensively on fairly simple information and recommendations on cautious behaviour in personal life. I hope that this information and those recommendations will come out in the coming months and gain political support. It is therefore important that my political colleagues, who will meet with me on the Conciliation Committee next Friday, have a good look at them and think about them. For the sake of clarity, when we said that we would no longer register all the rules in detail in a ministerial decision, that was not an announcement that we could return to the pre-pandemic contact behavior. Absolutely not. That was not an announcement of the realm of freedom here and now. That was not a message that all brakes can be released and people can start hugging everyone, no matter how much we might like to do so. That wasn't the message. Then what is the message? We write the information about how one behaves carefully and what that means, not in a ministerial decision anymore. By the way, who reads that? We're campaigning on the basis of recommendations. Whatever is involved - and I will not say any more about this today - is that the information we have at our disposal today, and the recommendations we can give to people, have become quite nuanced and also quite complex. We must indeed distinguish between who is fully vaccinated and who is not fully vaccinated. Older people or vulnerable people with mutual disorders such as high blood pressure or diabetes who have already been fully vaccinated can actually afford a little more freedom when dealing with other people who have been fully vaccinated. Older people or vulnerable people with conditions that are not fully vaccinated must remain as careful today as they used to be. That is to say, not coming together with too large groups, keeping your distance, if not possible, wearing a mouth mask and outside one can do more than inside. The ministerial decision also states that under its roof no larger group than four people who do not belong to the household can be collected. So we need to start making a distinction in our advice between who is fully vaccinated and who is not. We should also point out that it is wise to pass a self-test at the pharmacy in case of doubt. In this way one can test whether one is contagious and whether one could infect other people when one meets them. We must also make it clear to the public that a space must be properly ventilated, whenever possible. The information we have, with all the nuances and complexity, is no longer in a ministerial decision today. We process them in recommendations. These will be quite cautious recommendations, which clearly do not signal that all brakes can be lifted. Absolutely not. We've been working hard on that over the past few weeks, along with the coronac commissioner. Mr Facon has already ripped off a tip of the veil in the media. Hopefully we will also find a good basis for this in the Conciliation Committee. How do we proceed now? First of all, we need to be very careful. A distinction is made between those who have been vaccinated and those who have not. Secondly, we also need to clarify the direction of our vaccination campaign. Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Depoorter and others have asked what our objective is. For more relaxations, for example at the end of the summer, we stick to the threshold of 70% of the population being vaccinated. That's a minimum. You will read in the press that our scientists are now debating whether 70% of the population is scientifically sufficient to truly marginalize the virus and really protect the whole of society. Some scientists now prefer 80 %; others hold on to 90 %. The truth is that we cannot make a final decision on this today. There is a lot of serious scientific work on the subject, but the ruling on whether one should go to 80 % or 90 % vaccination rate actually depends on the variants of the virus that we will see emerging. The answer to the question of whether 70 % or 80 % or 90 % of the population should be vaccinated depends on the infectiousness of the variants. We don't know everything about it yet, because we can still see variants pop up. I am therefore asking for a little understanding for the scientists who are struggling with the issue, doing serious research on it and debating it with each other. For us, as politicians, the vague message we have to send to the people is rising. Now, as far as we are concerned, the message is actually simple and clear. The message is that as many people as possible should be vaccinated to protect themselves from serious disease. As many people as possible should be fully vaccinated, not once if you need two doses, but twice. Full protection by two doses also means that the infection of the virus and the circulation of the virus are further reduced. With two doses we are more sure that we are also well protected against those variants, such as the Indian variant. The message is simple, but ambitious: as many people as possible, in all population groups, everywhere, in all municipalities, in all neighbourhoods, vaccinate completely. Completely, that is, with two doses. I will come back to a number of questions about this. On the one hand, there is a milestone that we have already knocked into the ground in the decisions of the Consultative Committee, in particular that we should eventually have vaccinated at least 70% of the population. That milestone stays there. It's a minimum minimorum. When one knows that there are more infectious variants in the meantime, and that there may be more infectious variants, shouldn't it be 80 % or 90 %? We are not going to settle that scientific debate today. However, the ambition must be clear at the moment: as many people as possible, in all populations, everywhere, not once but twice vaccinated with Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca or with a vaccine like Johnson & Johnson, one dose of which is sufficient. That, of course, brings me to a sensitive point. The vaccination is the ticket to freedom for society, but also for individuals. That is not a question of discrimination, it is a reality. If four older friends meet and they are fully vaccinated, they can afford more than four older friends of which not everyone is fully vaccinated. We need to explain that to the people. Those who have not yet been fully vaccinated can afford less. That's right. Such a person must be much more careful. We're gonna have to explain that. There is another element: for the tourist season, countries will lay down rules for those admitted to enter the country, without full vaccination. What will these countries say to people who are not fully vaccinated? A distinction will be made. It is essential for everyone in this committee that people should not be stopped from moving or going to a cultural activity, if they have not even received an offer for vaccination. That would be discrimination. That is not acceptable. We are facing a complex and important debate today. How does our country deal with people who will travel to Belgium this summer or people who return from other countries? That's a first question. The second question is what other countries will do. What will France, Germany, Italy and Spain do? I have no answer to that last question. A number of countries may refuse entry if they have not been vaccinated twice with vaccines requiring two doses, such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna, unless a negative PCR test has been performed and has proof of this. It could be that some countries apply that rule and they may have very good arguments for that. No decision has yet been taken, but we must also think about it ourselves. What will we say to people who come into Belgium or to people who come back from abroad? The logic is that we will say that one must have been vaccinated at least once, but there are also good arguments to say that one must have been vaccinated twice and that, if that is not the case, one must submit proof of a negative test, as some other countries may decide. That brings me to the important question of access to testing. I want to be clear about this, especially in the knowledge that countries will thus be monitoring passenger traffic and certainly in the knowledge that, unfortunately, we will have delays in the delivery of vaccines and that this will delay our vaccination campaign. We need to make sure that people who have little money in their wallet can afford a PCR test. That is also why I have argued in the government to make it accessible, to make it cheap for PCR tests, at least one PCR test, for people who have not yet received an offer to be vaccinated so that they can go on a journey or go to a mass festival. People who have not yet received the offer are indeed entitled to a very cheap or even free PCR test. In concrete terms, therefore, we need to consider the following principle: who has received an offer that allows for complete vaccination and who has had time to deal with it, we should not necessarily offer a free or cheap PCR test. With someone who hasn't had the chance, it's necessary. I am in favour of that, and we are currently looking at it in the government. If not, there will be a problem and there will be unfair treatment. Mrs Taquin, Mrs Fonck and others have pointed this out. Some people will have had the chance to be vaccinated, others will not. So it is very important to say that there is a difference between who is and who is not vaccinated. It is also important that people are vaccinated twice if the vaccine asks for two doses. The people who did that will be able to afford more. The European countries will also lay down rules on this matter. Those who have not been given the opportunity to be vaccinated should have cheap or free access to PCR tests. That's essential. I will come back to a point raised by Mrs Depoorter, namely the difference between the municipalities. It is clear that in some municipalities vaccination is easier than in others. Especially in urban contexts, it is often more difficult. In the Brussels Region, for example, this is more the case than in Ostbelgien or Flanders, where the vaccination campaign is very smooth. My colleagues Alain Maron and Christie Morreale are doing their utmost, and many of the efforts they are making may not be sufficiently well known to this committee. We must support their efforts and ensure that everyone - from all sections of the population and from any social background - not only has access to vaccination, but also is convinced of the importance of being vaccinated. I trust that we will monitor this closely in the coming period, together with colleagues. We need to ensure that there is a broad spread of vaccination across all population groups. I regard this not only as a sanitary task, but also as a task of social justice. Not only well-educated and well-informed people should have access to vaccines. In districts with a high level of social disadvantage and many isolated and difficult to reach citizens, vaccination must also be brought to a successful conclusion. Mrs Rohonyi, you asked me what to expect from the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 4 June. There will be no further relaxations, they are not on the agenda. There are, however, two major and complex issues to be addressed. Firstly, we are discussing how we will deal with international travel in Belgium. How will we welcome the tourists who want to come to Belgium and how will we deal with the information available on the European Green Certificate, which apparently will now be called Digital COVID Certificate? What will we demand, both from tourists who come here and from Belgians who come back from abroad? That is a first question and I will not anticipate it. Secondly, how do we ensure that we maintain the cautious behavior that many people have made their own? How do we ensure good information and clear recommendations, so that this cautious behavior continues? That seems essential to me. These are the main subjects of the meeting on 4 June. I can imagine that there will be another meeting soon afterwards, with questions about additional relaxations during the summer period. After all, questions are still open from the catering industry, for example about closing hours. I assume that they will soon be discussed at a forthcoming meeting of the Consultative Committee after 4 June. On 4 June, however, all attention was focused on the organisation of travel. We must also ensure that the public understands that the message is not 'all brakes loose'. I will continue in Dutch, but don't worry, I will also answer in French. I'm going to go into a little more detail on the variants. There were questions about this from Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Fonck. I'll be there immediately, Mrs. Fonck, with some information. I'll start with the variants in general. Mrs Gijbels, you know that we work with sequencing on the one hand and with contact tracing on the other. In this way we are trying to identify the worrying variants so that we can see what is happening in our country. I do not think we can link the different waves of the epidemic in our country directly to the introduction of certain variants. It is sometimes claimed that the third wave can be explained by the transition from the dominance of the old, classic variants to the dominance of the so-called British variant. There is a point, but the British variant was already introduced in December 2020 and January 2021. The third wave didn't arrive until months later. The British variant has played a role in this, but it is not just that. It's also about people's behavior, where at some point there were too many contacts, which then is beneficial for the virus. In the second wave of last year we also saw no specific dominance of one variant, but a mix of different variants that were already circulating before. In the first wave we also saw a mix of variations from different geographical areas. There are countries in the world where the first wave was more homogeneous than ours, but it is difficult to make general statements about this. However, if a variant is to a large extent circulating in certain countries, it is likely that it will not be introduced once, but several times into our country. There is, of course, a certain, albeit not a strong connection between the number of introductions and the size of the probability that a particular variant will then become the dominant variant. Mrs Gijbels, it is therefore a complex and nuanced story. I would like to end with a general warning, but allow me to say the following first. There are generally reassuring data that vaccines are active against the British variant. A slightly reduced efficacy against the South African variant is expected. This has been demonstrated by field studies for AstraZeneca and to a lesser extent for Pfizer. For Moderna this has only been shown in laboratory experiments. Johnson and Johnson have also shown this only in clinical studies carried out by the manufacturer. On the other hand, despite a slightly less effective vaccine against mild or moderate forms of COVID-19, there is still very good protection against serious forms of the disease, which has certainly been shown for Pfizer, in clinical studies for Johnson & Johnson and to a large extent for AstraZeneca. For the Brazilian variant, we see a slightly reduced efficacy in laboratory studies, which is higher than for the South African variant and more in line with the effectiveness against the British variant. There is a lot of debate and concern about the Indian variant. There are indications of reduced efficacy, especially after one dose. That needs to be examined in greater detail. This is generally in favour of ensuring that when a vaccine is designed to be administered in two doses, people also use two doses. When a pharmaceutical company places on the market a product to be administered in two doses, it is crazy to think that one dose will suffice. When I ride the bike and there are two brakes on my bike, it is crazy to think that I can control myself from one brake and that the second brake is for nothing. It's crazy to think that. This is also the case with vaccines to be administered in two doses. I am talking about what I said just now: structuralally we must ensure that, in the light of the uncertainty about variants that may still be coming towards us and in the light of the uncertainty about the level of effectiveness of our vaccines in relation to variants such as the Indian population, as much as possible of the Belgian population has been vaccinated twice in all population groups, in all neighbourhoods, in all municipalities. That is actually the objective. But of course, as Mrs Fonck has said, we must also ask ourselves questions about the management of the epidemic and what we do in terms of travel. I repeat that since 28 April 2021, persons who have been in the territory of India at a time during the last 14 days are prohibited from travelling directly or indirectly to Belgian territory, provided that such persons do not have Belgian nationality or have their principal residence in Belgium. There are exceptions to this prohibition: - the professional travel of transport, freight and seamen, provided that they have a certificate from their employer; - the travel of diplomats, staff of international organisations and persons who are invited by international organisations and whose physical presence is indispensable for the proper functioning of these organisations, in the performance of their duties, provided that they have an essential travel certificate issued by the diplomatic mission or consular post in Belgium concerned. These two exceptions mean that the 48-hour rule is not applied to travellers who have stayed in India during the 14 days preceding their arrival in Belgium. Persons with Belgian nationality or principal residence in Belgium are not allowed to travel to India, but if they were in India before the entry into force of the travel ban, they are allowed to return to Belgium. Upon arrival in Belgium, they must undergo two PCR tests: one as soon as possible after arrival and one on the seventh day of quarantine. The mandatory 10-day quarantine period may be shortened if the result of the second PCR test, carried out at the earliest on the seventh day, is negative. Quarantine duration and testing strategy are based on scientific knowledge developed by the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) and validated by the Risk Management Group (RMG). In addition, all positive samples from travellers in a red area are currently being sequenced. Genome sequencing indicators for variant detection are also used to examine samples that may have been caused by a variant. This can be done either as a result of a link to a known mutation or at the special request of the health inspector. A risk analysis is carried out at Belgian and European level to determine which European or non-European countries represent an increased risk of travel, depending on the incidence of the virus, the sequencing of the virus, the genome in the country, the circulation or non-traffic of variants of concern and their circulation rate, if any. Thus, there is a high degree of vigilance around traffic, including Indian mutation in India and in other countries outside India, such as the United Kingdom. The Regions, which are responsible for tracing, quarantine and testing, have access to Passenger Locator Form (PLF) data through a cooperation agreement. In the Regions, the focus is also on awareness-raising and surveillance of travellers in order to improve compliance with quarantine and testing. This PCR test is mandatory as part of a trip to a red zone, which contributes to a rapid response capacity in case of infection, and to a better knowledge of the circulation and import of variants in Belgium. You know that the federal police receive information about travellers from the red zones, who are forced to undergo quarantine and testing, and who have not yet activated their CCTC code (Covid-19 Test Prescription Code). Then I come to the theme of ventilation and outdoor air. It was asked for, but I can't easily come up with figures, let alone exact figures on the risk of contamination in outdoor air versus inside, and neither can scientists. People often see each other, both outside and inside, and possible infections that can be specifically linked to crowds on the public domain, outside, are of course difficult to connect. Of course one cannot simply conduct experimental research in which an infectious person in the outdoor air meets others. There have been or planned test events, in which we examine very explicitly how air quality or ventilation and the number of infections are related. The exact protocols we use vary depending on the type of event. In addition, Sciensano and VITO have a research protocol ready to map air quality in residential care centres and certain public areas and link that data to the number of infections with respiratory infections. You will hear that I am very much in favour of the Länder. So I can't say much more about it, but I think it's very important. Then there was a question about caregivers and masks. Healthcare providers generally have a high vaccination rate, but they also naturally come into contact with vulnerable people, not all of whom have been vaccinated. Also the American CDC, which generally says that fully vaccinated persons should no longer wear mouth masks, maintains so-called universal masking in hospitals and other health care institutions. I've had our experts think about that. They've issued opinions. These opinions are also reflected in our recommendations. I do not want to anticipate this too much, but I believe that there is still a great deal of caution to be given to the work in hospitals and residential care centres. Ventilation is important. I will not go back to that; I would remind you of the consultation committee's question to the National Crisis Centre to carry out an awareness campaign on the importance of ventilation. The Coronac Commissariat also works on this subject, but again, it is a competence of the Länder. We strongly encourage our Länder to implement standards of ventilation and air quality through their powers. By the way, when I look at federal taxation or taxation in general, it is also possible to charge the costs of measures taken by companies to invest in ventilation. I would also refer to the notification of the Consultation Committee on this matter. I was pleased that the Consultative Committee gave a real boost to thinking about and acting on ventilation last time. The Risk Assessment Group (RAG) provides advice on ventilation. I invite everyone to look at it. Ms. Zanchetta, to answer one of your specific questions, the Federal Bis platform enables testing capacity to be increased by 56 000 PCR tests per day, and in addition to the capacity already available through accredited clinical biology laboratories. This federal platform bis remains extremely important. During the summer, since a lot of countries are going to ask for a certificate of vaccination and even full two-dose vaccination for those who want to enter, it will be necessary to make available PCR tests. This means not only making them financially accessible, but also being able to organize them. It is also necessary to have a sufficiently fast turnover of results, otherwise it is likely to wait for the results. That is why this capacity, which has been realized and which is currently underused by the bis platform, remains very important. This capacity will need to be enhanced and the capacity of clinical laboratories will need to be enhanced. This is one of the topics on which the Office of the Commissioner and my staff are working. We are currently working so much on a strategy to reimburse at least one PCR test for those who have not had access to vaccination, but we are also working on a strategy to ensure that there will be sufficient capacity to analyze PCR tests and also sufficient capacity to organize sample removals. All this remains crucial. Ms Creemers, Mrs Gijbels, a new version of Coronalert was launched in May 2021. This release involves several improvements: adding a positive test result, adding a toolbox with useful links, adding vaccination centers, strengthening the user interface, charging keys from the same day for people working with an Android system, improving risk calculation. So a lot has happened. They are working in parallel on a new communication campaign. Currently, the strategic and creative concept of the campaign is being developed by an agency. The campaign will aim to further promote the app and ensure that people use the app more. There are now 2.7 million people who downloaded the app. That's nice in terms of number, but actually this has to increase. In addition to the general promotion, the campaign should also ensure that people use the app actively and correctly. We notice that the potential of the app is under-exploited, because users sometimes do not apply the existing functionalities correctly. For example, only 37% of users who have taken a positive test notify their contacts via the app. However, that is essential. Linking the app to a test via the web form or the 17-digit code is also problematic. We expect the communication campaign to be launched in early June 2021. There was also a demand for performance indicators, which are followed by the Inter-Federal Committee on Testing and Tracing. Let me sum up these indicators. It concerns the number of downloads of the Coronalert app, now more than 2,758,000. The number of active downloads is also around 1.5 million. We also know the language distribution for the Android operating system, namely 63.9 % Dutch, 26.1 % French, 6.4 % English, 0.5 % German and 3.1 % other languages. We also know how many test results have already been received through the app, namely 806,000. Of these, 76,000 results were positive, resulting in a positivity ratio of 9.43 %. We also know how many users have shared a positive test result, in particular 27,800. In fact, that is not enough. The number of users who notify their contacts anonymously via the app is only 37 %. That is little, which is unfortunate because there are no good arguments for it. After all, why not share his data? It happens completely anonymously, because the users who receive a notification do not know who was tested positive. Alerting the contacts is also super simple, because it only takes one click in the app. Moreover, it is a matter of citizenism to do so, which is precisely one of the reasons why a new campaign is being launched. We want to encourage people to do that. Moreover, these indicators are constantly monitored. I would like to add immediately that, despite this monitoring, it is not so easy to evaluate the system, precisely because of the extensive data protection. There are many things we don't know about the data being exchanged, precisely because of the concern for privacy. Obviously, when the pandemic is over, the whole system needs to be thoroughly evaluated. I assume that the special co-vid committee will also make recommendations in this respect. In the womb of the Interfederaal Committee Testing & Tracing, there is also continuous consultation with representatives of general practitioners' associations. They get firsthand information. They also have a platform for reporting problems with the app. The general practitioners will also be involved in the new communication campaign, which I have just announced. Concrete collaborations with stakeholders, such as local authorities and medical associations, are in a preparatory phase. What did this cost? Well, so far we have spent EUR 987,429 on the app, including for development, audits, hosting and recurring server costs. In addition, we have spent 19,579 euros on both the development and hosting of the website coronalert.be. Finally, we have spent EUR 278,971 promoting it through communication campaigns. The total of these three amounts is distributed among the Länder according to a fixed distribution key. We have been able to reduce costs somewhat, because we have based ourselves to a large extent or for important parts on the corona warn app of the German federal government and the European open standard DP-3T. I'll get to the vaccination strategy. There was a question about people in custody. There was a question about the prisoners. At the end of last week, 2,813 people were given a first dose of the vaccine in prison. They were people aged 65 and over, people with comorbidities and trainees. On 1 June, we will start administering the second dose to the risk group. Mr President, you also had a question about Johnson and Johnson. I should have mentioned this in the beginning, because this is a socially important and ethically sensitive issue. We have indeed had one case on Belgian territory of the death of a somewhat younger lady who was vaccinated with Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, outside our campaign. After all, it would not have been included in our campaign. Unfortunately, that lady died in a Belgian hospital. We've examined that and reported it to the EEA. In the meantime, we also have more information on the side effects of Johnson & Johnson identified in the United States, which seemed to indicate that one might have a similar profile of side effects, as for the AstraZeneca vaccine. In a first cautious approach, we immediately decided not to administer any more Johnson & Johnson vaccine to the general population we invite in the vaccination centres to people under 41 years of age, as we do with AstraZeneca, but that is a more final decision there. So we will not be giving that anymore for the time being, pending further analysis. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we decided to continue to do so for people who are in the priority group and who are actually vaccinating with Johnson&Johnson. These are older people who are vaccinated at home, and also other people who are not easily reached with the vaccination campaign and who are not easily received in a vaccination centre. That's where we made the following assessment. In the vaccination centers we use Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca without problems. But those vaccines are less obvious if you have to work outreach, if you have to visit someone at home, homeless people, someone in difficult circumstances, someone with serious mental problems. The choice not to use Johnson & johnsonte but another vaccine is much less obvious there. I would like to emphasise the following. The decision not to use AstraZeneca for people under 41 years of age means that they use Pfizer or Moderna for those people. The aim is to optimise the use of the various vaccines. Anyone who is not easily received in a vaccination centre and for whom there are hardly many alternatives to Johnson & Johnson, does not give Johnson & Johnson, means as much as that person does not receive a vaccine. That is, of course, a decision of another order. We have no reason to decide that someone for whom there is no alternative to Johnson & Johnson will actually not receive a vaccine, for example at home vaccination. We have therefore decided to continue the home vaccination campaign and the vaccination campaign of specific vulnerable groups with Johnson & Johnson for the time being. A Belgian scientific team is currently analysing everything we know about side effects with Johnson & Johnson, especially on the basis of the American data. In the United States, Johnson & Johnson has already been deployed massively. More than eight million doses and actually ten million doses have been given with Johnson & Johnson. I asked the European Medicines Agency to analyse this together with the scarce data we have on the deployment of Johnson and Johnson in Europe. I've been promised that analysis. I expect them in a few weeks at the latest. However, because time is running out, we have also launched an analysis with a Belgian team. I'm told that analysis is now complete. I don't have the data yet. However, we will have to look at the results and make decisions on the basis of them. We can make different kinds of decisions. We could decide that Johnson & Johnson's advantage for each age group is so much greater than the potential risk that we re-enter the general campaign for each age group of Johnson & Johnson. In that case, we are offering Johnson and Johnson without choice, because we believe that this is useful for everyone in the campaign. That could be a possible decision. Another decision might be that there is sufficient evidence for rare but still very annoying side effects below a certain age and so we do not use the vaccine below that age. We would then use the other vaccines for those categories. That could be a decision, too. Another possible decision lies in that. If people are properly informed, it is also not irresponsible for young people to receive Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, but they need to be informed that the balance between benefit and risk is less pronouncedly favourable than for some older people. If they want Johnson and Johnson because they want to protect themselves, then they can and can ask. This is also a possible approach, based on informed consent. Other countries are doing this today with Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. I think it is very possible for us to take such a decision. I think this should be looked at openly. Such a decision means that it is considered justified to use Johnson & Johnson for any age..... the balance is positive.... but it is understood that people under a certain age prefer to have another vaccine, because the balance is clearly more interesting for that other vaccine. That is why it is not uninteresting, let alone wrong, to get Johnson & Johnson when one is younger. We offer it to anyone who wants it on the basis of informed consent. That's also a possible decision. I hope that we can present such decisions fairly quickly and we can take them on the basis of sound data analysis. I think we will receive the data analysis in the near future, gathered at Belgian level. At European level, this will take at least two to three weeks. However, on the basis of the Belgian analyses, we will already be able to take certain orientations. I do not want to get ahead of that, but we need to look at these different possibilities with an open mind, knowing how important this vaccination campaign is. Mr Bacquelaine, with regard to those who have been infected and about whom one dose would suffice as a complete vaccination, as you mentioned, the Higher Council of Health (SHC) has repeated an extremely cautious and negative opinion. According to him, the smartest and most operational rule is that even if you've been infected, you need two doses. You are right, Mr Bacquelaine, there are health and organizational aspects; but a campaign is an organization. I am not saying that the debate is closed, but the opinion we have just received from the CSS is still leading us towards the position of recommending two doses of the vaccine, even for those who have been infected. It is possible that some European countries say that two doses of this vaccine are required to enter their homes, but that one can return if one has been infected, if one has been positive and if one has some immunity combined with a single dose. Such patterns may occur. I can't prejudge. But our CSS tells us that even for those who have been infected, two doses of vaccine must be administered. In relation to the 16- and 17-year-olds, an opinion was issued by the Supreme Health Council that it is appropriate to vaccinate that target group. Considering the intention to vaccinate as many people as possible to reduce the circulation of the virus, and considering that the vaccine is effective in young people and that there are no problems with side effects, as is the case with the Pfizer vaccine, the balance is therefore beneficial - the High Health Council recommends that the 16- and 17-year-olds should also be included in the vaccination campaign. No decision has yet been taken by the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Health Ministers, but I expect that we will do so in the near future. Mrs Zanchetta, as far as boosters are concerned, we currently have little data on the duration of vaccine protection against covid-19, particularly in the context of the emergence of new variants of the virus. However, according to a risk assessment carried out by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and published on 23 April last year in relation to vaccination strategies, repeated recalls with updated vaccine formulations are likely to be required at regular intervals for a large majority of the population. The best approach, whether repeated vaccination of everyone or only high-risk groups - as is the case with influenza - is currently being investigated and discussed. Pfizer and BioNTech are currently studying the safety and protective immunity of a third dose of their vaccine against variants that may be in circulation, to determine if a booster will be required. Moderna also tests the effectiveness of a third dose of its vaccine and its specific booster for the South African variant. Other initiatives are also underway, for example in the United Kingdom, where the VOC-Boost Vaccine Study studies the use of seven different covid-19 vaccines administered in third dose. Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Sneppe, I'm giving you some figures on deliveries. A total of 6.648.675 vaccines have already been delivered to our country. More than 4 million of these were Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. 580.320 Pfizer vaccines, 76.800 Moderna vaccines, 335.200 AstraZeneca vaccines and 85.600 Johnson & Johnson vaccines will be delivered in the next week. For the week of 7 June, 580.320 Pfizer vaccines and 76.800 Moderna vaccines were confirmed. For the week of 14 June, the following deliveries were confirmed: 580,320 Pfizer vaccines, 81,600 Moderna vaccines and 100,200 AstraZeneca vaccines. For the week of 21 June, 580.320 Pfizer vaccines and 85.200 Moderna vaccines have been confirmed. We always communicate very transparently about the state of affairs and so far, Mrs Depoorter and other good colleagues, there is no sign that the citizens are dropping out, even if it is a bit of wood. It's actually a big success. In Flanders and East Belgium this is very pronounced, but also in Wallonia with the 65-plussers it is a megasuccess. There is also a very high number of entries on the QVAX reserve list, with more than 1 million people. So it's going well, I guess. It remains important to communicate honestly, with all the cards on the table, even though that is sometimes complicated to follow, also for the press. I think we should keep doing it this way. In any case, we must keep our finger on the pulse and intervene when we find that vaccination is clearly less willing among certain population groups, in certain neighbourhoods or in certain municipalities. By decision of the IMC, 33 million vaccines have already been ordered through the European procurement procedures. They're pre-financed by the Public Health Office. We use them as efficiently as possible and have already decided to make 4 million available to COVAX. The European Commission signed a third contract with Pfizer/BioNTech on 20 May 2021, covering twice 900 million doses for the period 2021-2023. The first 900 million are intended for the first 2 years, starting at the end of 2021. The years later, additional 900 million doses can be purchased optionally. It is important that contractual arrangements have been made for the vaccine to be adapted to the main variants. Mrs Depoorter, I do not need to explain the pro-rata principle anymore. It means that we receive 22.9 million doses of the total of 900 million. Optionally, another 22.9 million could be added. This number has to be divided again by 2 and this results in a good number, which however does not exceed the total number of Belgians. According to the basic agreement we have concluded, theoretically, with only Pfizer vaccines available, the entire Belgian population could be given an adapted booster vaccine once a year during that two-year period. The contract stipulates that vaccine production takes place entirely in Europe. That's not a problem, because Pfizer has its main production sites in Puurs and Wartburg in Germany. The essential ingredients of the vaccine will also come from the European Union. The contract also specifies that supplies to the European Union must be guaranteed. However, it is not so good in principle that we depend on one supplier in that further story. Of course, it would be good if we had a portfolio, with multiple providers. Pfizer comes here first and of course we have taken our pro-rata share, which allows us to cover the Belgian population. Mrs Depoorter, the judgment of the Brussels Appeal Court on the legal dispute between Europe and AstraZeneca will follow later in June. Mrs Farih, Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Taquin and Mrs Fonck, the European COOVID-19 certificate is not a passport that allows travellers to be denied access to Belgian territory. The regulation is very explicit in that regard. The European certificate only allows travellers to be exempted from sanitary measures, such as mandatory testing and quarantine. The European Union's co-vid certificate organises free movement. We can't refuse access to someone without a covid certificate. Without a covid certificate containing sufficient reassuring information, a person must be tested and, where appropriate, quarantined. The Regulation requires Member States to recognise certificates based on EEA-approved vaccines, but it also contains a clear call for all other WHO-approved vaccines to be recognised. However, this is not mandatory. The Member States have a choice. Belgium has not yet made any decisions on this. We have informal consultations with other Member States. Several Member States are apparently looking at this in different ways. My opinion, and the opinion of most ministers in the Belgian government, is that people who are vaccinated with a vaccine should be given the green light of the EEA when they cross the border. Then we really look at it European. We know that the procedures followed by the EEA are clear and high quality. One could provide for mutual equivalence of vaccines recognised by the FDA in the US and British MHRA, but I do not know whether we should agree that someone should cross the border with a vaccine used in China on the basis of procedures that we do not know well. I think that's something else. This debate is taking place in several European Member States. Feeling about that is different. You know that the European Union wants to work with a vaccination certificate that allows it to cross the border. If you don't have it, you're gonna have to be tested. The tests must therefore be affordable. You know that the European Union also wants to pay a sum for this. 100 million euros sounds a lot, but that is not going to make it in Belgium. We will therefore have to make a budgetary effort ourselves if we want to make cheap or free PCR tests available to people who cannot be vaccinated. According to the decisions of the Conciliation Committee, there will be a European certificate. This will go hand in hand with a Covid Safe Ticket which will only be used in Belgium during major events in mid-August. However, it is expected that this Covid Safe Ticket will be used for test events starting in July. Its concept will be technically very similar to the European certificate covid-19, but legally it will be a different instrument. With regard to food and beverages at major events, the same rules as those in effect in the Horeca at that time will apply. At major events, citizens from other European countries will be admitted. I can't imagine making a difference between nationalities, which would be discriminatory. These non-Belgian Europeans will be subject to the same Covid Safe Ticket conditions. I've already talked extensively about vaccination readiness. Mrs Depoorter, on 26 May there were 1,27,875 people on the reserve list QVAX, of which 419,553 can be invited. The other persons were already invited through the normal invitation circuit. A total of 112,636 citizens were invited on May 26 through QVAX. The e-mail address used to invite citizens always contains QVAX vaccine injection. The email address therefore contains a reference to the QVAX system. It is true that the e-mail does not include a telephone number of the company behind QVAX. The contract with the company responsible for the system did not stipulate that they should provide a first-line help desk for the citizens. If anyone has any questions about the authenticity of the e-mail, you can contact the vaccination centre, which also has a view on who is invited via QVAX. In addition, it is true that most vaccination centres choose to limit the registration time for a vaccination appointment to 30 minutes. Each vaccination centre can determine this parameter itself. However, time is usually deliberately kept short, as QVAX mainly distributes the remaining doses of the specific day. Citizens often have to visit on the same day or the next. When registering the citizen, a field is provided to specify a cell phone number, as well as a field to pass on the email address. At least one of the two fields must be completed. The citizen is therefore invited via the completed e-mail address or mobile number. If no mobile number was filled in, no invitation can of course be sent via SMS either. Finally, the external service provider who sends the texts has indeed experienced a number of delays in recent weeks. The problems with the software used to send the texts have now been solved. Mrs Depoorter, you asked an important question about the very large investment that we want to roll out on first-line psychological support. As announced, we will invest EUR 112 million in this. Converted into male and female power, this means that 1,500 full-time units can be paid, a very significant number. The question arises, of course, how we do that. I might now sound like "Saïdjah's father had a buffalo": we're still talking. That's what's needed. We need to consult closely with the relevant actors and professional organisations, with all those we have gathered on a cross-cutting agreement committee, which we have set up in the RIZIV. This consultation is necessary because we really want to be innovative. What we want to roll out in terms of first-line psychological support must be well anchored in the first line. We also need to be able to work in a population-oriented way. The population in a given area, in a region or sub-region, must be well served by first-line psychological support. We must also think of methods that may not always be strictly individual. All these things require a lot of consultation, which goes well, but takes time. As you pointed out in your question, the RIZIV Convention should also be amended. Such adaptation also means cooperation and coordination on the ground within the local context, also taking into account the division of competences. For a few weeks now, we have been working at various levels, particularly with my colleagues in the Inter-Kabinette Working Party on Health, but also with the Ministers of Education, in order to make the best possible use of all the resources we make available through various actions. This is what I said the most important thing. Mrs Van Camp, you are always on the same page with regard to compensation premiums for the protective equipment, but I do not blame you. The Council of Ministers approved the Royal Decree on compensation premiums for home nursing protection material for the period from September to November 2020. The decision was therefore delivered to the Council of State a few days ago and we expect an opinion within five days. The legal basis provides for an intervention for protective measures and equipment, not to compensate for the delay in the application of the measure. The delay does not affect the costs of the caregivers. Those costs are there and we will compensate them. Mrs Fonck, long covid is an increasingly important subject for me, not only on the basis of international literature but also on the basis of the number of people infected. New contaminations continue and the potential for long coviding is therefore important. We need to be serious about it. It seems to us that a focused and harmonized approach among different providers is important. An interim report on the hypothetical mechanisms of long-term covid is one of the aspects of the study of the Federal Centre of Expertise – study "needs and follow-up of patients with long-term covid". This interim report was published on 18 May. It appears from this report that the mechanisms underlying the symptoms of long-term covid are still largely unknown. It's a little awkward to say. Moreover, as the spectrum of these symptoms is very broad, several different mechanisms are probably at work and interfere with each other. On the other hand, scientific data are still quite limited and heterogeneous. They describe different forms, durations and severitys. The results reported in this interim report should therefore be interpreted with caution. To date, these are only assumptions that cannot be generalized and will continue to evolve. At present, two categories of mechanisms that cause the persistence of symptoms after an acute episode of covid-19 can be distinguished: on the one hand the mechanisms that have led to lesions to certain organs during the early stage of the disease, whose persistent symptoms are the consequences, and on the other hand the mechanisms responsible for persistent symptoms not related to classically objectifiable organ lesions. These two categories of mechanisms will have to be taken into account. Not yet aware of the best medical practices for revalidation of these patients, a research consortium has the task of developing recommendations of good practice, evidence-based, for such revalidation on the front line. However, the current nomenclature of physiotherapy provides for reimbursement of the care necessary for the treatment of the patient. Some covid patients can already benefit from 60 sessions reimbursed at the best reimbursement rate if, for example, they have been admitted in intensive care units. After these 60 sessions, a refund is still possible but with a lower amount. For other patients, the maximum reimbursement limit for insurance is 18 sessions, but treatment can be continued later with a lower refund. In addition, my strategic cell is currently examining with the health authorities concerned the impact of long-term covid and the costs that this can entail for the patients concerned. After verification, it turns out that as an instrument limiting the annual health costs of households, the maximum amount to be charged (MàF) can, in fact, provide solutions to alleviate the significant costs that appear to remain at the expense of some patients with long-term covids. But we know, of course, that there are also maximum limits to be charged. However, this instrument applies to patients with long-term covid. The application of the MàF also has the advantage of protection for a whole year and of the possibility, for certain benefits, of 100% coverage thanks to the paying third party. Taking into account the moderator's ticket in the MàF also allows for the benefit, subject to other conditions, of other accessibility instruments provided for by the compulsory health care insurance, such as the package for chronic patients. You are well aware of these instruments as you have drawn my attention to the importance of verifying that these mechanisms are working. You should be aware that these mechanisms do not require recognition of a disease or pathology. These are generic mechanisms that operate on the basis of benefits. It's important to know that. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u18	I give the floor to the N-VA immediately, I assume in the same order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u19	Minister, I would like to return to epidemiology, which you have also started. You indicate that everything is evolving well. That's right. The curves are going down well. You are looking for the cause especially in limiting the contacts. The degree of vaccination also plays a very important role in this respect. Now that the curves are falling, I wonder whether it is not time to put in place a number of instruments which were always said to come forward at a time when the number of infections was rather low. For example, I will knock on the same nail, the wastewater screening and the monitoring of the waste water. Now that we have fewer infections, it is important that, before there are clinical signs of new clusters, those first signals can be picked up and quickly smothered in the bud. We have not heard from waste water screening for six months now. I wonder if there's gonna be any more of it. I have the same question about the barometer. A very visual barometer can be useful, in which things like the vaccination rate but also other indicators are combined, to give people a good view of the situation. I am thinking, for example, of the positivity ratio. When we look at the most recent figures, this positivity ratio does not appear to be below 5% everywhere, which is the direction we should take according to the WHO. In Hainaut and Liège, for example, that ratio is still 7 % and 6.5 %. I wonder whether we should not look at, monitor and encourage each province to test more and focus where necessary, so that we reduce new fires and prevent them from moving to a wider region again. You also say that the cautious behaviour we are now accustomed to must be maintained. I agree with that statement. After all, we are in a fragile situation. However, I also hope that the recommendations also take into account the fact that we have had abnormal social contacts for over a year now, which has a major mental impact. I therefore hope that the new recommendations will include the mental factor. In relation to the variants, I asked my question not only about the variants or group, but also about the different strains discovered in Belgium. This shows that we have known a large number of different introductions in our country. That is why I think it should be a point of attention. We must remain alert to new introductions at the borders. Our country is a crossroads between different countries. That is why we must continue to pay our attention. I also hope that there will be a good analysis. As far as the Coronalert app is concerned, you yourself indicate that it is being used too little. So far, 27,800 positive results have been shared, you say. That's very little indeed. We see above all that there have been hardly any positive reports in the last six months. By December 2020, the number was already 20,000. In the last five to six months, therefore, hardly any more results have been reported. You indicate that there are no good arguments to not use the app properly. But doesn't this just indicate that we don't know why it's not being used properly? It seems to me to be an argument for a mid-term review. You say that an evaluation should be carried out, but I think this should be done now. The new version of the app has now been launched. I hope that the users and doctors will also be taken into account and that confidence in the app will be put into practice. He's here now, so it's important to bet on it. After all, he is one of the tools that can help us prevent a new wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u20	Mr. Chairman, I will activate my turbo. I have a number of comments to make, Mr President, particularly about first-line psychologists. I hear you talking about 112 million euros and 1,500 full-time equivalents. I've heard that story a few times, but there's not going to be much progress. What amazes me greatly is that I receive a message from the chairman of the Belgian Federation of Psychologists in which he reports that he has not yet been heard by your cabinet. Then I'll ask myself who's saying falsehoods here. You took office in October, and you have already indicated that you would certainly like to reach an agreement or a convention with the first-line psychologists, but then you must speak to them. I would therefore like to repeat that concern. The Minister of Education has indeed told me that your cabinet has contacted me to see how to work specifically for young people. In connection with the vaccinations, you mentioned the recommendations you are working on. I would like to make a call to follow this up. As far as communication is concerned, this government has not so far been the best. We need to communicate very clearly. I'm a little scared. We have had a difficult period, but it will really matter if we stick to the rules in the future. You're also waltzing around the vaccination readiness. You indicate that every community, every region will have to be vaccinated. But there are differences. The ReVaX initiatives are good, but we need to ensure that the vaccination rate is sufficiently high.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u21	For the record of the debate, we find each other perfect. I think that's crucial. I just don't want to sell too much rhetoric. However, I said in my general introduction that everyone, in all the population groups, in all the neighbourhoods in our country, should be vaccinated twice. I emphasized that once more. Of course I'm saying that because I don't think it's enough to talk about x %. That x % has to be everywhere. That's essential. I agree with that. I can tell you that I am in constant contact with my good colleagues, Alain Maron, Christine Morreale and others. We are also talking about this with each other. Their efforts are, of course, to a large extent theirs. They also make efforts, such as revoking the 65-plussers. I would find it a little impertinent to tell them what to do or not to do. I think it is important that we monitor it and that our interfederal task force facilitates, as it were, all their efforts. I can tell you that I have talked about this today, informally, with Mr Maron, with the question of whether things are going from his point of view as they should be, because we are indeed trying to share our concerns. I can only say that I think they are making a very great effort. However, an effort does not yet mean a result. I think we should be careful to give the impression that no effort would be made. That can't be said. However, I absolutely share what you say. I'm totally with you. There's no contradiction between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u22	It is true, Minister, that an effort is not the same as a result, but problems can also be identified. There are groups, regions, communities where there is a need to step up. You know that, I know that. In the context of general public health and in the context of the prevention of variants, this will really have to be addressed. I agree with you on the need for thorough analysis of Johnson and Johnson. For example, it is possible to work with informed consent, but you have not answered the question of how many vaccines you expect. I'm guessing you don't know either. So the main problem will still be whether we will get enough vaccines and how much this will affect our vaccination campaign. You said, finally, that you want to get a PCR test paid back for those people who haven't had a chance to get vaccinated. That is a correct analysis and you have our support for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u23	Minister, it was not Barbara Creemers who asked the question, but I, because Mrs Creemers is apologized. I would like to thank you for your statement on the current state of affairs, how we have got there and where we want to go. I found that very interesting and enlightening. I would like to say something about the young people. You said that because of the delays in deliveries, young people will have to wait even longer to be vaccinated and thus for their freedom. Whoever has already been vaccinated will probably get a little more freedom. You also referred to social justice. However, when it comes to young people, we must also think about intergenerational justice. I know you know that concept very well from your work as an academic. We have called for a great deal of solidarity from young people during the corona crisis, and I think it is a very difficult message for young people that they will be given less freedom in the coming months. I just wanted to mention that in my reply. I fully follow you when you say we should be careful. The cautious behavior we have become accustomed to in normal life must continue in the coming time to keep the figures favourable. That brings me to the Coronalert app that my question was about. I note that a lot of people were willing to use the app, but if we see that others do not, then that app is of little use. The app can only deliver if other people do the same, as with the vaccinations. Moreover, if the app is not user-friendly, it is not really conducive to the people who have it and were willing to use it. I think the criticism of that app was justified. We need to look at and adjust that to ensure that that app can play a role in keeping people vigilant in the coming months. You say a new version was launched in May. You referred to the toolbox, a better interface and better risk analysis. That's very good, but not many people know that. If you say there will be a new information campaign, it will be good and necessary. You referred to other performance indicators: the number of 2.7 million people who downloaded it must go up. More interesting is to compare the number of active users. I've heard that this is 1.5 million. 2.7 million people downloaded it, but only 1.7 million, a large half of it, really uses it. We must learn from that, because, as you say, a great deal of potential is still underutilised. The other performance indicators also point in the same direction. There are too few people who have informed their contacts through the app. Only 37 % of users have effectively linked a test to the app and that is a missed opportunity. It is particularly important that we involve the general practitioners. They take the test and can thus point the patient to the use of the app and encourage the test results to be charged. Of course, that should be user-friendly. You also mentioned the digital vaccination passport. That may also happen via an app. This summer many people who have not been vaccinated will have to be tested. That might be the ideal time to launch a new communication campaign on that app and to encourage people to put their test results in that app. A thorough evaluation of that app after the pandemic will certainly be necessary. It's the first time in history that the government has launched an app. This is certainly an opportunity to learn lessons from it, including in the field of behavior. The app was developed during a crisis. That's not obvious. I think we should prepare for the future so that we are ready when this happens again. eHealth will also become increasingly important. Maybe there are other applications that we need to think about. So I think an evaluation is very important. Thank you again, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u24	Mr President, I have informed my colleagues that I thought the answer was sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u25	Mr President, Mr Creyelman will no longer speak because he has not received an answer to his question. My questions are hardly half-answered either. Mr Minister, I am particularly concerned that serious and dangerous side effects are dismissed as very rare and therefore negligible, but it will only be your father or mother, brother or sister, daughter or son who will see it. Side effects are also often not reported. So there's a serious underreport. How is it shown that the vaccine is responsible for death or serious side effect or disease? How will it be possible to demonstrate in a number of years that certain diseases are the result of this vaccination? I have more and more doubts about this, also because there is very little transparency about it. It is an innovative, but still experimental vaccine that gives a good immune response and therefore works, but we do not yet know the long-term consequences. That's the kind of vaccine we'd like to administer to our children. A study in the United Kingdom did not detect rare adverse reactions according to the EEA because the group of children studied was too limited. However, we will take those risks and inoculate our children and young people with the vaccine. By the way, this virus doesn't make our young people very sick. Most people just have a slight cold, some get a heavier cold, but nothing bad. Yet we take the risk of inoculating perfectly healthy children. A study by ECDC indicates that the risk of death or serious covid for unvaccinated young and healthy people is small or not significant, even before the start of the vaccination campaign. Then why should we expose our young people to such uncertainty? Should we not apply the principle of caution here? Kids aren't little adults. I urge the Consultative Committee to think very carefully about possible decisions concerning our young people and our children not to be used as guinea pigs. I'm going to go into some of your answers. You said that we should strive to see fewer than 75 people admitted to hospitals in the summer. I've asked many times why people don't use medication anymore. Now we expect all the benefits of the vaccines, but why is good medication not being investigated better? I am thinking, for example, of ivermectin. However, there are also other medicines that offer hope and which we can use to treat people who are still sick from the virus at home by the general practitioner. So the pressure on the hospitals can be reduced. You pride yourself on the fact that 80% of people with underlying diseases have now been vaccinated. That is, of course, very good news. What does raise the question of why we still need to vaccinate our young people? Nor did you answer my question about the unnecessary federal stock of vaccines. Can we not use them better in the developing countries, where there are too few? That has been an issue lately. In this way, we could ensure that at least the care providers and the vulnerable there are already vaccinated. I do not understand your logic and that of European policy makers in this matter. You also warned that a number of restrictions remain, even though they will not be imposed by ministerial decision, but become recommendations. On that point, I agree with Mr Gijbels that we must pay attention to that. We've been in a carcan for over a year and a half in which people are restricted in their freedom. We must therefore be careful with the recommendations. Even those who have been vaccinated will still have to be careful, you say. But either one is vaccinated and protected and one can enjoy freedom. Either the message is that we still have to be careful and then I can only conclude that you obviously do not have that much faith in the vaccines. You say that 70% of the population must have been vaccinated in order to relax and to regain freedom. Scientists raise that percentage to 80%. Looks like a bid. In Israel 60% has been vaccinated and all restrictions are thrown into the bin, including the vaccination passport. I therefore call for your vaccination rate to be adjusted and realistic about what has been done to the people in the past. Mental health also plays an important role. Finally, when I hear a socialist minister say that there will be a difference between vaccinees and non-vaccines. So you are openly advocating segregation: vaccinees will be allowed more, non-vaccines will be allowed nothing or much less. So you are in favour of setting up vaccinees against non-vaccines. Should the Flemish Interest dare to say such a thing, it was too small.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u26	What improbable nonsense are you telling me...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u27	You just said it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u28	I don't know if it's worth responding to this. First, you ask whether, when the elderly and the vulnerable are vaccinated, we still need to vaccinate the rest. There are very good reasons why people should be vaccinated, especially in order to reduce the circulation of the virus, if not everyone remains vulnerable. I have the impression you're flirting with an anti-vax sentiment. Your arguments are so sloppy, so sloppy. What are you saying about segregation? What kind of bullshit is that? It's just a fact that if you and I are fully vaccinated and we meet, we won't make each other sick or infect each other. Then why should we wear a mouth mask for the next six months? Why would that be necessary? Conversely, if you and I meet and you haven't been vaccinated and I have, even the small risk that I might still be contagious, which could make you sick, is a reason to put on a mouth mask and keep away. What does that have to do with segregation? What the hell are you talking about? This is about people's health. It's about what one has to do to be healthy. When someone has the flu, we ask him or her to stay home and not go to work. Is that segregation? What kind of talk is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u29	Minister, I have noted your own statement because I found it so striking, namely 'a distinction between fully vaccinated or not fully vaccinated'. That's what you said. We want to be able to watch that later on on the video footage. Those aren't my words. For a socialist, that's not a story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u30	Mrs. Sneppe, you're unlikely to be busy. There's a distinction between someone who has the flu and someone who doesn't have the flu. Someone with the flu shouldn't go to work. I don't want him or her to go to work. Is that discrimination or segregation? No, of course it's not. I just don't want him or her to make his or her colleagues sick. What are you telling me? It's almost interesting to listen to. I didn't know the Flemish interest was so flirting with antivax sentiment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u31	That is again proof that when one asks questions that do not fit in the box of what we constantly hear, one is pushed into the corner of the anti-vaxxers. I'm not an anti-vaxxer. My kids have all been vaccinated. As a politician, I'm allowed to ask critical questions. Those critical questions are there and you do not answer my critical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u32	Keep it a little conceptual...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u33	Mr Minister, what will you do with the unnecessary federal stocks of vaccines, which the Finance Inspectorate indicates are 33.6 million units? I can't get an answer to that question. I also had questions about the side effects. How transparent is it? What's the connection between someone who gets sick after vaccination, and the vaccine? There's no answer to that either. Then you say I'm an anti-vaxer. I'm just trying to make people's critical voice heard here. Maybe you should get a little more out of the crowd. Then you will hear that critical voice. As a representative of the people, I try to make those critical voices heard here, because this critical voice is absent throughout the covid debate. You made it clear once again. When one hears a critical voice, one is an anti-vaxxer. I am very sorry about that. There has never been a decent debate here, even now, because people are being pushed into the corner of the anti-vaxxer, in which I do not belong at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u34	Minister, I have heard from you about the vaccination campaign and my request for free or partial testing. I am not reassured that I hear your arguments, but today, on the ground, the situation is different. First of all, will compulsory testing if not immunized be applicable only in the course of a holiday? I'm not sure. It is important that I send you a small topo of the current situation and of the townmaster's place in this vaccination campaign carried out by the Region. I know that the regional ministers are doing their utmost and that the task is not simple for anyone. As of 30 May, the situation of vaccination of the population over 18 years of age and over (figures taken from the Plasma platform at the disposal of the mayors in the Walloon Region) for persons partially vaccinated in Belgium is 30.4 per cent. In Hainaut, this situation is 28.82 per cent. In Charleroi, it is 26.13 per cent. In the case of persons fully vaccinated, Belgium is 22.24%. In Hainaut we are 20.59% and in Charleroi we are 15.48%. For those vaccinated with at least one dose, Belgium is 54.64 per cent, Hainaut 49.42 per cent and Charleroi 41.61 per cent. Among the percentages that are not included, that is, those who have not been vaccinated at all are not necessarily in this situation because of a choice. Today, my fellow mayors and I are approached every day by citizens who have not yet received a summons or who have registered on platforms to be vaccinated but are not called, or by people in a category that, because of age, does not yet have the possibility of being vaccinated. Today, we have to test ourselves to go on vacation, to find freedoms. I can tell you that there is a real momentum on the part of the people, who want to be vaccinated, because they understand that they will be able to regain their freedom through vaccination, and that they are convinced of it, even if there are fears, because it remains a medical act. It is therefore important that everyone chooses and that the choice is carefully considered. I can assure you that many citizens wish to be vaccinated, but do not have the opportunity to do so. That is not normal. It is in this sense that when a measure is taken that is entirely legitimate, for the common good and for the health of all, it must be feasible. This means that everyone has to go to vaccination. As long as this is not the case, unless people refuse, - I am against discrimination - people must be given the means, regardless of their age, regardless of their social class and origin, to have access to the tests, which must not be burdened with their budget or with a barrier to access to them. We know that it is not obvious to be tested officially and that this test is recognized. I really draw your attention to this point. I am convinced of this today, but I am not saying that the situation will be the same in a month's time. Today, the situation is not favourable so that you can achieve your goal. It is in this sense that I plead for a gesture, at least for the next three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u35	Mrs Taquin, I think we're on the same wavelength. I said that the three months you refer to are a period of vacation, festivals and various activities, so that at least a very cheap or free PCR-quality test must be provided for anyone who has not had access to vaccination – so no offer, no invitation. We agree on that. The debate is developing within the federal government, but I think all parties are in agreement, and you have expressed it well. Of course, there is still a need to determine the concrete modalities of this measure, but at the level of doctrine, I fully agree, as you put it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u36	If I may, minister, one point that I am also concerned about is the fact that you mentioned "the people who have not received their invitation to be vaccinated". How can you verify that a person has not received the invitation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u37	It's pretty easy, in principle, thanks to our computer systems. The invitation system is part of this centralised measure. At the central level, we have data from all those who have been invited or not to be vaccinated. We have this data for all Belgians. It is therefore possible to report that someone has been invited or has not yet been invited to receive a first or second dose of the vaccine. In principle, we can organise this control, my colleagues tell me, but you are right to insist on all the practical concerns and the reality that you live on the ground. I believe, however, that we agree on the principle and that, technologically, it is feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u38	Minister, I am reassured that we are on the same page and that you understand me. I'm just relaying a experience on the ground, which has not been obvious for more than a year – and not just for me. I'm not the spokesperson for the mayors, but I like to trace this information from my experience. It will always be possible for computer programs to record an invitation to a citizen, even if it has not been received. We have already experienced computer coumacs in other areas. It will therefore always be in doubt and therefore a risk of discrimination. I understand that you are listening attentively and thanking you, but keep all these considerations in mind so that these measures do not lead to discrimination!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u39	Mrs Jiroflée said that she was satisfied with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u40	Minister, you have made a lot of observations. I, who am scientific literature on a daily basis, admit that it is nice to hear the findings, but that is not what I expect from a minister. I expect solutions and actions. The vaccination campaign is moving forward, but let me make a number of comments and reflections. I'm gonna stay in my stinging role. First of all, we've got a throttle in delivery. Logistics must follow, including how doses arrive at vaccination centres. A million doses are currently in stock. That's a lot. There is really an obligation to succeed in the management of logistics that must follow the deliveries that are essentially accelerating for Pfizer. Then, even if vaccination progresses, this does not prevent a number of problems. The vaccination rate is not uniform. You agree with me that difficulties are encountered in certain neighbourhoods and regions. We know the findings. I'm interested in solutions and actions. I don't think we're going to do this without a special close relationship with field associations and general practitioners. Furthermore, no information is given in Belgium regarding the fact that the Pfizer vaccine is conservable for one month in the refrigerator and no longer in the freezer. If this community work is not done, neighbourhoods and areas will still have a lower vaccination rate. This is a ministerial obligation and responsibility which, at this stage, is insufficiently addressed. Not only is there a delay in some places but it continues to grow. This is a problem for the people concerned in these regions, but not just for them. Indeed, if the vaccination rate is not high and relatively homogeneous throughout the country, there will be less efficiency in terms of public health. This can be said for Belgium, for Europe or for the world. In any case, we are competent for Belgium and we will then have less efficiency in public health. I'm not going back to Johnson & Johnson. I have repeatedly asked you about this vaccine since it has been a long time since the publications have shown that it is the same physiopathology for severe complications as AstraZeneca. As far as age is concerned, I must admit that I do not understand why we have made a difference between these two vaccines. I don't follow you on people who are covid-positive either. You put forward the Higher Council of Health. Sometimes you follow him, sometimes you don't follow him. When I see how covid-positive patients have much greater side effects at the second dose of vaccine, this aspect of things is not taken into consideration. I think it's a mistake. Publications are multiplying to show that there is a high rate. It's not recent but it continues with extremely high rates when there has been a prior covid. Therefore, there is no justification for a second dose. And the majority of patients know very well that they did the covid. The second aspect on which I expected something a little more incisive on your part in terms of action is the potential threat of variants. This remains a major issue, especially the Indian variant renamed the delta variant. You're talking about control on the way back from India. We know that we have an acceleration of this variation in a whole series of countries. It is known that this variant is a little more resistant to the vaccine and is a little faster and more contagious. What are the levers? You're telling me there's a return ban for India, except for the Belgians. All right, but what are we doing about the UK specific? We're sequencing. All right, but the reality is that returns from these areas that are extremely at risk compared to, for example, this variation, the effectiveness of the famous OJ1 and OJ7 tests remains very low. Without a perfect effectiveness of testing OJ1 and OJ7, you know that the risk of importing or circulating this variant even faster within Belgium is major. Strong measures must be taken in this regard. Today, they remain too weak in Belgium. We are moving in the right direction, but we need to deal perfectly with the threats that persist. Otherwise, we risk having problems again. About the PCR test, you've known my opinion for a long time. It's not for nothing that I tried to get him to vote. A free or almost free test this summer for those who have not yet had access to vaccination is frankly not enough. First, for a question of fairness. We asked young people not to move when they were at low risk to protect older people. Now that older people are being vaccinated and will be able to travel much more, young people are being told that they will have to do a lot of things and pay from their pockets. I find that there is a real problem with this in the way we pay attention to the different categories of the population, and especially those who made the most efforts, when they had the least risk. They're the kids. Moreover, when the cost is invoked: yes, it costs! But doing too few tests, and therefore tracing, and hence isolation of positives, costs. Insufficient testing costs a lot more. This costs much more in terms of health, economics and restrictions on collective freedoms. Quickly a few more small points. As far as the breakdown is concerned, here too, we remain in the observations. It's been a year since we've seen the breakdown. Literature is legion. She's implacable. I don't see much going on about it. You're referring to the federated entities. You're not wrong, that's right, about everything about schools, CO2 detectors, etc. That being the case, you yourself have also taken a ministerial decision on the rules for ventilation, air purification, etc. This ministerial decree raises a number of questions with regard to the arrangements that have been excluded. You also have a competence that is committed to that. I can only encourage all governments to give a famous boost. In September, with the re-entry, and then in the fall, the ventilation factor will remain a key factor, including in relation to the variants I mentioned. Finally, with regard to nursing homes and in particular my appeal to relax a number of visits, even when the criteria set by the RMG are not met - the famous 70% of people vaccinated among the staff - there is a real problem! We cannot continue to keep rest homes strictly under bells only on this aspect of vaccination of health care workers, especially since a number of them, in addition, have covided and therefore have antibodies and immunity acquired, which then represents more than 70% of protection. It is a real problem to imagine that there are almost no visits, including those with close immunisation. I propose that you seek further scientific advice on this matter and that this opinion on visits (the requirements and conditions for visits to nursing homes) be re-evaluated and reviewed. If I may, I will make the same comment for dialysis patients, transplant patients, severe immunocompromised patients who are not responding to the first two doses of vaccine. The literature now shows that a third very fast dose allows for the recovery of a number of very fragile patients. France has already launched the strategy. On this subject, if you don't answer me, I guess it's because you don't have an answer to give me. Seek advice from scientists! The literature on this subject reveals figures today. There are quick decisions to make to protect these patients. My great disappointment of the day and I will finish by that, concerns patients with long covid. You're telling me things I know. The KCE study is good, but for our patients it doesn't change anything. You explain to us that, for the kine, those who went to intensive care are entitled to 60 sessions. I'd like to talk to you about all those long-covid patients who didn't go to ICU. You say that 18 sessions for them, it's not so bad, that after they can have more. It is not possible to hear that, minister! You've communicated a lot. First of all, you rejected my demands about the long covid, sending me "wrong." It was in July and September 2020. Then you tried to catch up, admitting that there was a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u41	Mrs Fonck, in July, I had not yet taken office! Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u42	Minister, I will first let Mrs Fonck finish. Then you'll react. I like the debate, but we must not interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u43	Minister, in July and September, you were not there yet, that's right. However, when I came to present motions for resolutions, I was told that I was part of the opposition. Perhaps I should refer you to the very long answer you had given me to explain that, basically, it was not such a long covid, that all the devices were installed in Belgium and that no special reimbursement was required. I'm not going to remind you either that your firm has blocked the physiotherapists' file for many months, while the proposal came from the caregivers themselves. I'm also not going to remind you of your great communication over the last few weeks, before you finish answering me today that the 18 sessions of kine are not so useless since some patients can receive 60 - so much worse for others! They are entitled to the MAF, like all other patients, but without any special care. To tell you frankly, this is terribly disappointing. In addition, I see a form of indecency in your way of highlighting yourself on the level of communication by promising many things. In the end, however, there has been a lot of com' but, at this stage, still nothing for patients. I find this disappointing and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u44	Mrs Fonck, the opposition is here to oppose and you are clearly here to be very critical. It's not a problem, but it's still a little bit of a measure of what you're saying. I simply repeat the basic reasoning on long covid. First, of the maximum amount to be billed (MAF), it is important to check whether it covers the accumulation of user tickets for this type of patient. We manage our health care system not on the basis of the specific recognition of hundreds and hundreds of different pathologies. This is not how we manage health care. We manage them on the basis of coverage of benefits that are legitimate in the light of patients' complaints, in view of the therapies that are necessary. When it comes to health care coverage, say "you have to create something specific for long covid," I'm not saying we never do it, but it's very rare for us to do it. We do not create specific coverage for a disease A, B, C, D, E, F... This is not how we operate in health care. We operate on the basis of benefits which are reimbursed, benefits which are obviously linked to requirements, specific conditions and pathologies. The idea of creating a specific system of coverage for each disease, no, it's a bad idea. Obviously, it is necessary to check whether for these patients, the benefits, their reimbursements and specific coverages such as the MAF are adequate, but to say that it is "descending", "insulting", "incomprehensible" and all the words that you use when I reaffirm a basic principle valid for our entire health care system, you have to measure your words a bit. Every two weeks, I'm asked a question about long covid. I don't always have a new element. What is important is that scientificly, we have to work on the basis of instructions, guidelines for medical practice. What are medical practice, revalidation practice, etc. who are suitable for these patients? We can't make it up. We learn it on the basis of experiences, research, literature, etc.It takes time. So every fortnight, I answer you about the same thing, of course. I know I'm not going to convince you but grace, majority as opposition, try to have a critical debate, encourage me to act, etc. But the debate must remain serious. To be serious is to recognize that good practice guidelines are needed to tackle the problem of long covid. If the research is underway, if the most recent projects I mentioned are in progress, it takes a little patience. If in fifteen days you come back with the same questions and if I answer the same thing, you will come back with the same questions and say that it is insulting, indecent, implausible. Let's see...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u45	No, minister, I'm not in the opposition to object. Moreover, in the management of the covid-19, I was a sting in relation to the revision of the vaccination strategy that was dragging on, logistical issues, everything about testing or the need to better involve caregivers. I'm not here to object on principle. I think I've given a lot of feedback on the field, given a lot of my person as well, and followed the literature closely about it. I therefore think I have played the role of stinging on many occasions. To return to the long forms of covid-19, it was you, Minister, who made a very broad communication in the media on 25 May. Your announcements have been understood by many as advances in financial support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u46	No, I didn't. Excuse me, but this is an interpretation of my remarks. Read the Knack.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u47	It's not just the Knack, you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u48	I propose that Mrs Fonck finish because Mrs Rohonyi has yet to speak, and it is imperative that we finish at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. If you want, minister, I'll send you all the articles, just do a search in Google. You recall the principles of health. But who wanted acute covid patients to receive a 100% refund? The sp.a. You're talking about public health principles. What is there at the level of physiotherapists for a whole series of lists of chronic pathologies which, precisely, require a care and reimbursement of 60 sessions and not of 18? Yes, there is. For the long-term covid, it's left out. For repayments, what about the approach? When it's acute covid, sp.a. agrees to 100% management. But when it's the long-term covid, there's no particular approach. Yet, at the time of these debates, when this law for patients with acute covid was passed, sp.a. had said: "Yes, we will also do it for after the hospital." And all these promises have gone away. Today, we are being challenged by the principle of public health. Frankly, in relation to that, minister, if you hadn't made those big exits in the press, I would have continued, that's true, to play the trick. But when we do such "sexy" outings in the press, I think we have to assume, not sell wind, and be right with people. Because if you ask me to be correct, I ask you first and foremost to be correct with the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u50	Ma'am, I invite you to read the interview in Knack. What is a big announcement? That's all I said, it's an interview in Knack. Read it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u51	Mr Vandenbroucke, I propose to allow Mrs Fonck to finish. Ma'am, I'm asking you to close. We have to finish at 5:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u52	Minister, the reality of these patients is that they have serious concerns about financial management. Through this great "sexy" communication, you explained to them today that it was just what already existed. But that's not what you said. Finally, as far as medical guidelines are concerned, I myself had asked for them. I remember that in committee, some of the Vivaldi majority had opposed it and ended up joining me anyway. Of course, the KCE is doing a study. But let us not forget the scientific literature and good practices of other countries. There is already a lot of material, in this case for the most appropriate care possible. Not so far away countries, such as the United Kingdom, have already launched a specific public health strategy focused on long-term covid to help patients as best they can and improve their recovery. I therefore believe that Belgium, beyond the KCE study, should be able to make progress in this area with all that is already available and which can really improve the care of these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic493x.u53	[[Minister, I have heard your explanation of the current situation.]] I won't react to it. With regard to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, you have decided not to administer it to people under 41 years of age in vaccination centres, but to elderly people vaccinated at home and to certain audiences such as undocumented and homeless. These audiences are different and less easy to reach, although the elderly at home are known by their home – this is a separate category. I recognize that there is a problem with the homeless and undocumented people who are more difficult to reach. I understand the dilemma we are facing. On the other hand, you said, in my opinion, a little too squarely, that if you can't give them the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, it means that these people won't be vaccinated at all. In my view, this does not necessarily have to be the case. I also asked you if you had any contact with the organizations that specifically deal with these audiences. I am thinking here of anti-poverty organisations and social services. You did not answer this question which – it is true – was not included in my written question. I hope that this is the case or that it will be the case in the decision-making process. Indeed, it is a question of different audiences, and at this stage I do not know whether it is possible to give them both doses. The issue should therefore be examined, in any case for some audiences. I welcome your decision to have an accelerated analysis carried out in Belgium, in parallel with the analysis carried out by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) on the basis, in particular, of the results obtained in the United States. But the question arises as to what you are going to do if the EMA's conclusions were to be negative. Would that mean that these people would no longer be vaccinated? I suppose you'll have to find a solution so that they can still be vaccinated. You also did not answer my question about the number of persons concerned. But it is true that it was not included in the written question sent to you either. However, it would be interesting to know how many thousands of people it really is.
