ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u1	Madam President, I will try to be brief and concise. Madam Minister, last year we adopted a new law to correct the payout of miners' pension supplements. In the meantime, the Federal Pension Service has started to pay the overdue pension supplements. Thanks for the hard work, because I can imagine that it takes a lot of preparation to do it correctly. However, we note, and this is also noticeable from the number of questions on our agenda today, that there are still a lot of questions for both ex-miners and miners' families. It appears that the letter they receive with information on the calculation does not give them enough information to understand how to get the final amount. Especially for ex-miners who in principle already retired before the introduction of the euro, it is not clear from the information they receive in that letter to follow the calculation. I have two specific questions on this. Firstly, can you explain to us how the calculation of pension supplements and the necessary deductions were made? There are a lot of questions about the company tax. Secondly, how can we best inform the target group? Isn't it the intention of the government, and of the government, to be a performer? We all know that people from the target group often have a migration background, which are older, and are not at all involved in this complicated technical matter. Does the government intend to organise an additional information campaign to ensure that we have that target group, because I get a lot of calls with questions about this? We could help the target group if we could provide them with good information from the public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the Act of June 15, 2020 has resolved the old issue of pension supplements for basic minors. The debates and hearings on this matter lasted for many months, before this right was finally recognised and applied. This represents a large number of cases handled by the Federal Pension Service (FPS). As a result, there are several considerations as to how pensions will be calculated by this authority, which receives instructions from the FPS Finance regarding taxation and any deductions to be taken into account. It is obvious that these retired substantive minors waited a long time before obtaining compensation from the State. If part of it is taken over by tax means, it can naturally be understood that difficulties arise and that a legal debate is being held on how these calculations can be understood by the SFP. Of course, legal experts have given an opinion on the matter. Minister, my questions are aimed at providing some clarification on this issue. Will pension supplements be subject to taxation or not? I assume that you are in contact with your colleague in Finance and with the FPS Finances in this regard, since the taxation of personal taxes is their responsibility? Finally, how will the SFP inform the representative association of pensioners, as well as all beneficiaries, of the specific tax arrangements applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u3	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 June Parliament adopted a law on the method of calculating the pension supplement for underground miners. As a result, the first miners already received the first benefits in December. It is therefore perfectly right to praise the officials of the Federal Pension Service for the rapid approach, as did the miners themselves. The service has dealt with this huge administrative task very quickly. However, there is another important question that deserves clarification, namely whether the amount of that one-off payment of the retroactive pension supplement is taxable or not. In this respect, the professors Véronique Pertry and François-Xavier Gaudissart drew up a well-founded note providing clarity. Their final conclusion is that the one-off payment of the retroactive pension supplement for miners is not taxable. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the content of the report mentioned? Did you get a look at that? Do you share the findings? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u4	Madam President, Minister, last year we took a constructive approach to the joint legislative proposal that finally gave miners what they deserve after 30 years. We were largely in agreement on this and I would like to thank you for the speed with which this has been dealt with. It was originally foreseen that the calculations would be completed by the end of March and that payments would be made six weeks later. That's also the information we passed on to the miners. We were therefore surprised when it appeared that there were people who were already getting money in their accounts in December. However, there are still questions about this supplement. I personally had a few hundred of those files in my hands, and I also didn't see the forest through the trees for a moment. In particular, there are still a lot of questions about tax deductions. Madam Secretary, what about the tax treatment of the miners' pension supplement? According to the FPD, there is an exemption from withholding tax or tax exemption. On the basis of a memo by Véronique Pertry and François-Xavier Gaudissart, the group around the circle of friends argues that an exemption should not be provided, as there is no legal basis for making the one-off payment of a retroactive pension supplement taxable. Do you follow that reasoning? Something's not clear either. How many files have been processed in the meantime? How many of the dossiers dealt with relate to Walloon miners? Today we suddenly get emails about this too, but during the first talks about this it would only concern a Limburg dossier. Finally, a small question about the accessibility of the information number to which the miners can call. I hear from many people who call from abroad and come from the sky that they have a right to do so, that they do not get in on that number. Mail doesn't even answer. Are you aware of these complaints? I've been put in cc myself a lot, there's really evidence that they've called. Can something be done about that? That would be a huge step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u5	Madam President, Minister, thank you very much. The last time we were all here, we asked about the time frame and how smoothly that would all go. The miners were sitting on hot coal. You have already fulfilled that promise to a large extent, because I hear from a lot of miners that they have already gotten their file on the bus and that the first payouts have been made. There is a great deal of uncertainty as to what needs to be delivered or not. For the sake of clarity, this is certainly not about the solidarity contribution, the miners were pressing me to stress this at all times. If there is a group known for its solidarity, then certainly the miners. It's specifically about that piece of company tax. We have worked very hard here to get a law passed, which has corrected a contradiction from the last century. There was a contradiction between a law and a KB, which for years did not give the miners the pension supplement to which they were entitled. Now I am a little afraid that we are in a new contradiction, namely whether the amount of the correction, the piece that goes back ten years in time, is subject to corporate tax or not. It seems to be a contradiction again, because one expert says that this is the correcting of a mistake in the past, which therefore does not require the payment of a company tax. Another expert says that this is the result of a dispute between individuals and therefore a company levy has to be paid. You are the executive, Madam Minister, so we ask you to take a position on this. Are we talking about an amount of correction due to a past error and therefore should we not pay a corporate tax? Or do you follow the reasoning as it would be a dispute between persons, which is mentioned in another law? The miners are asking for clarity and I very much hope that you can give it to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have no knowledge of the previous Minister's commitment to this matter. Moreover, I am not a minister of words but a minister of action. If I make a commitment, I will do everything in my power to bring it to a successful conclusion. The supplement to the miners' pension is a well-known file that was corrected after many years. My administration is currently implementing the law of 15 June 2020. It is a tedious and enormous work, but it is progressing well thanks to the remarkable work of the administration to which I will pass on the message. In the meantime, 70% of the files were completed, namely 13,322 of 19,001 files. The implementation rate is therefore good. The Federal Pension Service estimates that 4,438 of the 5,952 Walloon files – as this was a particular issue – have already been completed, that is, 74.5% very accurately. I would like to stress that this execution applies uniformly within the FPS, i.e. no difference is made between persons depending on the Region in which they reside or have their rights. On a separate page of the SFP, online, www.sfpd.fgov.be/en/revision-supplements-minor, all pensioners or their families – and you too, MPs – can track progress in the analysis of cases. We're transparent at the SFP. Following your questions, and following a letter from the Vriandenkring, we immediately wrote to the competent minister. The Minister of Finance has since confirmed to me that the supplements granted will be treated as other pension arrears and will therefore be taxable as such. The association of minors was also informed of this in the course of last week. I cannot enter into a dialogue with the miners about the company tax, as this is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. For me, therefore, this debate is closed, following the decision of the Minister of Finance. In addition, the remaining 30% of cases, including the most difficult cases, still need to be dealt with. But I have asked my administration to ensure that the end-March deadline is maintained. We continue to keep the pace of file analysis, which is done with the utmost care. If workers or families face problems in analyzing their file or have questions about it, I would like to remind them that they can always contact the Pension Administration directly by calling the free number. They also have the option to send an e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u7	Madam Secretary, you are right about the progress of the dossiers. If 13,221 of the 19,000 files have already been recorded and prepared, then there is a really big step forward since the last time we sat together. It is good that this is done transparently and that we can follow it up properly. I would just like to comment on the way in which the target group is being reached today. I have the impression that unfortunately the free line is not working as it should, because a lot of people tell me that they are not really being helped or that they are not getting the right information they are looking for. As far as the levies are concerned, I think that there will certainly be some questions for Mr Van Peteghem about this. We will continue the debate there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are indeed a minister of action and not just words, and I can only thank you for that. That is a big difference from the discussions we have had earlier on miners' pensions. I would also like to thank the administration and staff of the Federal Pension Service. I do not think it is obvious to deal with such a comprehensive dossier manually and within the time frame, even earlier than you had envisaged. It has been said here, the miners have had to wait 30 years for that pension supplement. We have had a lot of debates on this in the Chamber, and it is now clear that there is a different interpretation between the FPS Finance, which says that it should be subject to company tax and the other experts, also appointed by the CS Friends' Circle, who say that this is a one-off benefit, a sui generis benefit on which no company tax should be levied. When I read those notes, I think that there are good reasons for saying that it is a sui generis benefit. We will set fire to the Minister of Finance and also ask him questions. I understand that it is not your competence, but I would like to insist on consultation between the two ministers and the miners with the experts they have appointed. Apart from the fact that it is something to which they are entitled for the hard work they have done in the past, I would like to avoid all those miners going to court to enforce their rights. Then the government would experience something. So I think this will be better dealt with in consultation. We will address the question to Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u9	Madam President, thank you. Madam President, I note that I am the only French speaker here, but I have followed the debate very closely in the past. I thank the Minister for her response. First of all, with regard to the work of the Federal Public Service, we were well aware, at the time we debated and passed this law, that this was going to represent for the administration a rather colossal work in addition to ordinary work. This is a good result, as the minister announces that 70% of the cases have now been dealt with and that work needs to be continued in the near future. With regard to the response of the Minister of Finance, I have no doubt that she will greatly disappoint all the beneficiaries, including the Vriendenkring association. We have received the study of the Eubelius office, which consists of about ten pages of legal considerations which I have begun the analysis of, but this is a rather technical subject. Like Mrs Vanrobaeys, I consider this to be a sui generis allowance for a very particular situation, which cannot be compared with other previous situations. As my colleague has just said, I think we will have to ask more precise and technical questions to the Minister of Finance, as well as written questions on specific legal issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Your answer is twofold. Firstly, you dealt with the state of play on the speed of the follow-up of the files. There is consensus that you are an actor and that we are working quickly, for which everyone is grateful. Secondly, there is the question of taxable capacity, and I am less satisfied with the answer. You open your umbrella there by referring to the Minister of Finance, and indeed, he indeed has the authority, but you are in the government together. If you answer that everything has to be arranged there and that you are working on it in the meantime, that reminds me of two people sitting in a car: you are on the steering wheel and next to you is the Minister of Finance, who leads you straight to the wall with a wrong course, on which you are going to crash, but you just keep on driving, because the Minister of Finance says it is good. I would therefore advise you, as a Minister with determination, to make another act and to quickly sit down at the table with the Minister of Finance for consultation. The position of the FPS Finance is of course known, but there is the note from the two professors and from the law firm and there is also a renowned fiscalist who let his light shine on this and they all say something else. In the meantime, your administration continues and files are being processed, possibly with mistakes. In order to avoid these mistakes and to correct past mistakes, I would ask you to act as quickly as possible and to consult with your colleague in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u11	Madam Minister, I have great admiration for the miners, not only for what they have done underground, but also because they have been waiting and fighting for what is due to them for six governments for 30 years. I'm afraid it's going to be a long-standing procedure now. Several financial specialists and professors make it clear that there are no deductions because it is about a new law. Period. We can discuss this. We have also put our legal service to work on this dossier in depth, but the miners are already 60 years old or older. Many miners have not been given what they really deserve, even their legal heirs will not experience it anymore, given the directives. I'm afraid they won't be so patient this time. They may be a year older, but their fighting skills are still there. I grew up in the battle of the mines and I think it's obvious to them. They don't want anything extra, they just want what's coming to them. They even want to contribute to solidarity, they even want to pay social security for this, but of course they do not. I'm afraid we haven't said the last thing about this. We will also put the necessary questions to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. They were very clear about the state of play, the state of play and the transparency surrounding it. I understand that you refer to the Minister of Finance for the answer on the company tax, but that does not really help the miners today. I fear, as Mr Colebunders says, that we have left here again with a new problem, which the miners have been bumping into for 30 years. In the past it was a law and a royal decree that contradicted each other, now it is two interpretations of the law on corporate tax that contradict each other. Mr Delizée has already referred to this: this dossier is not comparable to what we have already experienced in the past. The efforts the miners have made underground for us are also not comparable to other achievements. Madam Minister, I call on you to sit down with your finance colleague, but also with the miners and the experts who advise them and who say that this is a payment of a correction due to a past error, which means that no corporate tax has to be paid. You stand for transparency in these cases, so I urge you to sit with both the Minister of Finance and the miners in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to respect the time allotted so that we can go through with the questions of the day. At a distance, I know you don't always see the status of the chronometer. I will therefore allow myself to give you a few small reminders. Don't be offended!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u14	Madam President, I will certainly stick to speaking time, because this is a relatively short question. Madam Minister, I had originally put this question to the attention of the Secretary of State for the Budget, but because the question is about pensions, it was referred to you. When the budget notifications were approved, you allocated funds to pensions. That's what my question is about. Madam Secretary, what is the budgetary framework within which your department will have to work in the coming years? What budgets are available for each of the planned pension reforms? We have already completed the increase in the net pension, but I would ask you to indicate the budgets for it. In addition, it concerns, among other things, the elimination of the minimum coefficient for self-employed workers. Are there any additional income in the area of pensions or savings that can be used to finance the planned pension reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u15	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, as provided for in the coalition agreement, the first measures were taken and already budgeted as follows. The budget for the increase in minimum pensions is EUR 1,182 500 000 in 2024. This year, the amount allocated for this purpose is 192,700.000 euros. In addition to the increase in minimum pensions, we also have the increase in the calculation ceilings, which means EUR 18 million, planned in the budget of 2024. We also increased the basic amount of the IGO. In 2024, this amounts to a small EUR 200 million. Finally, we have the neutralization of the increases in the minimum pension at the level of the ZIV contribution and the solidarity contribution thresholds. EUR 180 million was allocated for this measure. I'll give you a table of the numbers. As regards the follow-up to measures to be taken under the pension reform, as provided for in the Government Agreement, several structural measures will be submitted to the Government in September 2021, following the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and for the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u17	Question No 55010428C by Mrs Florence Reuter is considered irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u18	Madam Minister, following a report by Caritas Vlaanderen published at the end of 2019, you already released a budget of EUR 200,000 for the Women's Council and its French-speaking counterpart to address the problem of menstrual poverty in December 2020. In response to my written question on the subject, you already explained the strategic lines agreed with the two Councils. I also understood that they would work with a project call. Madam Minister, with this strategy, of course, you are trying to get innovative ideas to grow from the bottom up in order to tackle the problem, but do you have a vision of how best to deal with the issue? Will you link an investigation to the results of the project calls? Will you check what works and what doesn't? This would be useful if we were to develop a structural policy. Will you develop a structural policy? Now a one-time budget has been made available. How do you see it? Do you also see a role for the OCMWs? If so, what role?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u19	Madam Secretary, poverty manifests itself in all areas of life, including health and hygiene. Menstruation poverty is an aspect of this. Recently Caritas Vlaanderen published a report asking for attention to the problem. The organisation also made a number of concrete proposals. Menstruation poverty has major consequences in many areas in the lives of girls and women. Some girls take the pill, for example, because the pill is refunded and do not buy menstrual products. They do not consider the effects on health. Others use menstrual products longer than indicated, increasing the risk of infections. In addition, stress and fear of leaks keep girls away from school. For example, they don't go on school trips. That's how they're building up a school retard. So the consequences of something that seems innocent are enormous. I welcome your decision to release a budget of EUR 200,000 to work on the problem. 100,000 euros goes to the Conseil Francophones des Femmes de Belgique and 100,000 euros to the Women's Council in Flanders. They need to tackle menstrual poverty. Madam Secretary, what happens to the resources? The Women's Councils can use these resources in various projects. Do you know what kind of projects it will be about? Is it a one-off or an annual amount? Are the projects being evaluated so that we can adjust afterwards? When will you possibly come to Parliament with this evaluation? The OMCWs also have a very important role to play in this. Do you foresee a certain level of support for the OCMWs? In concrete terms, I am thinking of additional support with federal or European resources such as FEAD funds or others, so that local authorities in turn can help organisations to make menstrual products available. These could, for example, be offered to social grocers and food distribution. That is already happening, but there are often deficits in this respect. They often receive food as a gift when it comes to time, but menstrual products become less bad and are almost never donated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u20	The term menstrual poverty is not yet widely known and all too often taboo. Unfortunately, for many women living in poverty, it is a real problem. Menstruation products are expensive. Women have around 500 cycles during their lives and spend thousands of euros on menstrual products, at least 2,000 euros. This is not related to costs for, among other things, gynecological studies and painkillers. I do not need to remind you of the VAT debate we held in Parliament on this issue. They are not luxury goods, but basic products, which some women in our country cannot afford. Menstruation poverty causes problems in everyday life. Women and young girls stay home out of shame, report to work sick, miss classes or do not participate in sports activities or other hobbies. We shouldn't be ashamed of being a woman. It is also a danger to public health. After all, some women resort to emergency solutions, which lead to an increased risk of infection and even put themselves at risk. The Caritas report rightly draws attention to this problem: one in eight girls is faced with menstrual poverty. Poverty has an impact on human dignity in many different ways, even on the most intimate aspects. As you know, women are the greatest victims of poverty. The Scottish initiative to make menstrual products free for all women is remarkable and inspiring. We still have a long way to go here. I think I have a special responsibility to all women. As you know, I have always shown myself to be combative in this area. The increase in benefits is certainly a step in the right direction, even a historic one. But that is not enough, because this measure is not specifically aimed at women. As you point out in your question, there is also an important role for the local level and especially for the OMCWs. So I certainly intend to motivate and support these organisations. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the associations. That is why I am currently working with the Conseil des Femmes Francophones de Belgique and the Women's Council on how we can give concrete support to the initiatives in the field. Both organisations received a grant of EUR 100,000 each. I spoke with them this month and we are actively working on the development of this project. I haven't received any concrete plans yet. I also analyse other ways to combat menstrual poverty. I will certainly keep you informed and it is also a new priority of the IMC. We had an IMC yesterday and this is one of the four priorities of the new IMC. We now have a coordinated policy with the different levels of government. I will deal with the question about the FEAD later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u21	Madam Minister, I gave the FEAD as an example, but my question was also general. Will federal resources be made available to local authorities? You didn't answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is indeed high time to break the taboo. You can count on us to take all the initiatives you want to take to tackle this problem. We do think it would be useful, after these calls for proposals, to find out which project is working or not, so that we can have a structural policy in the long term. I hope you will do that with the Women's Council. I think this is the only way forward. I look forward to seeing how you will motivate the OCMWs and how you will realise that support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and, above all, for your willingness to work on this issue. This is something that is often taboo, but it should not be. We should not be ashamed to be a woman and we should not be hindered in our daily functioning, to go to school or work because we are menstruating. Unfortunately, many women and girls do. It is good that something is already being provided for through the two women's councils. You cannot tell us today which projects there are, but that is not a big deal. We can come back to that at a later date. I have proposed that these projects should be evaluated afterwards and, if necessary, re-directed. We also have to work through local authorities, and in particular through the OCMWs. The federal government can support this through certain means that can be made available to the OMCWs so that they can support associations that offer these products. That way there will be no duplication of effort. It is good that this has become a priority at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Combating Poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u25	It's the two equal opportunities and the fight against poverty. If you can do it on one of the two, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u26	Mrs Samyn, do I pronounce the word diapers correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u27	Yes, Madam President. It might be easier to talk about diapers. Madam President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u28	Mrs Samyn, care products for women and young children are necessary products. For some families there is a great financial and mental burden from their shoulders, if they no longer have to buy those products themselves. Under the FEAD programme 2014-2020, the federal government has released funds for the purchase of hygienic products for women and men and for pampers in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. In total, 63,400 childcare products were distributed for women and men and 4,805,853 Pampers. This is only for the period between 2015 and 2018. Unfortunately, this material aid was not continued in the following years. The start of the new FEAD period 2021 to 2027 gives us the opportunity to re-integrate such material aid into the programme, which I naturally support. Public procurement still needs to be launched, because there are still talks with the Länder. The aim is to provide the fund with sufficient resources. For the question about VAT, I invite you to put it to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u29	Madam Minister, especially in view of the corona crisis, it is not financially easy for many young families and they barely make it to the end of the month with their pennies. We have spoken a few times about the number of new people who need to contact the OMCW and the Food Banks. For families with young children it would be a welcome financial or material support, something they also feel effective in the family wallet. I understand that this is a European programme and I will certainly ask the Minister for Finance because it is important. We have just talked about menstrual poverty, but pamper poverty is real. It would be a good thing, therefore, if diapers were included in the essential goods, because they are indeed. I'm sure everyone will agree to that. I am therefore pleased that funds will be made available to deal with poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u30	Madam Minister, several ministers have already been interviewed on the issue in the past. This is the first time for you, and I hope it will be the last time. For the determination of the reference wager for the calculation of the military retirement pension, only the annual basic wager is used. In addition, the training allowance shall also be taken into account. The 11 % bet complement for irregular services is taken into account for the civilian colleagues, but not for the military. The previous Minister of Pensions was repeatedly interviewed and informed in December 2019 that the draft Royal Decree on the addition of the Bet Complement of 11 % due to irregular benefits granted to members of the civilian personnel of Defence and to certain military personnel performing a paramedical function was ready. It only had to be approved by the Council of Ministers. However, since the government was operating in current cases, it could not be approved. That is why I have the following questions about the state of play in the dossier. Most of the work would have happened by now. Are you gonna go through with it? What timing do you have in mind? The previous minister has repeatedly committed himself to putting the dossier in order, but unfortunately he has not been able to deliver on his promise. Will this injustice finally be rectified during the present legislature after ten years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u31	Madam President, Minister, at present, only the annual base salary and the training allowance are taken into account in the calculation of the member's pension. While for their civilian colleagues, particularly for Defence Ministry employees, a salary supplement of 11% for irregular service is also taken into account, this is not the case for the military. Your predecessor pledged to respond to this difference in treatment by also granting this supplement to the military. He had thus announced that a draft royal decree was ready. However, the new government was put in place without the project having come into being. Minister, what do you intend to do and how long will it take to redress this injustice by granting this 11% supplement to the military?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u32	Madam, sir, since I took office, I have been able to be informed of the status of various outstanding cases. I can say that there are many of them. Therefore, my administration and I are working hand in hand to advance the many files with different systems. One of the outstanding issues concerns, as you said, ladies and gentlemen, some members of the civilian defence staff as well as some members of the military in a paramedical capacity. That is why I will ensure, and especially the administration will ensure, that these files move forward. The draft royal decree you mentioned will be submitted for opinion and consultation in the coming weeks. You know that before you are on your table, or on the government table, it must go through social consultation, and I want to do so. I will, of course, keep you informed of the follow-up. In any case, we hope that in the coming weeks this royal decree will be deposited. I would also like to remind you that equal treatment of citizens is fundamental to me. We are therefore trying to resolve all outstanding cases in a totally equal manner. It is important that workers are protected in their rights and treated equally. For me, that's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Thank you, too, for getting the cow right by the horns. I'll join you all the way. Equal treatment is also essential for us. That makes perfect sense. I think it is high time that this was settled for a group of people who should not end up being put at the risk of such dossiers being blocked by compelling government forms and standing in the way of equal treatment. I am therefore looking forward to the advice of the social partners when you can submit it to the Council of Ministers and this can be settled once and for all. Thanks for keeping us informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would also like to highlight the importance of fairness in the treatment of all citizens, but I refer above all to your commitment to submit the royal decree to consultation. I hope that you will be able to do so as soon as possible in order to meet the expectations of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u35	Minister, the current socio-economic situation is changing many workers who had relatively precarious jobs before the crisis, but who allowed them to stay in the water until the end of the month. Today, with the closure of the Horeca and cultural spaces, it is an entire part of society that finds itself without financial resources. Budgets have been released for this audience and CPAS are expected to take over and respond to calls for help. That's a very good thing. But they are limited by beacons that are probably, at this particularly complex time, too limiting. I would like to refer to two situations which have come to me through testimonies which, I confess, I could not really answer. The first is the fact of having to reside in Belgium for three years. This rule puts many students residing in Belgium, mainly French, on the sidelines of aid. However, they cannot apply for assistance in their country of origin because they no longer live there. Nor can they request one in Belgium. That's what they were told. Do you intend to make a temporary exception for this public, given the ubiquitous nature of its situation? They can't go back to their country because they're studying here. They have been accepted in our universities, academies, high schools at the cost of sometimes a long administrative journey. They've been here for six months, a year, or even a little more, but not yet three years. The second situation concerns cohabitation, which is a regular obstacle to aid. What are you already doing to prevent a cohabitation known as "non-society" (students, brothers and sisters, friends, etc.) does not impact and deepen the budgetary difficulties of citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u36	Mrs Leroy, your first question surprises me a little. In order to be able to benefit from the right to social integration, several conditions must be met: be of age or of age; lack of sufficient resources; exercise their rights under Belgian or foreign social legislation; reside in Belgium; a condition of nationality: be Belgian, stateless, recognised as a refugee, beneficiary of subsidiary protection, be a citizen of the European Union or a member of his or her family who accompanies him or joins him enjoying a right of residence of more than three months (not three years) in Belgium or be a foreigner registered in the population register. There is nowhere to be said of a three-year residence requirement in Belgium. Therefore, a foreign student in need can apply to the CPAS for any assistance. There must be two conditions for cohabitation in the area of the right to integration, namely living under one roof and settling household issues in common. If it appears from the social survey of the CPAS that these conditions are met, it is the rate of cohabitant that is to be granted. Otherwise, it is the rate of isolated persons. The problem of cohabitation has long been known to all, and many initiatives have emerged in recent years. On the other hand, better access to the right not only results in a valuation of the amounts, but also requires a review of the conditions for access to them. This is why the government agreement provides for an examination of whether social and fiscal regulations are still adapted to the current forms of common life and/or the care and choice of everyone. An analysis of individual files shows that some CPAS do not apply the co-habitation rate when students live under the same roof, but this depends on a decision in the autonomy of management of CPAS. In addition, a €115 million allocation was made for the creation of a "subside covid-19" to allow CPAS to provide much more flexibility in providing basic aid to the most disadvantaged population, of which students are of course part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u37	Minister, thank you very much for these answers. I do not hide from you that I am relieved to hear your answer to the first question, because I did not find this information during my research. I therefore wished to hear it from your mouth. On the other hand, these are the reasons for refusing the grant, and I think it is important to be able to return to these audiences to tell them that we agree and that there are no conditions for cohabitation. I agree with you that the work we have committed ourselves to do in this Parliament will be essential in the coming months and years, and I thank you for your commitment to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u38	Minister, my second question is a little different and is about the longer term. I'll talk to you about data anonymization, an exciting subject. Last year, in March 2019, a CPAS launched itself into a bet: to process applications for social assistance in anonymity. In concrete terms, the municipality put this measure in place for all the aid granted by the CPAS: from social integration income to meal vouchers and the granting of housing. Everything had to be anonymous. Thus, once the file was drawn up by the social worker, it was sent to the counsellors by removing all the applicant's attributes. Only the summary of the situation and the applicant's national register remained. The universal objectivity towards which decision-makers are supposed to tend seemed easier to achieve. It seems that a year later, without any real debate, the measure was abandoned. It's not easy enough to track the file with the ID number alone. Moreover, it seems easy, in small communes to guess who we are talking about in these files. Some feel that the applications are fairly anonymous, since they are dealt with in camera. Furthermore, it must be said that this anonymity remains relative since advisors have access to documents produced by the administration. Finally, in the event of a hearing of the applicant by the Board, it is not necessarily easy to keep anonymity. Yet it's a nice idea. She's fair and fair. Minister, what do you think of the process? What is your position on the so-called anonymous method? Do you know whether such initiatives work in other municipalities? Do you encourage CPAS to try this experiment, which could obviously be rethought and reorganized?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u39	Madam Chair, this experience of anonymous processing of files is an interesting initiative. The objectives of impartiality and neutrality that it pursues are honourable and are based on the values of fairness and fairness that I defend on a daily basis. Nevertheless, I can tell you, from my own experience, that things are already going very well, given the guarantees offered by the data confidentiality rules, to which every social worker, every social action adviser and every CPAS must stand. However, if a CPAS wishes to go further in the anonymity of its files, it is quite possible. There are no complaints about breach of professional secrecy and anonymity. The process you mention is limited when it comes to individual investigations and to take on the full dimension of often multifactorial problems. It is still complicated to remain anonymous only. I think it's human, and the human is important. A number doesn't make the human behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I wanted to hear from you, because it is a debate that is taking place in some communes and about which I have been questioned by some social workers wishing to return. Indeed, there is this tension between the will for fairness and equity and, sometimes too, the influence our stereotypes and prejudices can have on our own decisions, in an extremely subtle and invisible way. So one might imagine that depending on what one defines in a person's identity, the posture could change. Perhaps it would be interesting to use mixed methods, to examine whether anonymized treatments differ from treatments that would not be on identical files, such as experiments on fictitious hiring and interview files? Because in these cases, there may be variations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u41	Question No 55011105C by Mrs Willaert is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u42	Minister, since the coming into force of the law on the harmonization of the taking into account of years of study for the calculation of pensions, workers have the right, under conditions, to buy back or regularize these years of study. Under certain conditions, these years of study are taken into account for the calculation of the retirement pension up to one sixtieth per year of the reference salary which serves as the basis for the calculation of the pension. However, a transitional period had been introduced when the measure was adopted for workers who graduated before 1 December 2007. Until 30 November 2020 included, they could redeem the years from their 20th birthday at the amount of the flat-rate contribution. This transitional regime has now been completed. I therefore believe that the answers to the questions I am going to ask may be of interest to a large number of colleagues and citizens. Minister, how many regularizations have been made in years of study since the measure was adopted? What were the revenues generated? Is there an age analysis of beneficiaries who have chosen to buy back years of education? Finally, in view of the current health and economic crisis, is the Government considering extending the transitional period that has expired?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u43	Madam President, my colleague has just taken stock of the situation. I will not be redundant and will therefore simply ask my questions. Minister, could you please inform me of the number and profile of those who have had the opportunity to buy back their years of study? Are you considering the evaluation of this measure in the pension reform you are conducting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not considering extending the transitional period for the following reasons. The end of the transitional measures does not put an end to the possibility of regularising the years of study, but rather to the application of a flat rate applied irrespective of the year of regularisation. It is therefore always possible today to regularise these periods of study, an actuarial rate being applied to those who do more than ten years after graduation. Persons who wish to regularize their years of study were entitled to three years to do so at this preferential flat rate. For those who formally filed an application for regularization before 1 December but were unable to complete their entire file on time, in particular because of the co-vid, the closure of administrations, etc., the SFP has shown flexibility so that they can send the missing items even after 1 December. It was enough for the application to be submitted, regardless of whether the file was complete. This dossier will be taken into account as during the transitional period. Currently, the SFP has recorded 17,450 regularization claims for 5,306 payments. The total amount paid is 26,412,017, to be very precise. With regard to the age of beneficiaries who have chosen to buy back their years of study, the number of persons over 55 years of age is highest. As for the assessment of the measure, in relation to what had been planned by the previous government, from both a budgetary and a number point of view, we cannot say that it has been a huge success so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u45	Minister, I have no particular comment. We're going to analyze the numbers you're giving us. Thank you for your concise and yet comprehensive and clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your full response, particularly on the regularization files, the numbers and the age of the beneficiaries. However, we still need to be careful, because today we know that four out of ten pensioners live below the poverty line. I believe that measures must be put in place that do not penalize any worker at the end of his career and that do not stop all those who plan to specialize in higher education. Minister, I know that you are attentive to all of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u47	Mrs Lanjri, the interest rate to which you refer is used when determining the ZIV and the solidarity contribution to pensions. These contributions are calculated on the total pension income, i.e. statutory and supplementary pensions together. Since supplementary pensions are often paid in the form of a one-off capital, they are converted into a fictitious annuity for the determination of the ZIV and the solidarity contribution. Although it seems logical to calculate the social contribution on the basis of total pension income, this should be done in a fair way. I understand that fairness is being questioned today by many. In fact, we find that the conversion coefficients used to calculate the fictitious interest rates are based on increased hypotheses. As a result, the income of pensioners is at risk of being overestimated for the calculation of social contributions. We also note that the coefficients differ greatly from those used for other supplementary pensions applications, for example in calculating the indicative interest rate on mypension.be. This does not improve the comprehensibility of the system. It's very complex. I am therefore prepared to make a critical assessment of the scheme. In this context, I can inform you that the problem of the conversion coefficients, including those for calculating the ZIV and the solidarity contribution, is currently being examined in the Sigedis Advisory Committee, in which the social partners are represented. I look forward to their findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u48	Madam Secretary, I look forward to the results with you. The people who it's about, they do. They have to find today that they are charged a much too high interest rate of 4.75%, while interest rates are much lower. It is high time we adjusted it. The previous government had already taken steps in this direction. You're saying it's being watched. I suggest I ask you again in a month. When will they be ready? We can't wait years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u49	I don't know, I'll ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u50	If you inform me, then I can also find out what the results are and whether we will effectively adjust interest rates downwards. Hopefully there will also be a retroactive adjustment as far as possible. People have already paid too much. The question of whether the reduction is also applicable to what people have paid too much is also a remark that you could take with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u51	Madam President, Minister, your policy paper states that the NOVA+ project will give the OMCWs access to a proposal for the status of the beneficiary before submitting a grant application. The coalition agreement states that the rights which cannot be automatically granted will be provided with a digital tool for the benefit of social workers who, on the basis of their status, income, residence and family status, indicate to which local and supralocal support a household is entitled. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. How could NOVA+ achieve the objectives of the coalition agreement? With this tool, can one only look up the status of the person in question, or does he also indicate on which local and extra-local support this person is entitled on the basis of that statute? If not, will you work on such a tool? What about support based on the client's income, residence or family situation? Does NOVA+ have added value in this respect as a digital rights explorer? What initiatives will you take to create a digital rights explorer, which, on the basis of the status, income, residence and family situation, identifies the local and supralocal support a household is entitled to?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u52	Madam President, Ms Reynaert, the NOVA+ project was launched during the previous reign. It has a limited purpose, namely to provide social workers with information on the basis of a national register number, to facilitate social research and to reduce the administrative burden. For rights that cannot be granted automatically, we need to develop an instrument that takes into account all the social and economic aspects of the person and his household. The REMI programme seems to be able to meet this in part. However, as I have already said, there was no feedback for this system on experience, not even an evaluation. These elements are crucial in order to be able to make a well-founded decision. If REMI does not meet the objective, we can still develop a programme that allows us to objectivate the needs and harmonise the actions of the various OMCWs and the social workers from the same OCMW.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u53	Madam Minister, our party is in favour of abandoning the vision of defining poverty on the basis of the statute alone. From your reply, I understand that NOVA+ has only that limited purpose, to look at the statute. We want to look more broadly, among other things, at income, expenditure, residence and family situation. Only in this way can we achieve a decent income tailored to people's needs. That is why, as you yourself have said, we are in favour of the REMI system, which aims to achieve a decent income and to find out how much additional support is needed to get there. According to the way in which the REMI system has now been developed, this objective will not be achieved. That is why, in addition to the REMI system, we also call for a digital rights explorer, which local authorities can use to see at a glance what local and extra-local support a household has right to, as provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u54	"Madam the Minister, Dear Mrs Lalieux, the beneficiary of a pension under the civil servants' scheme under the age of 65 is authorised to pursue a professional activity provided that the related income does not exceed 8,393 € gross in 2020 otherwise a pension reduction scheme is applied
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u55	[[onses."]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u56	Mr Piedboeuf, your specific question is technical enough for an oral explanation, but I will try to answer it. A pensioner who does not have a career of 45 years or who has not yet reached the age of 65 may earn a pension and income provided that they do not exceed the gross amount of EUR 8,393 for 2020. A distinction should be made between the cost allowance for volunteer firefighters and volunteer firefighters – it is the same system – and the allowance obtained in the course of voluntary work. In fact, these are income that is treated differently, both from a tax point of view and from the point of view of their cumulation with the pension. First of all, with regard to the cost allowance for volunteer firefighters, it is exempt from taxes up to €6,210. We are again talking about revenues for the year 2020. As a result, it is not taken into account for the allowable revenue limits. That's probably what you wanted to hear. However, the part of the allowance which exceeds the amount of €6,210, as well as any income from another professional activity, will be taken into account in assessing whether the limit of cumulation has been exceeded or not. From 1 January 2021 onwards, it will be impossible to carry out any associative work, as referred to in the law of 18 July 2018 because, as you know, the latter was in fact annulled by the Constitutional Court on 23 April 2020. However, the effects of the cancellations remain in place until 31 December 2020. So nothing changes for 2020. However, the cost allowances for volunteer firefighters do not fall within the scope of voluntary work allowances. The annulment of the Act will therefore not apply to volunteer firefighters and will not have an impact on their retirement pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u57	That's very good, thank you Minister. That was why the Tax Code had been amended rather than associated it with this famous provision that had been annulled. So I have the answer to my questions and she perfectly satisfies me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u58	Madam President, Minister, since 1 January 2021 the price of love has been abolished. People with disabilities who are getting married or moving in together will, fortunately, no longer lose part of their integration meeting because they are moving in together. This is necessary because the integration meeting ultimately serves to cover the costs of integration into society and not reduce those costs when living together. The question is now the following. She was already sent by e-mail several times, to me and probably also to you. What will happen to people who were already married or living together before the law change, before 1 January? I have already asked this in the past. I was hoping that all this would be investigated automatically for people who were already living together and that it would be considered whether they would get back the part of the integration that they would be lost through cohabitation. I hear they're getting bad information from the FOD. They're sent from the locker to the wall, so they say in the e-mails. It's unclear. It is said that it is necessary to re-apply. Madam Secretary, these are things we cannot do. Can you ensure that from 1 January onwards this correction is made for those who have already lived together and thus lost part of their integration? How are you going to reach the group of people who already lived together before 1 January? Do they get that automatically? If you can't, why not? If you can't do it automatically, are you going to send them all a letter or are you going to set up a campaign? I hope that it can be done very easily, without red tape and without having to go through the whole process again. This should be done in a very simple way, if it could not be done automatically, which I prefer. Finally, the information at the FOD must also be unambiguous. People need to be helped forward and not sent from the locker to the wall. It is therefore necessary to consider internally that people are given the right information. There's a need for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u59	Madam President, I shall confine myself to my speech. Madam Minister, in your policy statement on people with disabilities, you indicated that you would abolish the price of love from 1 January 2021. This discrimination has been known for almost two decades. It is one of the biggest complaints of people with disabilities. In concrete terms, this means that if a person with a disability starts living or marrying with his or her partner, he or she suffers from this financial disadvantage because the partner's income is included in the calculation of the integration meeting or the income replacement allowance. These allowances are intended to compensate, on the one hand, for the costs incurred by their limitation and, on the other hand, to compensate partly for the income that is not earned because of their disability. During the budget negotiations in the Chamber on Thursday 17 December 2020, I asked you about a state of affairs on this dossier. But apparently at the federal level, there was still a kink in the cable and the coalition agreement does not provide for the full individualization of these rights. On 21 December 2020, on Twitter, you announced with great joy that the Council of Ministers had approved the abolition of the price of love and that it would enter into force on 1 January 2021. But now there is a lot of uncertainty as to who would be eligible for the abolition of the price of love. Its abolition would apply only to persons with disabilities who receive an integration meeting and to persons who receive an income replacement allowance. The purpose of this allowance is therefore to compensate part of the income that is not earned by the disability. This would lead to discrimination with other concessions. As regards government communication, it is not entirely clear whether or not this decision has been introduced as of 1 January 2021. I have not found anything on this in the Official Journal, either in the decisions of the Council of Ministers or in the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. As far as the provision of information is concerned, there is still some uncertainty. That is why I had the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. Where was this decision finally published? Why is there a difference between the IT and the IVT? Isn't that a form of discrimination? What are the pain points in this file? What legislative initiatives will you take to translate this promise into practice for people with disabilities with an IVT? Will you ensure a more transparent communication to the right holders? How are eligible persons notified? How many people with disabilities will be able to benefit from this measure in the long term? What is the budgetary impact of this measure on an annual basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u60	Madam Secretary, a great deal has already been said about it. My question was specifically about income replacement. In addition to the questions I have already heard from colleagues, I would like to hear from the Minister what she thinks about Unia's question to specifically increase that income replacement. What measures or plans are going to be taken to specifically increase this income replacement? In society there are poignant stories of people where it really isn't enough to make ends meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u61	My second question concerns the price of work and the consequences for integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u62	All the questions about the abolition of the price of love and the reduction of the price of labour are at my heart. In the case of integration, the fundamental issue should be the recognition of a right based on compensation for the loss of self-reliance, nothing more. If other parameters are charged today, they can only be for budgetary reasons. The government has made a clear decision to tackle this injustice by finally putting an end to the system whereby the partner's income was included in the allocation of the integration meeting. The Council of Ministers adopted the Royal Decree on 23 December. The decision has yet to be published, but the principle has been in force since 1 January. The persons entitled to the integration meeting will be informed of the good news. My administration will automatically adjust the files of those who were entitled to an integration meeting, but received a lower amount, as their partner's income was included. The persons concerned will not have to submit a new application. In the case of the pending dossiers, the analysis will, of course, automatically take account of the amended legislation. Only those who do not receive benefits today will have to apply. In addition, we will launch a communication and information campaign to inform all possible stakeholders. This information will be disseminated not only through newsletters and the website of the DG Handicap of the FPS Social Security Office, but also through organisations representing the interests of persons with disabilities, such as the OCMWs and the sickness funds. As far as the price of labour is concerned, in December I submitted to the government a proposal for reform which follows the recommendations of the NHRPH. On the one hand, I want to adapt the exemption from professional income to the average wage and, on the other hand, to increase the exemption applied to replacement income. I have tabled this proposal on the table of the Council of Ministers, with the aim of responding to two issues. First of all, the aim was to prevent a worker who was unemployed from losing his integration benefit. That, in my view, would be a double and perfectly unjust punishment. It seems to me essential to bear in mind that 70% of the beneficiaries of this allowance do not work and therefore combine it with a replacement income. The reality of the professional world among persons with disabilities must be seen with lucidity. And I hope I can come back to discuss this with you. I want to strike a balance between who works and who doesn't. That's what the NHRPH wants. As far as the IVT is concerned, we need to look at the history of this benefit. There has never been talk of the price of love, but of the individualization of rights. I fully agree with this objective, but unfortunately this issue is not limited to the legislation for people with disabilities. The same applies to living wages, the IGA, pensions and so on. There is therefore a need for a general reform. However, with regard to income replacements such as the IVT, the government has decided not to wait and take immediate action. Therefore, rates in all categories are increased by 10,75 %, spread over the years 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, excluding indexations and welfare envelopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and your commitment. I think it is high time to get the information out quickly so that people who have already suffered a loss do not have to apply for it because it will be corrected automatically, even for the month of January, if it is only granted in February or March. Now there are still too many instances, such as the FPS Social Security, but also the mutualities, that give false information. They tell people to file a new application, which is not the intention, nor is it what we agreed. I would therefore ask you to disseminate this information urgently. Like you, I believe that integration is a means of enabling people to participate in society. It should never be reduced, not even by one euro. At present it is already solved for living together, but not for working. You say you want to reduce its effect. I hope that, in the long term, we will achieve a complete exemption from integration, so that no euro will be lost. As long as this is still happening, I would ask you never to set the integration package to zero. If people lose their integration completely, for example because they work and earn too much, it also means that they miss out on all kinds of derived rights, just because they do not enjoy integration. For example, they are not entitled to a free subscription from De Lijn, to a social tariff and so on because they are linked to the right to an integration meeting. So if necessary, you will have 1 euro left over to the integration meeting, but make sure that this never gets less and reaches zero, because then these people lose all the other rights. I suggest you put that system in place now, and I hope that we will never have to touch it in the long term. It is important that we should be able to safeguard the system against the costs associated with the disability, in particular the costs of participation. This isn't about an income. People without disabilities do not need this, but disabled people have to incur additional costs in order to participate in society. We should never take those benefits away from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Communication with this vulnerable target group is very important. There is a duality, as you know, for the sake of powers that are fragmented across different governments. That sometimes makes getting information very difficult. People really have to go their separate ways sometimes. I am therefore pleased that you are planning a communication and information campaign and that it will not only come from the government, but also from other channels. This is very important in order to ensure that those concerned are properly informed. As far as income replacement is concerned, you are talking, among other things, about living wages and the income guarantee for older people (IGO). I understand that, but these people really want to do their part. They are disabled but still want to be active, feel useful and not always sit at home. Those people are being punished. You mentioned a general reform. I hope you will take these people into account. A large target group is disadvantaged here because these people work. You mentioned the rates that will gradually rise until they reach the 10 percent cape, as stated in the policy statement. Of course, the intention is good, but it is only a tissue for bleeding. It is not enough for those involved, as Mr Ecolo-Groen said. It's a tissue for the bleeding. There really needs to be a general reform. We need to see which things can change. I sincerely believe that you will work on that. You can certainly count on our support to give those people what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Samyn. You have tabled a motion of recommendation. A simple motion was also tabled by Ms. Thémont. They will be dealt with in plenary session. Do you accept that I do not read the documents, that you will receive? )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u66	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Combating Poverty and Beliris, - since the Minister's policy statement indicated that the "price of love" should be abolished from 1 January 2021; - as this discrimination has for many years been one of the main complaints of persons with disabilities; - whereas persons with disabilities are to be financially punished for living or marrying with their partner, there may be discrimination; - because there is uncertainty as to who would be eligible for the abolition of the price of love; calls on the Government - to ensure clear and transparent communication to rightholders and to pro-actively inform the eligible persons; - to ensure that the abolition of the 'price of love' also applies to persons with disabilities who are paid an income replacement allowance.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Disabled Persons, the Fight against Poverty and Beliris, - since it is stated in the Minister's policy statement that the price of love will be abolished from 1 January 2021; - since this discrimination has been one of the main complaints of persons with disabilities for years; Whereas discrimination can be referred to as discrimination if persons with disabilities are financially penalized when they live in a couple or marry; - since it is not clear who will be taken into account for the suppression of the price of love; asks the government - ensure clear and transparent communication with the beneficiaries and proactively alert the beneficiaries; -to ensure that the abolition of the price of love also applies to persons with disabilities who receive an income replacement allowance." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. We can move on to Mrs. Creemers' reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u67	Madam Secretary, you have put a number of dossiers and proposals on the table. You also mention an increase of 10%, excluding indexations and the like. Those are all very good steps. It can go up, and that's very good. However, we must also have the courage to look at reality. We have to listen to people when they tell us that these concessions should actually be enough to cover all the extra costs associated with their disability, but that is not true in reality. We must dare to objectify whether that 10% is a tissue for bleeding, as Mrs Samyn said, or is really a step in the right direction. Hopefully you will also see with Unia whether that 10% is not an end point. They've got very extensive files on that. That 10% is already a step in the right direction, but we really need to listen to what people need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u68	The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u69	I refer to the written version of my question, which you have undoubtedly read thoroughly, Madam Minister. Madam President, Madam Minister, initially the 2020 Programme Act contained a total of 13 articles on the subject. statutory pensions. The 2020 Programme Act called for urgency for handling RvS. The RvS has not prevented the urgency of the pension provisions in the Programme Act except. the increase in IGA benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u70	Mr van der Donkt, for me, improving the statutory pension is a priority, not only with the increase in the minimum pension but also with the increase in the wage ceiling. The increase in the wage ceiling was initially included in the draft programme law. But as a result of the Council of State's remark that there was no grounds for urgency, we are now working on a draft law both to increase the calculation ceiling and to abolish the correction coefficient. The draft does indeed provide for an increase in the wage ceilings for calendar years 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024. These increases are necessary to prevent erosion of the ceiling. Therefore, the wage ceiling is increased to the same extent as the planned four increases in the minimum pension, taking into account the specific legal parameters for the welfare envelope. The first increase will apply to pensions effective and for the first time starting on 1 January 2022. Of course, no wage ceiling can be applied for periods when the citizen is already retired. Therefore, the occupational income of 2021 will be included to an increased extent for the calculation. However, the first expenditure will not take place until 2022, that is correct. Moreover, the adjustment is technically more difficult to implement than the increase in minimum pensions. The wage ceiling concerns the adjustment of one part of the pension calculation. The calculation shall also be carried out year by year. Such an increase would entail a complete recalculation of the right and would lead to a new administrative decision. The increase in the wage ceiling will therefore be discussed in committee following a draft law. The opinion of the Council of State is now known and a number of adjustments are necessary. Therefore, the increase has no financial impact in 2021. However, there is a financial impact in 2022, not only as a result of the increase in the wage ceiling for 2021, but also as a result of the increase in the wage ceiling for 2022. For more detailed information on the abolition of the correction coefficient in the pension system for self-employed persons, please refer to fellow Minister Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u71	It is good to know that we are working on a legal basis for the adjustment of the wage ceiling. That's news to me. We'll follow up on the file. It will also be an interesting debate when the legislative text is discussed here or in the committee responsible. For the correction coefficient, please refer to your colleague Clarinval. I asked him the question last week. He gave me a very diffuse answer. I had hoped that you, as Minister for Pensions, would be able to give a more concrete answer. We'll follow the issue and we'll get out eventually.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u72	Mr Bombled, the last report by Unia is interesting in more than one way, whether it is to know the feelings of people with disabilities or whether it is the opinion on the various measures. Moreover, the analysis of these recommendations will contribute significantly to the plan to be drawn up by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Even today, people with disabilities but who are able to work find it difficult to find a job. Accessibility of the company, of public transport to get there, of the workplace are all obstacles forcing them not to work. This is why accessibility is a major and central issue. Without that, I don't think anything is possible. As far as transport is concerned, improvements are planned under SNCB's 2025 Plan, which aims to adapt 72 stations by 2025. Sensitive to this question, I also met with the management of SNCB. The exchange was constructive and concluded with the SNCB's commitment to establish a sustained dialogue with the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities. I am sure that we can feed it and make sure that the sector is more directly involved. The issue of transport is not confined to trains. That is why it will be necessary to undertake a CIM Handicap in order to bring together all relevant stakeholders, federated entities and ministers in order to achieve the solid action plan for Handistreaming. Inclusion of persons with disabilities is a priority, as you will have read in the Policy Note. In addition to physical accessibility, we cannot ignore the importance of digital accessibility. Since 20 September 2020, the websites and mobile applications of public bodies must be accessible to persons with disabilities and adapted to their specific needs. The 2016 European Directive transposed at federal level since 2018 grants the supervision of this project to the Secretary of State in charge of Digitalisation, Mathieu Michel. I recently sent her a letter to ensure that this measure is implemented and that it is respected by all federal agencies. In addition to the issue of accessibility and the necessary adjustments, the under-representation of employees with disabilities in the world of work is also the result of the internalization of stereotypes. It is essential to break this image, including within our public services. That is why I intend to organise a consultation with the Minister of Employment, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, in order to develop awareness campaigns. I will also contact the National Labour Council in this regard. I will also work with Ms. Petra De Sutter, the Minister of Public Service. Indeed, some people with disabilities can and want to work, and must be able to contribute to our society in order to flourish. There will be a long way to go, as much remains to be done, but thanks to the involvement of all stakeholders, I hope we can finally make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear and welcome your willingness to improve the situation of people with disabilities. Indeed, I believe that improvement should cover various aspects such as communication to this vulnerable group, but also minimum social protection or employment measures targeting our citizens with disabilities, not to mention making federal infrastructure and services more accessible and inclusive to them. In any event, I thank you for this comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u74	Madam President, Madam Minister, in recent months the federal government has given additional support to the OCMWs to provide additional support to new clients. In addition, a further EUR 50 has been paid to beneficiaries for six months. At the beginning of September, the OCMW associations criticised the administrative burden involved in proving the additional support for the PPS Social Integration. We have already discussed this in the context of your policy paper. You said that a few steps were being taken and I wonder if you can give an update on this. My next question in this connection is more important. In these difficult times we still have cases of people whose living wages are suspended or stopped. In the current sanitary situation, for example, it is difficult to organise physical contact between the social assistant and the client. It is also more difficult for clients to meet the activation conditions, because there are much fewer vacancies and much less opportunities for formation. For Ecolo-Green, it is important to deal fairly with the conditions set out in the GPMI. Therefore, I wonder what guidelines have been given to the OCMWs from the PPS Social Integration about dealing fairly with, for example, activation obligations, contacts and other conditions of the GPMI, as it is more difficult for many OCMW clients to meet them in these times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u75	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, in recent months the government has taken urgent measures to support the most vulnerable people and also the OMCWs, so that they can fulfil their duties. The challenge was to address unprecedented situations as well as possible. In addition to the measure to extend the EUR 50 premium, the government granted an additional EUR 7 million to the OMCWs in the context of food aid and allocated EUR 10 million to the fight against loneliness. The aid scheme for scholarship students was also extended. Moreover, social benefits will be increased from 1 January, as you know. In the case of the OMCW aid, several measures were adopted very recently. The increase in the reimbursement rate of living wages was extended. A EUR 10 million grant was awarded to cover staff and operating costs under the covid pandemic. There was also the rehabilitation of the federal intervention in the framework of the flat rate on personnel costs per file for an amount of EUR 8.4 million. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, I cannot deny that the OMCWs need to be supported, given the role they play and will continue to play in the coming months. In this respect, some measures do not require additional controls. This is the case for the 55 euro premium. As you know, that premium is automatically granted. The co-vid measure is intended to provide support tailored to each individual's specific needs. The procedure is the same as the usual additional social support provided by the OMCW. In order to guide the OMCWs in the new policy, a number of procedures were introduced, in particular a note drawn up with the three OMCW federations, as well as a webinar on the measures and FAQs available on the website of the Social Integration PPS, which are regularly updated. Various instruments were also made available to the OMCWs, such as a leaflet, so that local authorities can apply the measures in favour of persons in difficulty. At the end of September 2020, a communication campaign was launched via social media. There will also be a webinar for OCMW's.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u76	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you once again for summing up all the extra support we give to the OMCWs in this way. We are extremely dependent on these OMCWs to help the most vulnerable people, who are now, of course, growing in numbers in the crisis. It's through the OMCWs that we have to do that. It is very good that all kinds of initiatives have been taken to ensure that the information is also clear, including the fact that in certain cases there is no additional control. I had one specific question, where I would like to come back later, to round the whole hatch. Are there any guidelines given by the POD to the OCMWs on fair management of resources? Was there an extra signal given to the OCMWs? In my own OCMW in Ghent I have faith and there I can ask some questions. I hope, however, that this will be the case throughout the country and that the particularity of the current crisis will be taken into account when it comes to customer demands. I hope that very careful thought will be given to when people's incomes start to be suspended or stopped. I believe that alternatives must always be sought in order to be able to work well with these clients again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u77	Madam Minister, in a remarkably precise report, the Court of Auditors states that the government's policy of encouraging supplementary pensions goes beyond its objective and is rather a source of inequality. As currently applied, government policy primarily allows a small group of beneficiaries to obtain an additional pension by optimising social and fiscal pressure. It is important to point out that workers whose annual income does not reach €58,446.94 have no interest in turning an increase into gross wages to finance a supplementary pension. In its report, the Court of Auditors makes a number of recommendations aimed at improving the effectiveness of incentives, both social and fiscal, for the creation of supplementary pensions: application of traditional social contribution rates in the event of exceeding the Wijninckx threshold, control of arrears, limitation of the deductibility of deposits and management by a single actor. It would be useful to start thinking about improving the legal pensions of the first pillar. Following the publication of this report, you indicated in the press that this situation was unacceptable. What measures are you going to take to promote the legal pension in the first pillar and to limit the use of supplementary pensions, which are a source of inequality? Do you intend to undertake specific actions to reduce the gap between the legal pensions of men and women as a matter of priority, paying particular attention to supplementary pensions? What do you think of the specific recommendations made by the Court of Auditors? Have discussions ever taken place with the Minister of Finance? What concrete actions will be taken for both the statutory and supplementary pension? The coalition agreement stipulates that each employee must form a supplementary pension on the basis of a contribution equal to at least 3% of his or her gross salary. In this respect, consideration must be given to a process of harmonization between workers and employees. Will the financing of the supplementary pension supplement the wage margin for wage developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u78	Madam Minister, I would just like to refer to November and December, when we had the budget debate here, and to my speeches in which I referred to the second and third pillars and the famous cappuccino model. At that time we got some funny reactions from our liberal friends, but I was portrayed as a populist who thought the first pillar was important. If I now look at the figures of the Court of Auditors in the new study on supplementary pensions, what I mentioned here in November and December is clear. Three quarters of the Belgian labour force is affiliated to supplementary pensions and the reserves acquired amount to almost EUR 86 billion. There is little to say about this: there is a great inequality behind it, which I have already mentioned a number of times. Supplementary pensions are pensions of inequality. For the majority, this is at most a modest addition to the legal pension, just what one needs not to live, but to survive after retirement. For the elite, it is an instrument to avoid taxes and social contributions. Why do I say that? Hold on. Seventy percent of pensioners together received 10% of paid-up supplementary pensions. Seventy percent represent 10% of that amount, while one percent stood at the top twenty percent of that amount. There is no limit on how much one can sneak into the supplementary pension. Many of those one percent also charge those payments in the second pillar pension, in order to get an unjustified tax reduction. The government lost almost 900 million euros of revenue. Sancties in falen controls. Supplementary pensions will thus be a useful shortcut to avoid taxes and social contributions. What do you propose to seal off these shortcuts? How does this study affect your plans to extend the second pillar pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, you have all read the report of the Court of Auditors well. I welcome this because it contains an important analysis for the implementation of the government agreement, in particular the solidarity between the highest and lowest pensions. The Court of Auditors makes it clear that supplementary pensions are currently very unevenly distributed. You said it. On the one hand, there is a very large group which does not constitute rights or very few, and on the other hand, there is a very small group which uses the second pillar as an instrument for social and fiscal optimisation. The latter are capable of generating very large capital, with the support of the federal state through favourable tax and parafiscal treatment. As Minister of Pensions, I cannot accept such inequality as a result of fiscal and parafiscal policies. That's right! A second pension pillar supported by the government must be social or not. For me, this is an objective of the reform that I want to implement. It will be a reform that promotes confidence, solidarity and transparency. It is a question of developing a comprehensive and fair vision, a strong first pillar, and a more solidary supplementary pension. My attention will go both to the very high supplementary pensions on the one hand and to the small supplementary pensions on the other. The Court of Auditors has made a number of interesting proposals which you have noted. I take the example of high supplementary pensions. The Court proposes that the exemption from social contributions should no longer apply to pensions which exceed the maximum pension in the public sector. This is clearly in line with the objective I am pursuing in the reform. That is why I will work with my colleague, the Minister of Finance, to achieve something much more social, supportive and equitable. On the underside, being little or no supplementary pensions, there is still a lot of work. The aim is to achieve a minimum level of contribution of 3% for all employees. My services are currently working on a detailed analysis of the current landscape. On this basis, we invite the social partners to examine how they wish to achieve this goal as soon as possible. In return, it seems to me important to guarantee an interest rate and a rate of return. Workers cannot be asked to take out part of their purchasing power if they are moving forward now, and at the same time not to guarantee their purchasing power when they have their pension. This also seems to me to be another balance that we must achieve and that is not guaranteed today. Another aspect of my policy is the harmonization of supplementary pensions for workers and employees. The ball is currently on the side of the social partners and remains there for the time being. Together with my colleague, the Minister of Labour, I follow this issue very closely, like him. As you know, equal treatment between men and women is fundamental to me. This should also be the case for the second pension pillar. One of the reasons why women are building up lower supplementary pension rights is that they are more often employed in sectors that offer no or lower supplementary pensions. If the social partners reach a minimum contribution level of 3%, this will inevitably reduce the pension gap. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Solidarity between the highest and lowest pensions is played here: at the intersection of legal and supplementary pensions. I must not explain to you that solidarity and redistribution form my red line.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u80	Madam Minister, you will not be surprised that we fully agree with your analysis: a solid first pillar and then solidarisation through that second pillar. I hear that you have started all kinds of things: the analysis that will be carried out by the services in order to cover 3% for all employees and the harmonisation in the hands of the social partners of pensions for workers and servants. You know that we are a loyal partner when it comes to greater equality in pensions, including between men and women. Work's started. You have a long way to go, and I assume it is an important road for you. Unfortunately, we are only at the beginning of this governance period because we have taken a long time to form a government, but we will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is true that we have already had the discussion here in connection with the policy statement. You also pointed out at the time that a strong legal pillar is the essence for you. I agree. Anyone who has worked and paid contributions must be able to count on a statutory pension, which can be lived well. This is confirmed by the Court of Auditors that supplementary pensions are mainly a source of inequality between higher incomes, which indeed use that to avoid paying taxes and social security contributions, and those who worked for lower incomes and thus get the crumbs. I am very pleased to hear that, in generalising the second pillar, you will take into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, especially as regards the ceiling on the exemption from social security contributions, and that there are sufficient guarantees for an adequate supplementary pension. However, I remain concerned about the people who are now working on low incomes and who often do not make ends meet at the end of the month. It is also important for them to be able to gain more purchasing power both now and in the future in order to live well while they work. Finally, when it comes to the position of women, that generalisation can indeed reduce the pension gap. I would like to remind you of the bill that I have tabled and which has already been discussed at the National Labour Council for a pension split in those supplementary pensions, precisely to increase the pensions of women who have worked on lower wages or who have had a career other than men.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers. I always want to stress the importance of strengthening the first pillar by ensuring that we do not allow wage increases to be converted into supplementary pension allowances until the statutory pension ceiling is reached. In this regard, I would like to give a very concrete example, which shows the inequality between men and women. In the cleaning sector, where there are 85 per cent women, a part-time majority, a supplementary pension is introduced at the rate of 0.5 per cent. It would have been more advantageous for women workers to have a 0.5 per cent wage increase for their legal pension than to have peanuts through the supplementary pension. The second point I would like to make is that if we want to move forward in this context, the 3% should not be included in the wage margin; indeed, at that time it is very clearly only the workers who will finance their own supplementary pension without any interest for them. I really ask that we be very vigilant about this and that we do everything possible to avoid inequalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u83	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that you share the same concern about inequality, Madam Minister. The strong first pillar will really need to be strengthened. I've been talking to your colleague twice over the last two weeks about IPA. So I'm following my comrade Goblet. We are also concerned that the lowest wages themselves should not be paid for the second pillar. There is nothing as uncertain as the second pillar. I've had 30 years of trade union experience. The first time we secured a return of 3.2 % for the first pillar, this was also reduced to 1.75 %. So I'm on my guard. You can say that you are not the minister of words but of deeds, but I hope that you will not be flogged back in this one and will be able to live up to what you are saying here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u84	Mrs. Fonck's not here. His question is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u85	Madam Chair, my answer is bilingual because Ms. Fonck had also asked a question; but she is not present. Dear colleagues, it is important not to confuse the two dossiers, which are nevertheless involved in your questions. On the one hand, there are the new policies that I have been pursuing since I took office, which relate to the structural increase in minimum pensions to the net amount of EUR 1,500. This increase was the subject of a decision and is published annually on January 1st until 2024. The minimum pensions will thus be increased to a rate of increase of 22% by 2024. This is an essential reform to ensure solidarity; it is now done and I welcome it. On the other hand, there are the decisions of the FPS Finances regarding the professional discount. The holding tax was adjusted, irrespective of the increase in the minimum pension. Reportedly, there were several complaints from pensioners last year. They suddenly had to pay taxes and that while their situation had not changed. I recognize that the temporality, that is to say, January 1st, was far from optimal. The average amount for the increased farm levy, and thus the lower net amount, is around EUR 5. This is, of course, an important amount for many pensioners. This is somewhat watered down for some of them. This is because of the increase in the minimum pension and the limits for the ZIV contribution that I have decided. That's a good thing, 'cause that's what matters. Today's purchasing power is to be increased for pensioners. My administration, the Federal Retirement Service, was aware of the modifications very late. A message was sent out personally to everyone via eBox because this is too important. More information was also provided on the website and the capacity of the free number was temporarily strengthened. Colleagues, I really regret the method because I myself, as a minister, learned the decision via the SFP, a few days before the end of the year, by a letter written by the SPF Finances to which I asked, as well as to its minister, for information and flow of information that is clearer, direct and transmitted in a better way. I really regret the confusion that this creates among pensioners. Last year, there were a lot of complaints about the taxes they had to pay at the end of the year. It is true that for some, 5 or 6 euros per month can be significant. It's a decision of the FPS Finances. It is imposed on us just as it is on pensioners. I repeat that they will not lose one euro of their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Indeed, it seems that this has happened rather unhappyly. It cannot be the intention that people should be surprised at the reckoning of their taxes. In order to avoid this, that measure has been implemented. However, because it had not been communicated, it was, of course, surprising for many pensioners that they suddenly saw less pension on the account. As you say, every euro counts for pensioners with a small pension. They also monitor their pension very closely. They will know immediately if there is a difference. It was therefore a great surprise to some that, on the one hand, it was announced that the minimum pension would increase, but, on the other hand, they saw less appearing on their accounts. We can make a distinction here between, on the one hand, the net path to EUR 1,500 and, on the other hand, the farm levy. Many pensioners consider that they simply have fewer pensions. In addition to the steps you will take with the FPS Finance and Finance Minister, in order to streamline and optimise communication flows in the future, I would urge that good communication be achieved for this measure as well. Not everyone looks on the website or on the eBox. It must be made clear that it is not a question of reducing pensions, but rather of facilitating tax accounting and ensuring that the path towards increasing pensions remains secure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u87	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You have partly answered my questions about the link with minimum pensions and the increase. You say very explicitly that there is no connection and that this is a somewhat unfortunate communication from the pension service. Particularly unfortunate of course, especially the reasoning that one builds up and can be found on the website. I quoted it in my question. They say: "In 2020, you had to pay less corporate tax on your pension. As a result, you may need to pay a little more for your personal income tax in 2021. This was the subject of many complaints from pensioners who had to pay extra." I don't quite understand. Those people have to give up their pensions and pay taxes on them in 2021. How can there be complaints about that? There is something thoroughly wrong with the communication service of the FPS Finance, in particular with regard to pensions. I have a question about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u88	Madam Secretary, communication is always the biggest problem. When we informed our constituents about the increase in minimum pensions and they were hopefully waiting for their first pension payment, they suddenly got less. The fear there is enormous, of 'yes, we do not need a raise, because if it actually goes to EUR 1,500, we will soon get a whole lot less and we will be taxing it even more'. I understand that anxiety, communication has always been a problem. You say here that you were surprised by the Finance Department, twice already: first with the miners and now again. I hope that we will not all be surprised by the Finance Service if you want to go so far as to effectively bring minimum pensions above EUR 1,500. I'm sure we'll keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u89	Madam Minister, thank you, on the one hand there is indeed the decision with this company tax to ensure that people are not surprised. There is nothing against that in itself, quite the contrary. I understand the great frustration you have expressed, and you will agree with me that this cannot be repeated in the field of communication. I would like to reinforce Mr Vanrobaey's suggestion: is it not necessary and possible to reassure people? It's about people being reassured in the end. Indeed, they confuse things and do not make that distinction. Let us in the government, through good cooperation, ensure that this will not happen again. I don't think you'd like to have this on your plate again, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u90	Mr Vanden Burre is not in a position to ask his question. This will therefore be moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u91	Madam Secretary, at Apache.be we could read how the financial watchdog FSMA exposed the ruins of Stéphane Moreau at the Ogeo Fund. The preliminary report of the FSMA contains 11 infringements, 5 recommendations and 1 focus. These are illegal loans, irresponsible investments, inadequate control of subcontractors and conflicts of interest. In addition, there is a $6 million war cash to pay out future bonuses, secret contracts, double fees, credit cards used for personal use and suspicious and very high lawyers' fees. I can go on for a while, but my speaking time is limited. All this happened with the pension savings of the employees of Liège's intercommunals such as Enodia. Madam Secretary, will you confirm the details that have appeared in the media? What are the penalties for infringements as they appear in the report? What is the risk that these malpractices will have an impact on the pension amount of the employees of the Liège intercommunals? To what extent does this case affect your plans to further expand the second pension pillar?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u92	Madam Chair, Mr. Vanden Burre also had to ask a question, so my answer is bilingual. Members, as you know, the FSMA is responsible for prudential supervision of pension funds. This monitoring concerns not only good governance but also financial management. In this context, the FSMA may, inter alia, carry out inspections to verify that the activities are carried out in accordance with the legal provisions. On the basis of a systematic risk analysis as well as third-party alerts, the FSMA selects a number of pension funds each year for an inspection. Where appropriate, the findings of such inspections may lead the FSMA to impose corrective measures or administrative fines. Under the OGEO Fund, the FSMA has carried out an inspection and the inspection is not yet complete. A draft report was sent to the OGEO Fund. Depending on any comments that may be made, the FSMA will assess the consequences and possible corrective measures to be imposed. If a pension fund does not operate in accordance with the rules to which it is subject and does not remedy the situation within the time limit imposed by the FSMA, the pension fund may take further measures. It could, among other things, require the replacement of directors or members of the executive committee; this does not, of course, prevent the Board of Directors of the OGEO Fund from taking internal steps to improve governance. On the other hand, the OGEO Fund's annual accounts show that its financing rate is well above 100%. This is important: the rights of affiliated members are not threatened. It must be emphasized, with everything we hear... Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Ogeo Fund is a pension fund responsible for managing statutory pensions and not supplementary pensions. The issue is therefore completely separate from the problem of generalising the second pillar of pensions. In summary, the investigation has not yet been completed. It was a first report. Yes, they're back and forth. I imagine that you will come back to me, if necessary, when the report is finalized. But all workers must be reassured, because the members of this Fund are not threatened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u93	Madam Minister, I would like to stress that we appreciate the good work of the FSMA. What really worries me is your plan. You referred to the second pillar earlier, but what you have now said worries me even more. You say that workers' pensions will not be threatened in the future. This unfresh case shows that because of the huge sums involved, pension funds are not immune to fraud and to abuses in management. For those here in the room who gloat that the PS is in a scandal again, this is not a problem that occurs only in the south of the country, let that be clear. Remember that our colleagues from the N-VA are just as involved as those from the Liège PS. The Ogeo Fund is a shareholder of Land Invest, the favourite project developer of the well-known mayor of Antwerp, and wasn't the former director of Land Invest an Open VLD? The interference of political parties in these funds really worries me. So that money finds its way from Liège to Antwerp, and then it lingers again in the pockets of those who don't need it, and the people stay behind with a gruesome feeling. And all of that with our money. In short, there must be a strong first pillar, certainly, and there must be monitoring of pension funds and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u94	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly because this was a personal attack on the N-VA. Mr Colebunders, with all due respect, I strongly reject your allegations on behalf of my party. I expect this to be included in the report. It's a little too cheap that you're going to throw dirt in the context of a very important file without any evidence. That's unheard of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u95	Let's avoid ad hominem attacks!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u96	I didn't mention a name. I've just mentioned a party, which is my right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u97	No, it was just in case! I was just anticipating.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u98	All right, we can discuss that. I would like to point out that you accuse me of making allegations without any evidence, but on Friday 20 October 2017, Erik Van der Paal organised a birthday dinner at the Antwerp star restaurant 't Sfornuis. I don't think I should talk to you about the trial. The film shows the political network around Land Invest Group and its close links with the Antwerp College of Ships. I can go on like this: I have a whole list of where you sit together in management boards, so stop flagrantly violating the rules of good governance at a high political level at a pension fund. Then it is clear, because now there is at least a suspicion that those who have no political responsibility will not be insensitive to it either. That's all I want to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u99	Mr Colebunders, I am not in a position to handle such a debate without all the elements and when names are mentioned. I would like the report to state that this discussion is not normally appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u100	This discussion may also not be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u101	Minister, this is not my decision. It belongs to the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u102	Madam Member, I share your concern about Statbel's report of 14 January on material and social deprivation in 2020, as part of the European survey. These figures show that poverty and insecurity are not decreasing in our country, despite previous plans. I say it without throwing reproach at my predecessors. I am all the more concerned that the unprecedented health crisis that our country is going through is accompanied by an economic and social crisis for many months or even years. The observations and testimonies on the ground that I have gathered, particularly in the framework of Task Force 2.0, are eloquent in this respect. There is therefore a particular momentum, an unprecedented urgency, issues that need to mobilize the entire government as part of the future federal plan to combat poverty. It will therefore have to face enormous challenges, perhaps never before, in terms of ambitious and resilient social policy. Its construction is under way. I wish to avoid the mistakes of the past, revealed in particular by the evaluations carried out by the Court of Auditors. So I'm working on better governance. I would also like to anchor this plan in the realization of fundamental social rights: health, income, work – all the more fundamental given the health crisis. It only confirms that we must work towards a more equal and inclusive society. As you will understand, I take the opportunity of the challenge of this plan to make it a real means of preventing and combating poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u103	Minister, it is true that the implementation of this fourth federal plan to combat poverty is all the more important in this socio-economic context. We also see, according to Oxfam's latest report, that it would take more than ten years for the poorest people to recover from the economic impact of the pandemic. I know that you are a fieldman and you are aware that it is women and marginalized groups who are most likely to be in poverty; they do not always have the means to eat to their hunger and are often excluded from access to health services. As you said, it is therefore urgent to put in place specific measures to support these more vulnerable target audiences as well. I am glad to hear you say that this is being built and that we are moving towards a more egalitarian and inclusive society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u104	Madam President, Minister, I received a letter from the Federal Pension Service in a favourable wind. It suggests that the increase in a monthly amount of pension, by January 2021, is due to the pension reform of the De Croo government. If you surf for pension reform.be, you will also find yourself on the Pension Reform De Croo page. The Federal Pension Service rightly carries out a number of major tasks. Point 4 states: "We support policy work. For this we make our data, analyses and expertise at strategic, legal, financial and actuarial level available to policy makers." Of course, that's a noble assignment. ' With regard to the letter that came to me, I have the following questions. Where is the boundary between supporting policy work on the one hand and advertising a government and its pension reform, which has not yet been implemented at all? Does the Federal Pension Service perhaps have more information than the Chamber of Representatives? Have all pensioners who have been subject to more corporate tax on their pensions since 1 January 2021 also received such a letter referring to the pension reform of the De Croo government? Was such a page also on the website of the Federal Pension Service under the previous government, referring specifically to the Michel Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u105	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, I note that you blame the government for taking important measures for the social protection of pensioners. I also note that you blame the government for trying to restore confidence in pensions, which has been severely affected in recent years. Moreover, it seems to me that you blame me for calling on my administration to implement these measures. I am very clear: we are implementing reforms that restore confidence, and we are doing so together with our strong public services. So I'm not getting carried away in this kind of polemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u106	Madam Secretary, with all due respect, your findings are completely wrong. I did not say that I am attacking you because of your pension reforms or that I condemn the adjustment of minimum pensions. I am concerned about the neutrality of public services. I do not think it is possible for party politics to be played through public administrations. It refers to the 'De Croo Government', but it simply needs to be referred to as 'the government'. Finally, it is not Mr De Croo who is carrying out the reforms, but you, because you should have been angry, as Mrs Lalieux's pension reforms should have made it possible to write. It is a communication aspect, because it is wrong to refer explicitly to Mr De Croo, Member of Open Vld, while pension reforms are, in my opinion, your merit. So I am not attacking the communication about the reforms, but I am attacking the use of the name De Croo. Perhaps you remember that former Minister Van Overtveldt wanted to explain the tax shift arrangements, which he also did by letter through the government's communication channels. The barf was too small. I remember the speeches made by Mr Laaouej at the time. Now we are talking about exactly the same thing, but communication is not going directly now, it is going through a detour. I therefore propose that you ask the pension services to avoid such communication in the future. That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u107	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, it is true that there are different applications in social security today depending on the department concerned. I also agree with you that we should link these applications together. We are talking here about a medium to long-term project that goes beyond pensions. Our vision for pensions is that we provide citizens with a clear overview of their careers, so that they can make certain choices in life and better assess the impact of, for example, a career break, but that requires agreements between the various institutions and the necessary IT adjustments to be made. For self-employed and civil servants, modules are currently being developed that will be submitted to the services concerned. In order to integrate the various applications of social security into an ecosystem, an architecture is needed that supports this vision. This project will require an ambitious investment policy, which will also determine the time limit for implementation. For the rest, I refer to the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u108	Madam Minister, I know that it is a competence involving three ministers, and that is why I asked three ministers anyway: you, the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Social Affairs. However, you are in the same government, so you have to put your head together and work together on a system to ensure that if people choose to take a certain type of leave, for example, time credit or medical assistance leave, they will not only find out through the website what they are entitled to, for example, how much time credit is left over from the 51 months to which they are entitled, what contributions are being paid for certain types of career break, but at the same time they will also see what effect that has on their pension. Some interruptions, such as care leave, are fortunately counted for the pension, but only for a lump sum. Not all people are well aware of this. That is why we launched a proposal with the CD&V a long time ago to introduce a CPS, such as a GPS, which is a career planning system. That would be a sort of card, so that when you register on the website it is suddenly known which leave the person concerned has already recorded and which one he still has, but also what effect the taking of leave has. I would therefore ask that this be done effectively in consultation with the two competent colleagues. Someone who can certainly help and who you will probably also know is Mr Frank Robben of the Crossroads Social Security Bank. In the past, he has already worked out all kinds of projects for various ministries. In Flanders, for example, there is a sort of law explorer. The career planning system may therefore also be something for him or for his service, to participate in and effectively ensure that people find out automatically or quickly what they are entitled to, so that they quickly know the effect of the leave on their later retirement. Especially for women, that's not uninteresting. Sometimes, for example, they take up all kinds of engagements, to which they are also entitled. However, they sometimes do not realise enough that this means less pension at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u109	Mrs. Lanjri, I agree with you. That is also our ambition, but it is a difficult task for the Crossroads Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u110	Madam Minister, in October 2020 I asked a question about the increasing number of people using the food banks and the European funds that Belgium receives for this from the React EU fund. The total amount of this package is EUR 47.5 billion. This money is distributed among the Member States and may, among other things, flow to the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived. In October 2020 it was not quite clear how much money Belgium would receive. That is why I have a number of questions. Can you tell us the total national envelope that Belgium received under that package? It consists of three Funds: FEAD, ERDF and ESF. It was necessary to discuss with the Länder how much budget is allocated to which fund. Have these intra-Belgian negotiations been concluded? Are additional funds provided for FEAD and do you think that the amount foreseen will be sufficient to meet rising demand in corona times?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u111	Mrs Reynaert, after the crisis, the European Union has released an exceptional package of EUR 47.5 billion. From this fund Belgium will receive a sum of 260 million this year and an estimated EUR 17 million next year. React EU needs to cope with the effects of the crisis by increasing support for the most vulnerable in our society. They suffer most from the pandemic. With this fund we could respond to the increased demand for food aid. However, we must not forget that this increase cannot be explained solely by the crisis. The demand for food in our country has been rising continuously since 2014. In 2014, 225,000 people were helped by the food banks in Belgium. In 2019, that was 410 000 people. This is an increase of 83%. That is why I have called on the Länder to take account of this structural and cyclical increase. The discussions on the allocation of resources are still ongoing, but are almost over. They're still one or two weeks away. In any case, I am convinced that the Länder will be attentive to our fellow citizens who need food aid, and that they will make the necessary resources available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u112	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will perhaps ask the question again next month, but I will ask you in advance for the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u113	Mrs Samyn, there are new worrying figures every day about the crisis. The Oxfam report "An Inequality Virus" unfortunately confirms how vulnerable the poorest sections of the population are to COVID-19. This crisis only makes social inequality more poignant, including in the area of health. These are, of course, shocking findings. Since I was a minister, I have been concerned about the impact of the crisis on people who are very vulnerable. That is why I put the Vulnerable Groups Task Force to work, with a budget of EUR 75 million. This task force consists of organisations active in the field, associations and the National High Council for Persons with Disability. The corona Commissioner and representatives of the relevant ministers of the federal government and the sub-governments also take part. The federal government has already taken several measures based on concrete findings on the ground. The issue of health and inequality in prevention policy and vaccination has, of course, been addressed, even this morning. The challenge is to reach our entire population. Communication and information are essential. Experience experts play an important role in this, as does the future community health manager. Their task is to be present on the ground, to lead vulnerable groups to care and to develop prevention strategies against covid. This pilot project, launched by my colleague from Health Frank Vandenbroucke, is the task force's initiative. In addition to the observation that the corona crisis is accompanied by health inequalities, it is of course very important that we tackle the problem in a structural way. In this respect, I am working on a new anti-poverty plan involving the entire government. The health element will, of course, be clearly present in this. Our social protection system must not leave anyone in the cold. We will do all this directly in consultation with the parties concerned. I also intend to play an active role in the various inter-ministerial conferences and to work together on the principle that we can achieve more together than each individual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u114	Madam Secretary, the figures don't lie. Poor people are more at risk of corona contamination. They are also much more financially affected, even in Belgium. There was already an exponential increase at the food banks. Today, 20,000 people use that food bank. That's incredibly much. I am also very concerned about the high mortality rate among vulnerable groups. I am pleased that you have already discussed this and that the task force will, in any case, provide you with an extra budget for poverty, and certainly inequality. I am also pleased that you will focus on sensitisation and the provision of information. It is indeed very important that the information should reach the vulnerable groups. Thank you in advance for that commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u115	Minister, it is our responsibility that some people have been knocking on the door of the CPAS and have been denied the granting of a RIS because they were owners. On the one hand, if my checks are correct, owners are entitled to the RIS if the other conditions are met, of course. As ownership is a form of resource, the CPAS takes this resource into account when calculating the RIS. But once the calculation is done, the allowance is of course reduced and does not necessarily allow for a dignified living above the poverty line. In fact, I was able to see extremely low amounts, once this calculation had been made. On the other hand, this period of crisis has a significant impact on people who have been able to finish the month thanks to their income and to pay for their loan. Once their economies have been reduced to nothing because they have been used to alleviate the effects of the crisis, they are now in situations of reversal in very dangerous precarious conditions. As I said today, recently, EUR 110 million has been allocated to CPAS for "new beneficiaries" who, for lack of resources during the crisis, need additional assistance. Minister, do you confirm that homeowners are eligible for assistance and that this is not a sufficient reason to refuse a RIS? Given that, among the new beneficiaries, there are people who have so far preserved their monthly budget thanks to income that is not currently available, do you consider that the exceptional nature of the situation must be taken into account and that owners should therefore be allowed to benefit from the aid referred to above?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u116	Mrs Leroy, I confirm to you that being a owner is not a sufficient reason to refuse to grant the RIS. In other words, being a landlord does not mean that you cannot benefit from RIS or any social assistance. In this context, a calculation is made to estimate the proportion of real estate in the income of the person concerned on the basis of unindexed cadastral income and the number of children in the household. As you know, the social survey for the 110 million euros – 115 million euros in fact – must take into account both the decline in income and the increase in expenditure. That's what the decree says. If it turns out that after this calculation, a right to RIS or social assistance will open up, the CPAS will have to grant this aid to these new beneficiaries who have lost their income as a result of the health crisis. I would remind you that this is a simplified investigation. It is not because the family or the person still has a savings account that they have to empty their savings account to receive additional assistance. It is not because she still has income that she cannot receive additional aid. We really need to see if there is a decrease in revenue or an increase in spending. In this case, CPAS, based on an individual file, can support and assist the individual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u117	Madam Minister, thank you because your answers confirm what I thought and will be used to say it. Today there are many complex paths. I know you're a fervent defender of rights automation. At this time of crisis, the millions allocated to these new beneficiaries do not always find the right path, which is really problematic for many people. Here is a very concrete example. A person who is independent and complementary, who has lost his work as a supplementary self-employed person, who has not contributed sufficiently to benefit from the partial bridge right, and who is also unable to benefit from the assistance of the CPAS because he is told that he is the owner and that he still has another income, but who, in the end, does not get away with the calculation, has no answer at all. I think it's extremely difficult. However, it seems to me that, according to the criteria you recall, she should be able to benefit from it: loss of income, additional expenditure, etc. I'll go back to those people who ask us a lot. I imagine you, too, receive this kind of e-mail every day. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u118	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 18 January 2021, the monthly plenary session of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities took place. A number of concerns were raised at that meeting. One of the concerns was the file handling in DG HAN. The amount of files to be dealt with is already quite high and is likely to increase seriously under the influence of a number of factors that you are absolutely familiar with. I won't mention them. They're listed in the written question. Another concern is to inform rightholders and potential rightholders about the abolition of the 'price of love' and the reforms on income replacement. A number of Members have already indicated that some reforms will automatically apply, which you have confirmed and which is reassuring. Some, however, also require effective action from those involved. We know that the vulnerable do not always find the way to the authorities to make the application. They are not all digitally skilled either. I have three questions. Firstly, how will rightholders or potential rightholders be informed of the reforms, not only in terms of integration meetings but also in terms of IVT? By what means, channels and actors can this happen? I know that you have already given some answers, but I would also like to know whether you will also use wider social actors. After all, that is important. Secondly, is there also a concrete plan to eliminate the delay in the file? Thirdly, what progress has been made with the development of TRIA, the future ICT file-handling programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u119	Madam President, Mrs Vanpeborgh, should I repeat what I said earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u120	Madam Secretary, you don't have to repeat everything. The first is whether you also see a role for all social players in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u121	Mrs Vanpeborgh, as far as the social players are concerned, the professionals will be further informed in a different edition of the newsletter addressed to them. The POD Social Integration will inform OCMW employees via a newsletter. By the end of January 2021, messages will be published in our other more general newsletters, such as social news and e-news. Ready-to-use messages that DG HAN's partners can share through their channels are available in the toolkit on the website of my administration. Professionals can also submit their questions for a FAQ on this website. I will make sure that my administration's instructions to the professionals are as clear as possible so that they can assist the citizens as best they can. It is true that the implementation of the new measures decided by the government from January will have an important impact on the workload of the administration. This impact is mainly due to the reduction of the minimum age to 18 years, the abolition of 'the price of love' and the reform of 'the price of labour'. It is estimated that 60,000 current rightholders will be impacted. For these files, the administration is obliged to review its decisions automatically. An internal plan has been drawn up to temporarily increase the capacity for processing files. The purpose of this plan is to process the inflow of files within the legal deadline for processing the applications, in particular six months. The development of TRIA, the future ICT programme to replace the current obsolete TETRA, started in 2020 and is in full swing. This development is gradual with a duration of up to 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u122	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. They were very clear and reassuring. I particularly hope that implementation will be smooth, because that is of course very important for all right holders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u123	Mrs Willaert, as regards the reduction in age, all young adults who currently enjoy the recognition of their disability and who are between 17 and 20 years old will be informed individually by letter. They will be invited to provide the necessary additional information to activate their right. With regard to your question on the revision of duties, I would like to add a table of all the information to my reply. Indeed, the rights to compensation are often reviewed in practice. More than 16% of processed applications are revised applications. This has to do with, as you also mention, the changed state of health of the right holders. With regard to integration, you are right to draw attention to the importance of completing the questionnaire properly. It is therefore important that people with disabilities are well accompanied in completing the questionnaire. For this purpose, they can rely on a wide network of social workers. These are active within the DG Persons with Disabilities, the sickness funds, the OCMWs and the numerous associations for persons with disabilities. The questionnaire is an important part of the decision. The evaluating doctors take into account that the assessment of the situation of the persons is also subjective. The purpose of the assessment is to evaluate capacities not at one time, but over a long period of time. This helps to level the fluctuations and to give a more coherent picture. The adaptation of the questionnaire is part of the action plan of the DG Persons with Disabilities, which is currently being prepared in consultation with my cabinet. I agree with your comment on the need to adapt terminology and even regulation in line with regional changes. This can be discussed at an inter-ministerial conference. However, in the last six years no IMC has been organised. I confirm that I intend to organise an interministerial conference shortly. I'll have the tables with my answer delivered to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very full answer. I notice that we agree on about everything, which is very nice. I would also like to thank you for your initiative to bring together the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We believe that dialogue between the Communities and the Regions is important in a country such as ours, especially when powers are fragmented. Above all, we must ensure that the citizens are not the victims of this fragmentation. We look forward to it and follow it up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u125	Madam President, Minister, this conference is very important in order to be able, in cooperation with the regions and the communities, to tackle the problem of poverty in our country in a structural way. I should like to call it a disgrace that this conference has not met since 2014, something Ides Nicaise wrote an opinion document on not so long ago, underlining the importance of that conference in order to be able to move forward in the structural approach to poverty. Your policy paper says that you will convene that inter-ministerial conference. Have you already taken an initiative in this respect and what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u126	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, the Inter-Ministerial Conferences have recently been organised. For my powers, I will participate in the following inter-ministerial conferences: first, Mobility, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, second, Labour Market Policy, Socioprofessional and Social Integration, third, Sustainable Development, fourth, Major City Policy, Integration and Housing, fifth, Welfare, Sport and Family and sixth, Women's Rights. I certainly intend to use my participation in these overarching consultative bodies to further develop and implement the federal plans for which I am competent. I am thinking in particular of the four poverty reduction plans and the Federal Action Plan Handistreaming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u127	Madam Minister, it is clear that you think dialogue is very important in our country, not because we like talking to each other, but because it is important to have a coherent policy for the citizens. There's a lot of work on the shelf. I wish you every success in representing the interests of our citizens in the various inter-ministerial conferences, especially the more vulnerable citizens, given your powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic354x.u128	This concludes the oral questions. Thank you, Minister, for the time devoted to answering all these questions. I guess you must be a little tired. We can leave here. We'll be back next week. Good night, everyone.
