ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u1	Madam Minister, for me it's a first. You know that we are all concerned with the climate. As an entrepreneur, it is important for me not only to see slogans, but also solutions and not just warning signals, but also action. I am counting on you and am curious to hear the questions and especially their answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u2	Mr President, I welcome the cooperation I will have with you and the members of the committee. I wish you a successful year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u3	Madam Minister, the COP26 Climate Summit is about to start in Glasgow. At that summit, the federal government wants to be able to present a series of concrete measures to reduce CO2 emissions. In an interview in L'Echo, your party chairman recently stated that the translation of the climate objectives into concrete measures is one of the priorities with which the government now has to work after the summer recess. You yourself would have an agreement that all the ministers would have to put their proposals on the table by 30 September, and that is no longer so long. I have two brief questions. Which members of the government have already shared their proposals with you and what does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u4	Mr Raskin, in view of the Glasgow climate summit, the political leaders of the various regions and the federal state have committed themselves in the National Climate Commission to reaching a political agreement at this summit on the distribution of the efforts and benefits of the Belgian international climate commitments. On the federal side, we want to be very cooperative in making this intention a reality and we are taking all the initiatives to contribute to it. A first step is, of course, the implementation of the federal ambitions set out in the National Energy and Climate Plan, the announced actions in the government agreement, the general policy paper and the policy statements, as well as the elaboration of a coherent set of adaptation measures. To this end, on 2 April, I received confirmation from the Council of Ministers that all members of this government are committed to introducing federal climate policies and measures. In addition, the competent ministers will draw up roadmaps with their administrations describing the process of implementation, with detailed planning of the required actions, the responsible administrations, institutions or companies, a timetable for implementation with the intermediate steps, a proposal of follow-up indicators and, where appropriate, the budgetary impact. I am therefore pleased to note that my call for a collective effort has been broadly echoed by all relevant ministers and administrations. The different roadmaps are as we speak discussed by the various policy cells. By the end of this month or the beginning of next month, we hope to be able to cut through a series of buttons within the government. The operationalisation of already formulated commitments is essential, but insufficient. To ensure that European emissions are at least 35% lower by 2030 than in 1990, the European Union will have to double its reduction efforts more or less by less than 10 years. The federal government firmly supports this European ambition and will take the additional measures it is responsible for doing so. In this context, I would like to invite the members of this committee to the Fit for 55 Conference. This event, which will be organised by my administration on Wednesday 6 October, will focus on this package and proposals from the European Commission, which will allow us to take note of the initial appreciations of the various stakeholders. Time is also foreseen for thematic discussion groups. I hope to meet you there. I am not answering your question about who submitted a road map. I work with my colleagues on Energy, Mobility and Taxation and also Health, which is also addressed by our adaptation plan. Within two weeks I will be able to give you more precise information, we are still negotiating.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u5	As you yourself say, you give a vague answer. À la bonne heure, you think there will be more news within two weeks, so I hope so. You say that the current commitments are not enough and that additional measures will be taken. I'm looking forward to seeing what's coming. Through the press, I have learned that you will be chair of one of those thematic working groups announced by the Prime Minister as a restart and transition plan, because the Vivaldi government also needs a new breath, more oxygen. I think it's nice that the Prime Minister himself realizes that you need new oxygen. You also indicate that you will deliver concrete news within two weeks. I'm looking forward to it, and we'll be sure to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u6	- Kurt Ravyts to Zakia Khattabi (Climate, Environment, Sustainable Development and Green Deal) on "The EU Nature Recovery Act as part of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030" (55020175C)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u7	- Kurt Ravyts in Zakia Khattabi (Climate, Environment, Sustainable Development and Green Deal) on "The EU law on nature restoration as part of its 2030 biodiversity strategy" (55020175C)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u8	Mr Ravyts, I suggest that you ask your two questions straight away, after which Mrs Hanus can join.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u9	Madam Minister, Kunming in China is the scene of the next UN Biodiversity Summit, COP 15, which will go digital between 11 and 15 October 2021, followed by a physical meeting next year. Belgium and the European Union have the ambition to define at this summit a global framework that will effectively restore, protect and make all ecosystems in the world resilient by 2050. One element of this is the initiative 30x30 for the oceans. Belgium is fairly prominent in this respect at the international forum. The intention is to have participating countries present a statement in October 2021 setting the target of protecting at least 30% of the Earth by 2030. However, the Nature Map Consortium is now proposing not to work on a country-by-country basis but to identify areas that are of global importance for both combating biodiversity loss and addressing climate change. A map highlighting these priority areas for biodiversity, with a view to a combination of biodiversity and carbon retention, is being developed. In summary, therefore, climate policy and species protection are to be coordinated more closely. On 12 July 2021, the first draft of the Biodiversity Agreement for Kunming was published with 21 global objectives. This summer it would be negotiated further. Madam Minister, can you explain the negotiations on the draft text? What was the Belgian contribution? How does Belgium assess the proposal to mark areas of global importance in which biodiversity is combined with climate policy? My second question concerns the EU Nature Recovery Act, which is a crucial part of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030. On 23 October 2020, the EU Council adopted conclusions on the 2030 Biodiversity Strategy. The Council supported the objectives, but underlined that the new European governance framework for biodiversity should be consistent with the principle of subsidiarity and that all proposals should be drawn up and developed in cooperation with the Member States. The EU Nature Recovery Act is one of the key instruments. Following the recent flooding problems in Belgium, nature organisations are asking for a more ambitious law with legally binding recovery targets for, among other things, floodplains, wetlands and all types of ecosystems that contribute to water retention and storage. The EU is already working on an impact assessment on the EU Nature Recovery Act. The public participation procedure was terminated on 5 April. After that, the impact assessment, which may already be over, followed. What was the federal government's approach to the impact assessment on the upcoming EU Nature Recovery Act or did the approach come solely from the Regions, since many powers in this area, if not all, are regional?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u10	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u11	From 23 August to 3 September, the first part of the third session of the Open-ended Working Group took place. This formal session continued in an integral virtual way and examined the first design of the post-2020 global biodiversity framework. As the EU speaks with a voice in international environmental forums, the summer was marked by intense negotiations at European level. Belgium has participated very intensively in this process with a view to achieving the highest level of ambition and also ensuring that the procedural aspects are taken into account, particularly in view of the exceptional circumstances in which these negotiations are still taking place. The international negotiations were very difficult, partly because of these circumstances, and again required many of the negotiators in view of the enormous time differences and technical constraints. Negotiations will resume in January 2022 when both the second part of the Open-ended Working Group and the subsidiary bodies of the Convention on Biological Diversity will in principle take place physically in Geneva. This is the last major negotiation step in the run-up to the CBD COP15 in Kunming China at the end of April and early May 2022. The inter-sessional work at both Belgian and European level to prepare for these negotiations which will take place in January 2022 will resume next week. Many proposals were made during the first part of the 3rd session of the Open Working Group by and through the active involvement of a wide range of stakeholders ranging from NGOs to other conventions and institutes, from the United Nations to the private sector, including academia, women, youth and indigenous and local populations. These various contributions are particularly appreciated by both Belgium and the European Union (EU) and are taken into account in the position-setting process at both levels which will resume in the course of next week, as previously said. The energetic approach to the various global crises is one of the driving forces behind both the Belgian position and the European position in environmental and international negotiations, as these crises require joint and urgent action not only in view of their problems but also the solutions to be provided. As for your second question, Mr Ravyts, there was no coordinated national response to the European Commission's public consultation on European biodiversity policy initiatives. The federal government has therefore, on its own behalf, provided feedback on the implementation of the biodiversity strategy for 2020 in order to take this experience into account in the implementation of the 2020-2030 strategy, including legally binding targets for nature recovery. The federal government responded to the public consultation with a view to ambitious binding targets consistent with the exemplary role it intends to play in the field of biodiversity. We want to make a concrete contribution to these restoration objectives with our infrastructure and our areas, in cooperation with the regions, to ensure the connectivity of the ecological network, and also to maximise the benefits of the recovery. Moreover, the restoration of marine ecosystems is a key element for the federal government, including in the context of the Blue Leaders. This depends on the restoration of other territorial and river-based ecosystems. In order to achieve these ambitious recovery objectives in Belgium, it is therefore important to ensure a comprehensive recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u12	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The common thread is, of course, the high level of ambition on biodiversity that the Belgian Government wants to demonstrate. I understand that my question is still a little too early and that the negotiations will apparently continue next week, so that we can reach a final stage. I hope that we in this committee will be able to pay some attention to this in the run-up to the final texts, regardless of the sessions with oral questions, given that an important resolution on biodiversity has been tabled by our colleague from Ecolo. It had to be treated very quickly. All right, then, we will continue to study the follow-up. I also note that the marine ecosystem plays an important role with regard to the European Nature Recovery Act, and in particular with regard to the federal part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your presentation and the answers you are giving us today. Indeed, in this Parliament, in this same committee, we have already had important work here on texts dealing with the issue of biodiversity. I will also mention a text that I am currently working on personally and which links biodiversity conservation to the emergence of pandemics. I wanted to bring it to your knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u14	I would like to point out that, if we had the Olympic Games in Antwerp in 1950, it was thanks to an ancestor who was the first president of the Football Federation and the first president of the Belgian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u15	Thank you, Mr. Leysen, for the little Laveleye family history course. Minister, we are coming out of an absolutely catastrophic summer. We have had deadly floods, just like in Germany and elsewhere. We have seen the warmest month of July ever and fires have been reported in numbers both in Europe and on other continents. This is a new call from our planet to remind us of the absolute urgency in which we are today. In the middle of this completely chaotic summer, on 9 August, the IPCC released the first part of its sixth report. The sequel will be published in a few months. The report presents a significant update on the previous one, dating back to 2014, in particular on the following three dimensions. First of all, the human responsibility for warming is no longer in doubt. If already known, scientists have been able to put the finishing touches on this inescapable responsibility of the human being in his activity on the climate. On the other hand, warming is under way, all over the world, already affecting all regions (some of which of course more than others). There is no longer any doubt in this regard. The 1.5°C threshold, which was collectively promised not to be exceeded, is inexorably approaching. The IPCC proposes five scenarios, and according to only two scenarios, the global temperature will not exceed 1.5°C in the 21st century, scenarios for a drastic reduction in CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. In short, even if there is no major discovery in this report, the news is bad, and the political response (especially at COP 26) must be up to date. We don't have a choice. Minister, following the first part of this alarming report, what are the lessons learned by the government? What are the short-term impacts of this report on the government's commitments and actions to date? How will this report influence the national preparation for COP 26?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u16	Mr President, Minister, my colleague has already outlined the picture of last summer. For those who still had doubts as to whether global warming was going on, the IPCC report, which was presented in part in August, has pushed us right into the facts. It is code red of humanity and it is clear that it is man who warms up the earth, the oceans and the atmosphere. The consequences are already making themselves felt, faster than expected. Warming also goes faster than was predicted ten years ago. Honestly, that report made me take a breather, like this summer's footage. On the other hand, stillness and panic will not help us in this situation. So it's up to our generation to act. I heard the President say it at his introduction: it is very important not only to make promises, but also to act. The Glasgow Climate Summit is the moment when the world must seize to make progress and look beyond what is feasible and affordable. Being flooded by even more natural violence will also not be feasible and affordable. What lessons does the government draw from that climate report? How is the Belgian preparations for the climate summit going? Does the climate report have any impact on our preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u17	Minister, this has been said and I repeat: on August 6, 2021, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC, released its sixth Assessment Report Climate Change 2021: the Physical Science Base. To say the least, the forecasts contained therein are catastrophic: a rise in temperature of 1.5°C by 2030, warming of the oceans, melting glaciers, rising levels of the oceans and increasing extreme weather events. The findings of the IPCC report are alarming, if not terrifying. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can we get your feedback on the conclusions of this report? On the other hand, the 26th United Nations Conference of the Parties on Climate Change, COP26, will be held in Glasgow from 1 to 12 November 2021. Can we be informed of the influence of the IPCC report on the ambitions to be defended by our country? In advance, Madam Minister, I thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u18	Mr President, the first part of the sixth evaluation report of the IPCC is indeed alarming and clearly points to the urgency of the measures to be taken to reduce the rise in temperature and to prevent the most harmful effects of climate change. In Belgium, as elsewhere, we must fight at the same time on two fronts, in particular in terms of mitigation, by drastically reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, and in terms of adaptation, in order to make our society more resilient to the consequences of global warming. On the issue of mitigation, the government made – as I have already said on several occasions – a significant decision last April that commits the entire government and relevant federal services to fully implement the policies and measures announced in the federal contribution to the National Energy-Climate Plan and to ensure its annual evaluation. Within the framework of this decision, each minister concerned has prepared roadmaps specifying the exact nature of the planned measures and their planning, as well as the indicators and methodologies for follow-up. The draft roadmaps were introduced in early summer and a more complete version will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the near future. This will mark the beginning of the annual monitoring and evaluation cycle of progress in the implementation of the various measures. Each year, a summary report will be prepared by the government and forwarded to Parliament on the progress of this implementation. However, we know that the measures developed under the NEFP will not be sufficient to achieve the increased objectives of Belgium, following the strengthening of climate ambitions at European level. I am referring to the target of reducing emissions to about 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. The government is already working on an additional package of measures in the context of the revision of the NEFP, a first draft of which should be submitted to the European Commission in June 2023 and the final version a year later. The contours of that package are currently being worked out and will also be determined by the Council of Ministers in the near future. We are also active on the adaptation front, with the creation, last July, of a federal adaptation task force responsible for developing a coherent set of adaptation measures in the many relevant areas of federal competence. Such work is ongoing and should result in a draft on which a public consultation will be held in the first quarter of 2022 in the coming months, after which the draft will be finalised by mid 2022 and submitted to the government for approval. For the rest, I can tell you that preparations for Belgian participation in COP26 are taking place as satisfactorily as possible in the context of a global health crisis. As you know, the European Union speaks with one voice in multilateral climate negotiations. The European negotiating mandate will be finalised at the Environment Council on 6 October. Belgium is actively involved in the preparatory work and, as you know, Wallonia is the seat for Belgium. As you said, Madam de Laveleye, the IPCC report describes with greater certainty and detail the unprecedented scale of changes in the climate system caused by human activity. The Secretary-General of the United Nations called it a "red code for humanity". It is therefore also logical that the publication of this report should motivate me and the entire Belgian negotiating delegation at COP26 to make it a multilateral milestone of climate ambition. All countries in the world need to scale up their short- and long-term ambition so that we can keep the 1.5 °C target within reach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u19	Minister, I think there is no doubt that, under your leadership, our government is working. You will soon be here for a year and, in terms of governance, the situation is radically different: from now on, each minister becomes a sort of climate minister and engages through clear roadmaps, and we understand that it takes time. Frankly, it would be low-level anti-politicism to think that it is not a complicated task for you and your government colleagues to reach ambitious decisions in order to achieve the targets of 55% greenhouse gas reductions by 2030. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary that we have spaces to shout our...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u20	I do not blame you, I apologize for not being able to give you a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u21	We are parliamentarians and represent people who are outside, who are so scared and angry. Things are not moving fast enough and political decisions are extremely slow. Once again, I understand that this new governance takes time, but every month that passes is a lost month. People are already dying from climate change, and it is imperative that this COP26 be a success. In this respect, the expectations of the Belgian public are enormous. On 10 October there will be a demonstration in the streets of Brussels which I hope will be massive. In any case, we will be there to remind you that the people expect you and your government, as well as the governments of the Regions, to live up to the crisis of the 21st century that we are facing. You obviously have our trust and support, but every hour counts, and we expect results very quickly, in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u22	Madam Minister, you said at the beginning that it was going to be very important months, because we are facing the most important challenge, that of climate change. As policy makers, we have a duty to continuously evaluate whether we are doing enough to keep global warming below 1.5°C. I welcome your view that Belgium should play a proactive role in the international and European forum. The Glasgow Climate Summit is the perfect place to put ambitious international and European climate objectives first. It is well known that the current efforts are insufficient, so we must increase our ambitions. For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, much attention must be paid in this debate to a socially just relance. I am therefore very pleased that on 2 April you instructed your fellow ministers to reflect on concrete steps in their area of competence. After all, there is still much to be done in many areas and as much as possible. Working together is the key word for tackling climate change. You already do that in the federal government. Hopefully you will not be alone in our country and all regions with the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels governments, like the federal government, will take their responsibility by choosing innovation and the health of their citizens. Climate must not be an excuse to play party political games, but must be a subject of real concern, which encourages action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u23	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers and the perspectives given to us, and as such, I will play a careful and vigilant role of benevolence. You mention the urgency of the measures to be taken, with a fight to be waged on two fronts: on the one hand, the reduction of greenhouse gases and, on the other, an adaptation plan. It is clear that the roadmaps by minister for the month of April, with a final version in the Council of Ministers in the near future, are valid. At the same time, however, you yourself say that the measures designed within the framework of this plan are not sufficient to meet the Belgian objectives that have been set. These additional government measures to be set by the Council of Ministers are obviously urgent. In fact, you first mention the public consultation that is to take place in the first quarter of 2022. But we are in a context of very specific steps. What about the measures? That is what worries and that is what the citizens want. As my colleagues have pointed out, they need to be concrete. This social justice must be translated into tangible elements. What are the effects of the objectives to be achieved with the level of intervention of citizens, businesses, communities? All this – I say it with fraternity but nevertheless with conviction – has a taste too little at the end of the COP26 that awaits us. Madam Minister, I therefore ask you to respond positively. We are looking forward not only to objectives but to concrete actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I shall return to the previous question. You know something about chasing each other inside Vivaldi. That's very clear. However, Madam Minister, speaking of social justice, I note that the Climate Action Network is concerned about COP26 in Glasgow. In particular, the Committee wonders whether COP26 is sufficiently inclusive. That was an interesting remark, given, of course, the still global covid pandemic. It is literally stated that a personal COP at the beginning of November 2021 would exclude de facto too many government representatives, civil society campaigners, journalists and others, especially from the countries of the South, many of whom are on the COVID-19 red list in the United Kingdom. It is therefore even proposed to postpone COP26 until spring 2022. COP26 is also important for international climate financing, loss and damage, as well as for the rules governing the international carbon market. The United Nations has already responded and say that they understand the concerns, but that they do not respond to the question of postponement. According to the United Nations, this will be done by offering vaccines to all participants and paying the cost of quarantine in hotels, should this be necessary. After all, it soon concerns a few thousand people. Madam Minister, how do you and the Belgian Government assess the view that there would be or would be a risk of a lack of equal participation for low-income countries at the forthcoming COP26?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u25	Mr President, Minister, COP26 will take place in Glasgow in November 2021. There is an urgent need to make global commitments to global global warming up to 1.5. C to be limited. Nevertheless, more than a thousand NGOs called for the COP26 to be postponed. That's because of global vaccination apartheid. They fear that as a result, there will be insufficient physical participation of representatives from the Global South in the conference in November 2021. There is therefore a risk that decisions will be taken which are very damaging to the people of the South. After all, they will take the first blows of climate change. Do you support the NGOs' demand that COP26 should only begin when it can be guaranteed that all representatives from the global South can be present? Will you call for the necessary steps to be taken as soon as possible? One of the hot issues for which the participation of the global South should certainly not be lacking is the elaboration of the rules for the operationalisation of Article 6 in order to establish a global carbon market. Do you support the operationalisation of Article 6? Why is that? Why is that? How do you think this operationalization should look? Finally, last week, more than 2,000 scientists around the world called for a non-proliferation treaty on fossil fuels to end the expansion of fossil fuel production, phase out existing production and achieve a global transformation plan to 100 % renewable energy. Will you support that call at COP26?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u26	Mr President, I have taken note of the question put by the Climate Action Network International to postpone COP26 and also of the answer given by the United Kingdom as Chairman of COP26. First of all, let me say that I fully agree that COP26, which should be a milestone in the multinational climate negotiations, should be as inclusive as possible, so that all countries in the world have a say in the negotiations and stakeholders and representatives can follow the negotiations. Belgium shall contribute annually to the UNFCCC Fund which supports the participation of representatives from the South in the climate negotiations. The Belgian negotiating team and I are always open to dialogue with stakeholders in the run-up to and during the COP. I therefore understand the concern that has given rise to this question. From the outset, the United Kingdom has indicated that inclusiveness is one of the guiding principles in the organisation of COP and has taken concrete initiatives to this end, such as making vaccines available and taking on certain logistical costs in the event of compulsory quarantine. I hope that they can also contribute effectively to an inclusive COP. After all, I also understand the importance of continuing the climate conference in 2021. The climate crisis also poses immense challenges for the world. The recent IPCC climate report shows that there is no time to lose. Both crises require an urgent and decisive approach. The discussions on Article 6 are very important within the wider package of negotiations following COP26. For Belgium, environmental integrity, contributing to sustainable development and respect for human rights are paramount. Finally, I have not yet been able to take note of the call for a non-proliferation treaty on fossil fuels. Apart from my possible personal sympathy for that initiative or other initiatives, the possible support of our country must always be discussed with the other entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u27	Madam Secretary, your answer is what I expected: you join the UN's communication. Of course, you understand the concerns about inclusiveness, but you think that sufficient measures will be taken to eliminate that danger. Let us wait until November to see what communication will be spread over the COP at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u28	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. You say that the United Kingdom considers inclusiveness to be a guiding principle, but of course the vaccines were made available very late, which means that a large part of the representatives from the global South will not be able to attend COP26. It is essential that countries most affected by the climate crisis are represented so that no decisions are taken with far-reaching negative consequences for them in their absence. With regard to Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement, you know our position: we believe that this should not be operationalised. Carbon markets are ineffective and antisocial. Putting the fate of the planet in the hands of the market is treason for the climate. We need an ambitious global plan to curb climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u29	Madam Secretary, you spoke in the press about the creation of an OCAD climate. Several colleagues have questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u30	Madam Secretary, I am following you very closely, which is also my job. I was somewhat surprised by the name OCAD Climate, because I found it disrespectful to the victims of terrorism. I know Ecolo's view that the climate crisis is the same as a global terrorist threat. We do not participate in this, we leave it with all due respect. I come to your concrete proposal, a coordination body for risk analysis and the assessment of the climate crisis, along the lines of the OCAD, a multidisciplinary and federal knowledge and expertise centre under your supervision. The body should be completely independent and therefore ensure neutral and objective risk assessments and recommendations. It would report to the National Security Council, where the Minister for Climate and the Environment should be invited from now on. So you should be structurally present in the National Security Council, as it should also deal with the climate. This should lead to recommendations on mitigation, adaptation and loss and damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u31	I must say that the RMI is also thinking in this direction, namely of a kind of risk centre for natural disasters. It's worth considering. Indeed, it has been found that certain European institutions sent out warnings while the relevant Walloon services were there and looking at them. You don't say that in your communication. I do not think so, as was said in the Walloon Commission of Inquiry into the Floods. However, that aside. Madam Minister, can you explain how you see the cooperation of the OCAD Climate Change with the Federal Crisis Centre and the relevant European bodies? How do you see the cooperation with the RMI? How should this be financed and what composition will this newly established coordination body have? Have you already consulted within the government on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u32	Madam Minister, I have indeed seen your idea of a kind of climate-OCAD in order to respond better to the threat of climate disasters. Mr Ravyts, whether you are the victim of an attack or a climate disaster, the balance is equally sad. Every lost life is too much. The idea is certainly interesting. Not because of the structure, which is less important to me. It is important, however, that we take increasingly serious account of the climate warming and the threat associated with it. In the Committee on Defence, we received a report with an analysis of our defence and how we should deal with it in the future. The defence experts themselves indicated that cyberterrorism and global warming are the threats that await us and are causing global disruption. This climate-OCAD is therefore an interesting idea in itself, because global warming can cause many problems. So I would have liked to ask you exactly how you see that and which slopes you are working on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u33	The COP26 is of course an important chapter. It has already been mentioned that we will table a resolution which I believe will be widely supported. Although we have a complex government structure with many parliaments, there is consensus. We will try to get that resolution considered as soon as possible and to bring it up here. I now come to the OCAD for the climate. Madam Minister, I approve of the creation of new structures, but sometimes I have in mind the saying "Who too kisses badly". Should we not try to get work done in the structures that are currently in place? Without taking a definitive position on this, I invite you to answer the questions that have been formally submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u34	Mr President, this is not clear to me. Are you going to turn every question into a topical debate? I feel obliged to take the floor on every question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u35	I shall first give the floor to Mr Senesael et puis, your vous répondrai. I talked before my turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u36	Minister, as we said and recalled, on September 8, we learned of your willingness to set up a Climate OCAM, a coordinating body for the analysis and assessment of the risks associated with the climate crisis. It would take the form of a federal multi-disciplinary knowledge and expertise centre and ensure the provision of risk assessment and recommendations to the National Security Council. Minister, can we be informed of the status of this project? On the other hand, can we obtain further information on the nature of this project and on the practical functioning of this body? On what kind of phenomena would the analysis and activities of this body be oriented? Is it planned to link this body with two tools put in place in recent months, the scenarios for a climate neutral Belgium by 2050 and the monitoring tool for federal climate policies? In advance, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u37	Mr Wollants, if you would like to ask a question on this subject, you may intervene now. From three questions, the President may extend for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u38	Mr President, let me be clear: it is normally scheduled as a topical debate on the agenda. Then the other colleagues will also know that they can take the floor. As far as climate-OCAD is concerned, we need to look at how this is organised. The security problems the OCAD is dealing with today are very often punctual issues and immediate threats. The threats to climate are, of course, of a very different nature. In what way and for what topics do you wish to intervene? Does the OCAD Climate want to look at too low ambitions in China, for example, or is it about expanding or not expanding a zone for a carless Sunday? What exactly is it about? Could you give me a little more explanation about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u39	To clarify, you always have the right, if you have the agenda, to ask an additional question yourself. I would like to enter into a dialogue with all the groups on how to make the operation even more fluid, and perhaps more focused.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u40	The images of floods in various provinces of our country have shown us what great economic, social and human costs can have extreme weather conditions. Climate change is already having serious consequences elsewhere in Europe and the world. Of course, we must continue to focus on mitigation and the rapid and drastic reduction of our emissions. In addition, adaptation measures are essential. After all, climate change is already a fact. A third domain is that of loss and damages, loss and damage. If we are unable to show the necessary ambition in these areas, mitigation and adaptation, we will face damage and loss in various areas: economic, social, environmental and human. The scenarios referred to show that it is possible to achieve climate neutrality in Belgium by 2050. Like the roadmaps currently being prepared by my colleagues, they include analyses and measures on mitigation and the necessary reduction of our emissions. The climate emergency requires a considerable acceleration and strengthening of our climate policy in all its aspects. In order to give effect to these policies in a coherent and effective manner, it is important to have adequate decision-making structures and bodies. Strengthening our climate policy requires a cross-cutting and holistic approach that integrates the climate dimension as a structural element and takes into account the many interactions between sectoral policies and their interactions with other environmental or socio-economic issues. Therefore, we need to equip ourselves with a specific capacity for mitigation and adaptation risk analysis and assessment, as well as loss and damage that will allow us to make recommendations to strengthen our resilience. (I would like to recall that one of the objectives of the Green Deal and the climate law is not only neutrality by 2050, but also the resilience of our states to the same horizon.) In this sense, this has nothing to do with the current OCAM, which deals with information and intelligence relevant to terrorism, extremism and problematic radicalization. The parallel concerned methodology. The Climate OCAM requires specific expertise whose basic philosophy, as well as the current OCAM (the reason for which I use this term), is:connecting the dots, because that is the objective. The context of a major emergency also requires strategic decisions to be taken at the appropriate level. My proposal to set up a coordination body for the analysis and assessment of climate risks that would report to the National Security Council is intended to meet these needs. It is the Council that directs the National Crisis Centre. Coordination with the European level speaks for itself, interaction with neighbouring countries as well. The core tasks of this body will be to analyse climate risk using a multidisciplinary approach and to provide advice and recommendations on current and future policies. This body must have the means to carry out its tasks and must be able to act independently and objectively. The details of the mandate, composition, structure and financing of this body are still being examined and will be finalised in dialogue. As indicated above, it is not intended to replace scientific research or current government and policy bodies. The results of scientific research will benefit the OCAD Climate in order to carry out a thorough, detailed and continuous risk analysis and evaluation in the areas of mitigation and adaptation and loss and damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u41	Madam Secretary, I have not been able to hear your answer, so I will read it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for explaining the methodology you wish to apply. I understand that your ruling on the OCAD is rather an image that you have suggested to make it a little clearer. That is why I think it is a pity that Mr Wollants is making a mockery of this. How punctual can it be? I've got a two-day tweet for the water pollution. That tweet indicated that in Zuidoost-Limburg, in the Voerstreek, water would fall 1 to 1.5 meters. One should not be a psychic to know that problems may arise at that time. We've had rainwater, but also drought with heat plans. More and more we see the consequences of global warming in our society. These things can be very punctual. We're gonna have to live with it. It is therefore all the better for us to prepare ourselves for this disaster in every possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u43	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her initial response. Indeed, a few precepts allow us to trace the contours of the need for the possible interventions of the Climate OCAM, with its analysis of damage and damage, with the objective to be achieved for this climate-neutral Belgium, by 2050. But for the time being, we are still in the early stages of financing and organizing this tool. In the coming weeks, we should be able to obtain further clarification to examine the context in which Members of Parliament will be able to coordinate government/Parliament efforts and achieve meaningful results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u44	Madam Minister, following the European plans for the introduction of a carbon border adjustment mechanism or CBAM, the Dutch government had a study carried out by the company Trinomics, which it subsequently proposed to the Dutch Parliament. The study shows that a CBAM combined with phasing out the free allowances for a number of sectors could lead to additional risks on carbon leakage, which would partially undermine the impact of the CBAM. Of course, it is not clear that that conclusion also applies to the Belgian situation. In any case, the refining and basic materials sectors, for which the Dutch study made that assessment, are also present in our country. Study work is therefore needed to determine our position in relation to such a mechanism, as well as any accompanying measures. Firstly, to what extent is the federal government competent to order a study to map the effects? Secondly, does the government intend to do so, possibly in cooperation with the Länder? Have any discussions been held on this matter with regional ministers or have there been discussions on this at the National Climate Commission? Thirdly, how will you determine our position in relation to the creation of a CBAM?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u45	Thank you, Mr Wollants, for reminding me and my administration of this study which we are studying with great attention. We will circulate it in the extensive intra-Belgian network which analyses and discusses the European Commission's proposal in the light of the further Belgian position. The administrative pilotage of the file is located with the FPS Finance in an internal ad hoc working group which brings together the many administrations involved, federally and regionally, given the transversal and technical nature of the measures proposed by the European Commission. The political arbitration of the proposals for Belgian positions will then take place at the meeting of the DGE in which the numerous representatives of the Cabinets and departments responsible for the federal and federated level participate. At the European level, this dossier will be drawn by the ECOFIN Commissioner at the European Council. Regarding the concrete content of this Dutch analysis, in line with your lecture, I recall that the phased introduction of an EU carbon border adjustment mechanism in the early years for the Dutch sectors 'artificial manure' and 'iron and steel' results on average in a net cost reduction compared to a situation without CBAM. Indeed, the mechanism allows these ETS companies to partially pass on their ETS costs, including those previously not covered by free allocation of allowances, to their customers in the EU, while this was not possible for the introduction of the CBAM due to international competition. However, we need to be vigilant with regard to the export of these products by CBAM sectors to non-EU countries when the introduction of the CBAM requires companies to pay full carbon costs and cannot pass them on, as they have to compete with producers who do not have to pay equivalent carbon costs in some markets outside Europe. At present, this aspect is not foreseen in the European Commission's proposal as it provides only one level playing field on the European market. I can tell you that at the federal level at my initiative last week a position was established on the main lines around Fit for 55. We believe that the export dimension needs to be further analysed and we want to contribute to proposals to adequately protect our exporting sectors if the proposals can pass the critical test both from an environmental and a WTO point of view. We also attach great importance to climate diplomacy in order to properly frame the CBAM and to avoid that this measure would be seen as an instrument for generating costs, whereas it merely aims to achieve an environmental objective. It is remarkable that several countries exporting to the European Union in future CBAM sectors already have an agreed carbon dioxide equivalent with the European Union - such as the United Kingdom and Norway - or are accelerating policy initiatives to achieve a full carbon price, such as China and Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u46	Thank you for your answer. The whole system needs to be looked at intelligently. It was conceived in the past as a system that would prevent our companies from being competitive by importing a number of raw materials that do not meet the same conditions. The opposite can indeed be true: if we want to produce sustainable steel here and do not lose it on the international market, then we also have a problem. I can only appeal to the Commission to be very attentive to this issue in terms of exports so as to avoid that type of steel, for example, from now on being produced in other places, under different conditions than we would like.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u47	Mr President, Minister, once again I tabled a question on COP26, which will take place in Glasgow in November. You mentioned this a moment ago, and that is what it is, as all the countries of the world have to re-present their climate ambitions under the Paris Agreement. The EU has submitted a climate ambition of 55% of emissions reduction by 2030. In the context of this largely inadequate ambition, Belgium must achieve 47 percent reduction in emissions. Our fragmented division of powers means that an agreement must first be reached within Belgium between the federal level and the different regions in order to divide efforts for that objective. You promised at the time that you would reach an agreement on this in the National Climate Commission before COP26. Madam Secretary, will you be able to do that? Can we expect a transparent report on these discussions afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u48	Mr President, Minister, on 13 July you indicated that the Walloon climate minister, Mr Henry, would table negotiating proposals in September on the Burden Sharing exercise. As Mrs Daems pointed out, it was the ambition to reach an agreement before Glasgow's COP, but at a previous meeting you yourself said that this timing is certainly not easy. You have already discussed with Mr Raskin that the government itself would take action within its own powers to make an additional contribution. It is of course important, given the sharp timing you have indicated, to know whether progress has been made. Madam Minister, have you now received the negotiating proposals from the Chairman of the National Climate Committee? When do you plan to negotiate these proposals with the Regions? Has a negotiating calendar been drawn up for this purpose? What timing is provided for? I would also like to know how far you have gone with your proposals. You have replied to Mr Raskin that you will have a state of affairs within two weeks. I hope for more, but I suppose the answer will not have changed that much at an hour's notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u49	Madam Minister, I would like to talk about the National Climate Commission, the Walloon Presidency and the new intrabelgic cooperation agreement on Burden Sharing, which is necessary. You said in May that since the beginning of the year Mr Henry has held several bilateral meetings with each of the parties concerned with a view to a new intrabelgic cooperation agreement. You wanted to reach an agreement before COP26 in Glasgow. A first joint plenary session of the National Climate Commission and the administrations was scheduled for 21 May 2021. At this meeting, the Presidency of the National Climate Commission would determine the next steps in the process towards a new agreement. What is the state of play with regard to the establishment of an intra-belgic cooperation agreement on the distribution of the Belgian climate and energy objectives? And will this new agreement to be reached relate to the same matters as the current version, which has actually expired? If not, what other issues should be agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u50	The negotiations between the Federal State and the Regions with a view to concluding a cooperation agreement on the climate and energy objectives for the period 2021-2030 have not yet reached an effective stage. At this stage only bilateral consultations took place under the chairmanship of the National Climate Commission (NKC), chaired by the Walloon Region. At the last meeting of the NKC on 28 June, the NKC President briefly reported on these consultations, confirming the willingness of the four parties to reach a first political agreement before COP26, but also pointing out that an agreement by that date could only be partial, given the many uncertainties about the outcome of the discussions at European level on the legislative proposals in the Fitfor 55 package. The President of the NKC also announced his intention to start these negotiations in September. I have advocated speeding up work and I look forward to an initiative along these lines. Pending such an initiative at NKC level, we are preparing at federal level to enter into negotiations. The first discussions took place in an Inter-Kabinette working group to outline the broad lines of the federal proposals in the context of these negotiations. These proposals will be based on a commitment by the federal government to achieve a certain volume of additional emission reductions through new policies and measures to strengthen its action in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency and to significantly increase its contributions to international climate finance. Another important aspect of the federal position in these negotiations is the balance to be struck between the efforts made and the share of revenues from the auctioning of ETS allowances that the federal government will benefit from. I also attach great importance to strengthening governance and will ensure that this dimension is also given particular attention in the negotiations for a new cooperation agreement. Finally, I would like to add that I intend to submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers in the short term for a commitment by the Federal Government to develop and implement a package of additional measures that allow for additional emission reductions, with a view to achieving the reinforced objectives resulting from the increased climate ambition at European level. This package of additional policies and measures remains to be specified, but will include reinforced actions in the areas of taxation, renewable energy, transport, buildings and product standards. The new package of measures will be at the heart of the federal offer in the context of negotiations with the Regions on the allocation of the 2030 climate and energy targets and the revision of the federal contribution to the NEKP 2021-2030, a first draft update of which should be communicated to the European Commission in June 2023 and the final version one year later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u51	Madam Minister, we think it is crucial that COP26 is agreed and that commitments are made to limit global global warming to 1.5 °C. Belgium and the EU, in view of the latest state of science, must make a serious effort to achieve at least 65% reduction in emissions by 2030. It is unbelievable that we in Belgium are still working on climate change. The climate cannot wait another eight years for Belgium to get out of the Burden Sharing. As far as we are concerned, the federal level must be able to control climate policy, as happens in almost any other federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u52	Madam Secretary, we didn't get much further than when I asked my question in July. Maybe I should file them again in two weeks to see where we stand. We have been asking from our group all along to finally develop a little ambition for, for example, the Government of the Buildings. The last time I was disappointed by Mr Michel's answer: he did not want to invest too much in solar panels, he said, because then he might have to become an energy supplier. If that's the way we handle this, I'm afraid we won't get there. And for Mrs Daems: I believe that the main challenge of the COP will be that the other continents match the efforts of the European Union. If they do the same thing as we do here, I think we would be a lot further than we are now. Frankly, when I started in this Parliament, the European Union accounted for 14% of global emissions, while we are now at around 8.5%. This is because abroad has started to emit much more than we did here in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u53	After this shock of eco-realism, which I naturally support, we have to note that we are not yet very far away from the beginning of the summer. The chairman of the National Climate Committee has just reported on the good intentions that everyone has, that's all. In September, he would start the negotiations in concrete terms. In the meantime, you can indeed make federal proposals on new policies for CO2 emissions, but in the end the situation will remain as it is and it will take a while before there is a final new intrabelgic cooperation agreement on Burden Sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u54	Madam Secretary, do you remember the following passage from your policy statement? I quote: "The National Climate Commission (NKC) must play its full role as a central platform for this cooperation and I intend to give a strong impetus to improving the transparency of the NKC, its efficiency and democratic control of its actions, in particular through a stronger relationship with parliaments, among others." However, Madam Minister, the minutes of the meetings of the National Climate Commission are still not being made public. It remains the case for the publication of mainly mandatory official reports. There is still no question of the maximum transparency promised. However, it is very important for the follow-up of NEKP, Burden Sharing, Governance and Adaptation, among others. During the meeting of 28 June 2021, it was apparently decided to discuss the publication on the NKC's website of documents at the NKC's meetings, at the next NKC's meeting, with a view to clarifying the procedures to be applied for each type of document. What steps have you taken to improve the transparency and functioning of the National Climate Commission? Can you produce a more detailed report than the very brief decision-making reports of the meetings of the National Climate Commission last year? Maybe you're suggesting that that's too much, but I can't take notice of it. You may be able to give me those reports in writing, because for the time being we have only been able to hear very brief decision-making reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u55	Mr Ravyts, I have already answered the question raised at the meeting of 11 May this year, and I remain in line with it. Increasing transparency and improving the democratic control of the National Climate Commission (NKC) are the building blocks of enhanced climate governance. The documents shall be published on the NKC platform and, in the case of European reporting obligations, on the European Environment Agency platform after approval. Standard practice is that the approved documents are made public, but not all parties have the same drive for transparency. Therefore, at the latest NKC meeting, it was asked to clarify the procedures for informal working papers and approved documents at the next meeting. In 2018, the NKC agreed to the application for access to a series of approved NKC documents with respect to the terms and conditions of confidentiality and privacy. In this way, you and the members of the Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue could also have access to all documents. The president of the NKC could also report annually on the work of the NKC. At federal level, the governance framework has already been strengthened with a view to improving transparency and democratic control. For example, for the follow-up and evaluation of federal policies and measures, it was decided that the federal government would prepare six-monthly progress reports, the results of which would be compiled in annual synthesis reports, which will be made public. In order to increase democratic control, these reports will be the subject of a debate during annual climate days in Parliament. During the first half of 2021, a series of discussions were held under the chairmanship of the Walloon Region and a number of reports were adopted, including the progress report on greenhouse gas reduction in the non-ETS sectors for the period 2013-2020. It shows, among other things, that our country has a surplus of allowances in the period 2013-2017. An evaluation was also made of the National Evaluation Plan, which is generally positive, with the exception of some improvement points. For example, no effort was made to set up a Belgian Knowledge Centre, which could, however, optimise the coordination and ensure that the expertise in our country would be better exploited. A detailed report was published on the distribution of revenues from auctioning allowances for the period from 2 December 2016 to 8 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u56	Mr President, Minister, it is only a small step forward. When such a provision is contained in your policy statement, I have much greater expectations. I understand that it is difficult for administrations, officials and representatives of governments to have their speeches thrown into the streets in debates. Under certain conditions, however, it should be possible for Members of Parliament to have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u57	Mr President, welcome to this committee. I hope for constructive and efficient cooperation. Madam Minister, as you know, the European Member States, including our country, had to transpose the SUP Directive into national law by 3 July at the latest, the single use plastic directive. However, given the complexity of the issue, the European Commission did not publish the guidelines until 7 June. Member States may use these guidelines as a reference for transposition. I understand you're working on a royal decision to transpose that directive. As a result, I have a number of questions, particularly because there is a great deal of concern from various sectors about this transposition. I believe that we all agree that plastic is a growing problem and that we should reduce its use. The SUP Directive therefore provides that certain single-use plastic products, such as plastic cutlery or plates, should no longer be placed on the market. Of course, it is important that we also take food safety into account. Care must be taken to ensure that there are sufficient sustainable alternatives. These alternatives must, of course, also be an environmental benefit. Madam Minister, I would like to know how you take food safety into account, so that it can be guaranteed, and ensure that hygiene is guaranteed in the packaging of our food. To what extent will you take that into account? Has there been contact with the BFSA and the Minister responsible, Mr Clarinval? We have heard several stakeholders express concerns about transposition. I would like to know which sector federations and which stakeholders you have consulted? Are you planning any further consultations on this matter? Can you list with whom you have all sat around the table about this, and above all what their greatest concerns were? Finally, the government agreement says that the ban on certain plastics will be investigated. An impact analysis would first be carried out. Can you tell us what the result of this impact analysis is? If it's not there yet, why haven't you had it executed? The government agreement also states that a level playing field with the other Member States should be ensured, i.e. not gold-plating. Can you confirm that your draft royal decree does not include gold-plating? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u58	Mr President, we are moving on to Mr Ben Accour's little stick horse. On a proposal from the Minister, the Council of Ministers of 17 September approved the KB on single use products and on the promotion of reusable products. It is important to place on the market: this is a federal ban on disposable products. These are single-use plastic products, according to European Directives 2015/720 and 2011/904. Specifically, the ban on the placing on the market of light plastic carrier bags with handles (the cash bags), with some specific exceptions. The sector will be given a period of one year to adapt. The same time limit shall be granted for the prohibition of placing disposable plastic cups on the market for the first time. There will also be, but with immediate effect, a ban on the placing on the market of a number of specific single-use products. Through this Royal Decree, the "single-use plastics" sub-directive is transposed into Belgian law. However, I wonder how this relates to Mr Ben Acour's draft law adopted in committee on 8 July 2020, which also prohibited single-use plastic bags and went beyond the European directives in question and therefore fell under the notification procedure to the European Commission. How was the discussion of your KB at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment? What was the reaction of the Flemish Region in view of the ongoing evaluation by OVAM of a number of Flemish measures in this area, such as the current ban on the free distribution of light plastic carrier bags at the shop counter? What is the timetable for the impact analysis announced by the Minister in consultation with the sectors and target groups on, inter alia, the ban on plastic food packaging for foods intended for immediate consumption? With this I join with the concerns of Mr Leen Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u59	By 3 July 2021, all Member States of the European Union had to transpose the Directive of 5 June 2019 on the reduction of the effects of certain plastic products on the environment, the so-called sub-Directive, into national law. Belgium didn't meet the deadline, but now it seems to be moving in the file. Last Friday, on your proposal, the Council of Ministers approved a royal decision on single use products and on the promotion of reusable products. I understand from your communication that it's already been approved. When will that KB be published? The KB had to go through a series of steps, including the advice of the Federal Advisory Councils, the Finance Inspector and the Council of State. What was the opinion of these bodies? In what way were their comments taken into account in your Royal Decree? Over the past year, like all other colleagues, I have heard a great deal of concern and uncertainty within the sector. I've asked you about it several times. The sector should be able to prepare for the implementation of the new rules, but for a long time it was unclear which packaging would be covered by the new rules. What initiatives will you take to inform the sector properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u60	Minister, on September 9, Microplastics and Nanoplastics published a study that again illustrates the impact of plastic pollution on our oceans. The authors point out that the amount of microplastic particles present at sea would be as much as five times the amount estimated so far: there would be 24.4 trillion particles in our seas, whereas they were previously estimated at 5.5 million – an already colossal figure. The weight estimate is necessarily difficult to determine, but the document sets a range of 82,000 to 578,000 tonnes. Depending on the region of the world, the concentration ranges from 130 grams to 2.6 kilograms per square kilometre. At the same time, the French Institute of Research for the Exploitation of the Sea indicates that 95% of this waste ends up on the seabed. The situation is so dramatic that some scientists are now talking about a plastic cycle, just as we are talking about the water cycle. As has just been pointed out, I have put forward a proposal for a law to transpose the European SUP Directive, which was intended to be more ambitious, as it extended the ban to single-use plastic bags. Last Friday, we learned of the approval of the Royal Decree on single-use products and the promotion of reusable products by the Council of Ministers, which we can only welcome. Nevertheless, although the text is still difficult to assess and therefore requires our caution, we may regret that some elements of the bill are not reflected in the Royal Order approved last week. Minister, could you elaborate on the arguments that led to the choice not to include certain aspects of the bill that I have just mentioned – and, in particular, those relating to single-use plastic bags? Are other measures relating to the production, use or placing on the market of single-use plastics envisaged in the short term, as we wish? Have you seen this study and the findings of the French Institute of Research for the Exploitation of the Sea? If so, can we benefit from your return to this matter? Finally, can we be informed of the monitoring of the implementation of this royal decree within 12 months of its publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u61	Indeed, last Friday the Council of Ministers approved the draft royal decree. The text is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. By the end of 2021, the Royal Decree shall be signed and published. I would like to point out that KB's design is not purely about packaging. My administration is in contact with the competent Belgian authority for food contact materials, namely DG Dier, Plant en Voeding van de FPS Volksgezondheid. Specific restrictions on food safety, so that food is not contaminated by packaging, are the subject of separate measures which fall within the competence of Ministers Clarinval and Vandenbroucke. My administration is in contact with the sectors concerned, including the management of the raw materials and products budget fund, for which they pay a contribution through their applications for admission. They have a say in the use of the Fund for the purpose of carrying out pre-studies, for example on chemicals. The draft was submitted to several internal and external advisory bodies, such as the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the Central Council for Business, the Consumer Council, the High Health Council and the TRIS Committee. Thanks to the European Commission's comments, we have been able to develop a better definition of plastic bags. In general, the sectors which were previously afraid of too strict transposition of the Directive were positive. Except for food packaging of expanded polystyrene, which should no longer be placed on the market, I will, in consultation with the sector, impose further restrictions on single-use food packaging. Pending these consultations, they are still allowed on the market. The National High Council for Persons with a Handicap was also consulted. His advice resulted in an exception for the sale of plastic straws in pharmacies. Plastic cups and carrier bags will be withdrawn from the market one year after the announcement of the Royal Decree, i.e. before the end of 2022, so that the sectors can adapt. The directive provides for a ban, but does not oblige Member States to introduce a ban. This is not the case for the list, which is directly applicable and which mentions, among other things, disposable crockery and cotton swabs. The sectors have already been subject to a series of restrictions in the regions, in accordance with the Directive, which aims to drastically reduce their use by 2026. We have remained very specific in the current design of KB, especially with regard to plastic carrier bags. Please note that carrier bags are still permitted for food safety and/or at airports. The ban on very light plastic bags has not been taken over, because my administration considered that there are currently no alternatives available on the market. For the same reason, we have allowed an exception for plastic coated cardboard cups, but the regions are likely to limit their use more and more until they are gone for good. By allowing the use of this very imperfect alternative in the short term, the sectors can find other ways. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment, including the Flemish Region, welcomed the draft KB, which was presented to it in March 2021. The proposed text went beyond the current RB and, in particular, from the end of 2022, prohibited plastic food packaging for foods intended for immediate consumption. The Flemish Region then asked for that deadline to be postponed until 2023. The measures taken by the regions relate to the use of the products. This, of course, is less binding than a ban and is more difficult to control in practice. Since the definitions in the Royal Decree are very restrictive, the regional measures remain useful and applicable to everything beyond what is strictly defined in the Royal Decree. Sharing entities shall, where appropriate, amend their texts. A ban on placing on the market can make matters easier for the regions, i.e. with regard to control. Because Mr Ben Achor's proposal was finally blocked in Parliament, Belgium threatened to exceed well the deadlines imposed by the European Commission. So I took over the file in a KB. Parliament's work has served as a basis for the relevant section of the Royal Decree. The RB does not go beyond what is possible under the Directive. We only prohibit products for which the Directive either requires a ban or allows them to be reduced by different methods, including a ban. The European Union always has an impact analysis carried out before proposing a new regulation. This shows that there are many positive effects, including on health, employment, consumption and production patterns, energy and food. I refer, for example, to a 2018 Commission staff working document "Impact Assessment: Reducing Marine Litter: action on single use plastics and fishing gear." In addition, the European Environment Agency has published several documents on this subject, including Déchets et utilization efficace des resources of January 2021. Specific to Belgium, the Regions have already carried out impact analyses. I will have further analyses carried out as soon as possible, with the advice of the Regions, but this will be progressive. It takes time to draw up a budget and bring together stakeholders. A first set of specific products could be banned while other products, which are not likely to be subject to alternatives, could be analysed later. Furthermore, my administration has just started a study on the challenges of using single-use medical devices. On the basis of the results, we will be able to think together with the sector about a more rational use of them. In the study to which you refer, Mr. Ben Achour, it is estimated that 95% of floating waste, mainly food containers that have been lost or abandoned or fishing nets, ends up at the bottom of the sea, often in the form of microplastic fragments of the size of a rice grain. The life cycle is such that these microplastics and nanoplastics are again found in the human body. These studies only reinforce my conviction that the result obtained with this draft royal decree is only a step in the right direction. The same balance of forces that did not allow the proposal to reach Parliament also justify the lower ambition than that of your bill. The awareness of the sectors and the general public must encourage us to find new solutions quickly. Finally, the inspection department of the Directorate-General for the Environment will, of course, monitor the Royal Decree. However, it is customary not to disclose the terms of the pre-inspection and not to inform each separate company of the imminence of an inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am pleased to hear that adjustments have been made on the basis of the opinions of the regions. I am also looking forward to the outcome of the opinion of the Council of State. It is important that there are sufficient alternatives. It reassures me that a number of issues have not yet been included in the Royal Decree, precisely because there are not enough alternatives yet. Several opinions have been received, but I have to tell you that we are still receiving very worried emails from different sectors and stakeholders, such as Fevia and Comeos. They feel like they're not getting involved. It will be a while before the KB is actually published. I therefore advise you to consult with them. There must be sufficient support, including among the various stakeholders. They should be given sufficient time and information to find alternatives and to integrate them into their production and systems. So sit around the table together, inform them well and give them time. As far as the impact analysis is concerned, I'm somewhat hungry. It seems logical to me to always make an impact analysis and then implement measures. From your explanation, I understood that the Regions have already made impact analyses, but federally it remains waiting. I therefore hope that this impact analysis will come soon. Appropriate measures can only be taken on the basis of a robust analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u63	I had a meeting with Comeos just before our meeting. They welcomed the royal decree that I submitted to them. If they have not yet had the opportunity to send e-mails expressing their satisfaction, I can reassure you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u64	I think that business too wants to cooperate, but we need a clear framework. You have the floor, Mr Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u65	Thank you for your very comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. I'm gonna have to go over it in detail. One of your predecessors, Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne, who has now become Minister, expressed the concern that a number of proposals, or consequences of proposals, by Mr Ben Achor were not sufficiently alternatives on the market. Apparently, Vivaldi has also understood this, perhaps under pressure from one of the government partners, which means that you are limited in this RB, to the extent that the SUP Directive, which you were required to transpose, is required. I share the concerns of the sector and the stakeholders. You say it's going pretty smoothly and you gave the example of Comeos. I wonder what the Council of State is saying about the C.B. I think that this dossier could be dealt with in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u66	This is not a nice file, Madam Secretary. Colleague Ravyts just said it. He sketched a small piece of history. This dossier is blocked in Parliament. That's why it had to be a KB. If there were to be a vote on this, including in plenary, then yet again the schism within Vivaldi would be exposed. I heard Mrs Dierick, a member of the majority too, say that it is best to analyse the issues first and then issue a KB. You're just doing the opposite. I won't repeat my reply from the previous times. It is a missed opportunity, Madam Secretary, that you did not involve the sector. You say you've been in contact with Comeos, but I've been in contact with Comeos and other people in the packaging sector for a long time. You won't tell me they hadn't found their way to your cabinet before, will you? The fact that they were unable to prepare and barely know what was decided recently leads to a great deal of unrest. That's perfectly normal. We ourselves are hardly properly aware of what will happen. We do not yet know the opinion of the Council of State. Maybe your KB should be rewritten again. Those are all uncertainties. Nor is it entirely clear to me to what extent you are interfering with regional policy or not. The regions I refer to Flanders are doing a lot of things. I am thinking of the blue bag and the Green Deal Anders Packed, to avoid plastics, in cooperation with the industry and the companies, which invest 2 million in it. As of 1 January 2022 on the reusable catering materials in public authorities, the intertwining was also announced well in time. Look at Flanders, Mrs. Khattabi. I'm sure you'll learn a lot from it. It may also happen that this kind of nasty files come back to this table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is, of course, always frustrating for a parliamentarian to see a text missing the last step, especially since the solution proposed here is – for reasons that you have put forward – below what was approved in committee. However, these are personal feelings that do not count in terms of the seriousness of the problem posed by plastics, microplastics and nanoplastics. I hear you refer to areas that would not have been consulted. As the author of the bill, I can assure you that I have maintained very regular contacts with COMEOS. This federation not only welcomed the text that we were about to approve in plenary session, but – better still – it regretted and, above all, regretted that it had not been voted on. As a result, the large distribution sector fully supported the bill and the ambitions it defended. You talked about a step. That's why I plead for her to appeal to others. On the other hand, I reject the idea that it is necessary to wait, before going any further, for ideal solutions to be available on the market. Between the seriousness of the problem, on the one hand, and the possible existence of absolutely ideal solutions, on the other, it is the first aspect that must take precedence and therefore motivate our political positions. The balance must be balanced between the two situations. Minister, I encourage you to continue the fight. We will deliver it to our level and, in any case, to mine. The problem of plastic is extremely serious, as I mentioned in my question. Let's keep fighting!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u68	Without wanting to expand too much and to abuse my privileges, I would like to point out that this is an important dossier, about all existing plastic. I will discuss it on another occasion during the course of the proceedings. Both companies and citizens are responsible for part of that soup. However, they both face the challenge of cooperating in finding a solution, including for the soup that exists in the oceans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u69	Madam Minister, I would like to comment on the impact of the allowances on the electricity price, together with your proposal to use the Belgian revenues from auctioning the allowances. You said that a few weeks ago you proposed a new position on Fit for 55 in the Council of Ministers. In June you already had a Belgian position with regard to the different parts of Fit for 55. After all, you proposed it here and put out a press release on it. You were rather suspicious at the time about the extension of the ETS system to other sectors. You admitted that there could be potentially unwanted social consequences. However, even without enlargement to other sectors, there are already social consequences of the more expensive producer of emissions rights. You will undoubtedly say that there are many other factors that play a role in this, but the higher CO2 price is certainly a factor, because the price of electricity is fundamentally determined by gas plants. The EU has plans to introduce a stronger annual emission reduction. They want to review and strengthen the market stability reserve. What will the EU say to that? A social climate fund that's gonna solve everything. How do you view these ETS reforms, especially as regards the impact on energy prices? Will the National Conference for a Righteous Transition start next month? Would you mind taking that up for a second? Then I come to my question about the Belgian proceeds from the auction. This means that EUR 350 million is available to reduce the energy bill, but that money is in a blocked account, because the federal government and the Länder have not yet agreed on the distribution of these funds. Can you explain your proposal on this subject, to which Mrs Demir has reacted very calmly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u70	Mr Ravyts, you know what this ETS system is for. The CO2 price is there to counter global warming. We agree that CO2 emissions should be reduced, and this is one of the means to do so. You say that it ends up with people, but when a house rips or runs underwater, the costs are many times greater. It is also the case that we are looking for solutions to rising energy prices. Madam Minister and others have put forward proposals on this subject. The Minister proposed to use resources from ETS rights. That is an idea that we are waiting for, but it also draws attention to the non-distribution of these resources. The situation is rock-solid. So I wonder what you, as a federal climate minister, will do to ensure that an agreement is reached on the distribution of these resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u71	Madam Minister, on 14 July, the long-awaited European package of proposals for climate legislation implementing the Green Deal and the EU climate law appeared. Since December, we have been asking questions about your position on the possible extension of the ETS and about the price increases that it would bring, without getting an answer. I am therefore very interested in your view of the package, as it is now before us. Energy prices have gone through the roof over the last few months. One of the causes is the ETS system. The cost of a tonne of CO2 has never been so high and is directly passed on to the consumer. I warned you months ago that this is one of the perverse effects of the ETS system: it drives up the price of electricity. In the last few weeks, you've put a big shovel on top of that. On 15 September, you sent out a press release announcing that the climate policy will provide an amount of half a billion euros to reduce the energy bill. In it, you propose to use the revenues from the ETS system, which are not yet divided between the federal state and the regions due to the lack of a new cooperation agreement 2021-2030, once to reduce the price of electricity. Madam Secretary, that's the world upside down! You are proposing the ETS as a solution, while it is one of the causes of the price increases. The Fit for 55 package aims to further extend the ETS system to transport and buildings. The anti-social market mechanisms leading to perverse effects are thus further extended. What are your views on the increased market forces in EU climate plans, given the limited impact on the environment of past market forces and the incredibly large price increases that are already causing market forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u72	Mr President, I do not understand anymore. Mr Ravyts had a question, which you wanted to deal with together with this question from Mrs Daems...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u73	I may have misjudged them by combining them. So just answer the question that was originally planned. Then we will see what we are doing with the answer to this question, the scope of which is somewhat wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u74	Madam Minister, if I may, my first question was about increasing the CO2 price. Emissions rights are partly responsible for an increase in electricity prices. Since, like other ministers, you put forward a proposal on this subject, I tried to be gallant when I tried to be, Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, to link my question with that of Mr Verduyckt. Apparently, Mrs Daems also had a question about this. That's the statement, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u75	I will try to answer, and if you are not satisfied, I will come back to you with more specific answers. But improvising on the spot, on sale in Dutch, is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u76	I, too, am learning every day how to conduct a meeting properly. In any case, I think it would be useful, for a better understanding and understanding, to go into the first problem in this committee. It is a term that is often put forward as the solution, but the question of its effects is probably not answered in 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u77	Mr President, despite all the political efforts, the revenues of auction rights are currently being blocked pending a new cooperation agreement between the federal government and the regions. The Fit for 55 package has expanded the subject of the negotiations on a cooperation agreement and has also made it somewhat more challenging by the need for the federal government and the three entities to share strengthened objectives, but also possibly new revenues. Although I still have good hope that we will soon find a political agreement, I believe that, in a context of rising energy prices, it cannot be justified that more than EUR 300 million of revenue from allowances is already blocked unused. I believe that this money can best be invested in climate policy in order to structurally reduce the energy bill of families and businesses. In order to ensure that the many millions of auction revenues are not unnecessarily blocked in a waiting account, as has been done so far this year, but in order to be able to use the money quickly and efficiently for which it is intended to be effective, I will indeed give a hand to the regional colleagues to use the old distribution key once for the year 2021, pending a new cooperation agreement, so that, first of all, the regions can use those resources to implement a strong climate policy within their powers for, among other things, energy savings. I am aware that those resources, which can be made available in the short term, are not sufficient to ensure a fair and inclusive transition. That is why I am also using the European proposals under Fit for 55 to move forward, including with the Social Climate Fund. Within the federal government, we already agree that if families or SMEs pay additional CO2 costs for domestic or motor fuels through federal or European decisions, those funds should also be returned to families and SMEs and trigger a progressive income effect. I hope that everyone can find something in this answer. Mrs Daems, Mr Ravyts, if that is not the case for you, I am prepared to add the answer I had prepared for you to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u78	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u79	I've made a summary of a number of answers. I can give the specific answers to each question for the report, but if you like, I can also give a more specific answer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for clarifying your position on the EUR 350 million. I'll read them with attention. We need to think about the advantages and disadvantages of this ETS system. Mr Verduyckt, I shudder somewhat for the atmosphere created by Vivaldi, namely that we simply have to persevere. Citizens and businesses must continue this transition period to 100% renewable energy and then the negative impact of the allowances will be resolved. When the Empire of God comes, everything is resolved, but there is still a long way to go. In the meantime, however, we must do it with rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u81	Mr Ravyts, we are facing a huge transition in the areas of energy, mobility and housing, creating the atmosphere that this will cost us nothing, neither effort nor money. Of course, people will be fooled. The same goes for the colleague of the PVDA. Whether it concerns the ETS, the carbon market or the carbon price, everything is rejected. I am waiting for the day when the PVDA will come forward with concrete proposals instead of criticizing proposals that every environmental economist says are absolutely necessary for the transition. One may find the need for water very bad, but one must also be able to tell people that something is being done about it. It is, of course, very important that the transition is social. The Minister referred to the Social Climate Fund, which will have to be used mainly in the expansion of the ETS to help the families most affected by this transition. That seems to me to be only normal, because there will undoubtedly be an impact on the invoice and the proposal to look at these effects is certainly not absurd. Pretending that these systems are only there to bully citizens and completely ignore the transition, I fit in perfectly for that atmosphere. Madam Minister, today the key has apparently been blocked and I have not heard in your reply how you could possibly contribute to an agreement with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u82	This theme deserves more analysis and understanding, but has no need for slogans, nor in one sense, nor in the other. At the request of the firm, I would like to point out that the questions that come 24 hours before the commission are more difficult to prepare properly. Mrs Daems, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u83	Thank you for answering my question, Madam Secretary. You said that you have prepared more, and you can always give me that preparation in writing, because I am quite interested in that. You believe that the ETS is a solution to energy prices, while the opposite is true. Electricity prices just increased because of the ETS price. In other words, you are proposing the cause of the problem as the solution. That's remarkable. I've warned you about that several times. Leaving climate policy to market mechanisms leads to perverse effects. It's inefficient and antisocial. That's what the Green Deal does. The fact that you are defending that shows that you have a neoliberal vision. What we need is a completely different approach, a public approach. I will continue to draw your attention to the social consequences of your and European climate policy. You said that we never come up with solutions, Mr Verduyckt. I believe that I have often suggested solutions here in committee: binding standards for large polluters, a Red Green Deal, a climate investment bank, investments in public transport and investments in retraining for green jobs. However, proposing the cause of a problem as a solution is not one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u84	Before I turn to my question, may I suggest to you that when members of the committee want their question to be attached to that of the others on the agenda, this will be done at the beginning of the sitting, so that each of the Members can organize themselves according to the agenda of several other committees that are held at the same time? In advance, thank you. Minister, on Saturday, September 4, 2021, at its congress in Marseille, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature released the update of its red list of endangered species. This text reveals that one quarter of mammals, one in seven birds, and one third of amphibians and conifers are at risk on a global scale. In this regard, the IUCN Red List official pointed out, inter alia, that this state of affairs suggested the emergence of a sixth massive extinction in the history of life. During the congress, IUCN also presented its green status of species, an indicator for assessing the potential for recovery of threatened species and the impact of policies put in place to that end. Minister, can we have your views on the conclusions of the IUCN World Congress on the State of Biodiversity? Given the availability of IUCN tools, are specific commitments envisaged for, inter alia, the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to be held next month? In advance, thank you for your answers. It also goes without saying, in reply to Mr. President, and to you, Madam Minister, that the Rules of Procedure allow for questions within 24 hours. It is always possible for action to be taken to adapt this regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u85	Mr Senesael, you are right, but in this case it was not twenty-four hours but two minutes before the end. I don't know if you're covered by the remark, but I asked the president to make that reminder. Members have the chance to have one month to table the hundreds of questions they want, but to give a satisfactory and detailed answer, as you usually receive, Mr Senesael, it takes a little time. Mr Senesael, the IUCN World Nature Congress concludes with a series of observations and appeals that I also bring to the level of the federal government as part of what has been agreed in our government agreement. IUCN brings together over 1,400 public and private organizations and provides a network of over 18,000 experts. They recalled the alarming fact already set out in the 2019 IPBES Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. They call on governments to implement a nature-based post-pandemic recovery and have adopted a series of resolutions and commitments aimed at urgently addressing the interconnected crises of climate and biodiversity. It is too early to specifically answer your second question, but it is clear that the IUCN World Nature Congress is an important moment on the way to COP15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity. It will eventually take place in two parts. The opening of COP15 will be well in October 2021 with decision-making allowing the COP process to continue and a high-level virtual segment to help continue the process that has already been postponed twice because of the covid-19. The adoption of the global biodiversity framework is expected in the spring of 2022 during face-to-face negotiations that are actively prepared in various fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you for clarifying the agenda. I am obviously curious to discover the strategies and proposals that will be put forward in order to meet the commitments we have made. I will certainly come back to you in a timely manner to find out the results of these steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u87	Questions Nos 55020797C and 55020798C by Mélissa Hanus are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u88	Mr President, Minister, in April 2021 you came out with the news that you wanted to phase out soya and palm oil as a raw material for biofuels for consumption in Belgium through a royal decision under the Product Standards Act. However, the Royal Decree received a negative opinion from the European Commission. Therefore, together with your fellow Minister for Energy, you decided to exclude biofuel based on soya and palm oil from the obligation to mix in the Royal Decree implementing the National Energy and Climate Plan. The NEKP provides for 10.2% of biofuels in the energy mix for transport, although only 1.75% of them are mandatory by the European Union. The remaining part of the renewable energy and transport objective may be filled in with other energy sources. The target can also be reduced by 7% if Belgium does not use biofuels based on food and fodder. Unfortunately, on the basis of the figures in your press release, I can calculate that Belgium provides for the energy mix for transport in 2022 for the use of as much as 8.3 % of first generation biofuels. Belgium makes good use of the too narrow EU definition of food and fodder to use more than 7% of first generation biofuels. With the exclusion of biofuels based on soya and palm oil, the problem is therefore far from being resolved. As long as there is no total ban on the use of first generation biofuels, we will simply get a shift to other crops with similar ecological and social damage. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. What reasons did the European Commission give for the negative opinion on your first draft royal decision? How did you take this into account in the Royal Decree implementing the NEKP? Why did you opt for exclusion from the obligation to mix instead of a general ban on the use of biofuels based on soya and palm oil? How do you account for the high obligation to mix biofuels of the first generation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Daems, the European Commission has indeed expressed a detailed opinion at the end of June 2021 on an article in the draft Royal Decree governing the sustainability criteria for biofuels. In fact, the article in question deals with a ban on the placing on the market of biofuels from palm and soya oil. The European Commission's opinion was not negative, but pointed to the legal risks of such a ban. The European Commission pointed out that the ban goes beyond the provisions of the RED2 regulation and that it may hinder intra-Community trade. The European Commission also pointed out that the ban raises questions of compatibility with WTO rules. The detailed opinion was taken together with a standstill period until 23 September 2021, which is a period of no publication. As my colleagues and I are determined not to tolerate the consumption of palm oil and soya oil, which cause deforestation, as soon as possible, we have indeed agreed on a different path for the planned phasing-out. The standstill period, but even more so the possibility of legal disputes delaying phasing-out, led us to that decision. That is why I am very pleased that palm and soya oil biofuels no longer count for the objectives of the RED2 from January 2023 and July 2023 respectively. You can ask the Minister for Energy for more information on the definition and how biofuels of the first generation will be handled. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that we read the European Commission's opinion in such a way that it would be preferable to adopt the royal decision on incorporation. This Article 24 will therefore be removed from the royal decision on the sustainability criteria for biofuels, as we take further steps towards publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The high obligation for first generation biofuels is really irresponsible in the light of climate change, the biodiversity crisis, the world food problem, land use change, use conflicts and human rights violations. That is irresponsible, and it is remarkable that you, as an ecologist, go along with it and close your eyes to it. Not only soy and palm oil-based biofuels, but all first-generation biofuels must be phased out immediately. We are convinced that biofuels are a false solution for the sustainability of our transport. I know you know that too, so let us limit the use of biofuels to the minimum that the EU imposes on us, namely 1.75% of advanced biofuels. We also believe that you have a moral obligation to negotiate at EU level to remove the obligation to use advanced biofuels from the renewable energy directive. Really sustainable solutions for our transport are indeed possible. Think of well-developed and affordable public transport and rail freight transport as a backbone, so without false solutions such as biofuels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u91	Mr. Warmoes has two more questions to ask. By way of introduction, I can already tell you that there is an intention to convene a joint committee because there are a lot of questions about floods. The various competent ministers could be called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u92	I leave it to the minister to decide to what extent she will respond today or whether she is relying on the joint committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u93	Mr President, I am somewhat surprised by your comments. That there is a joint committee is one thing. I have no doubt that Mrs Khattabi will answer my questions. Indeed, the existence of a committee does not detract from the right of Members to question ministers, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u94	Nothing prevents me from holding on to what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u95	Of course, Mr President, you can say what you want! On the other hand, we have our doubts about this joint committee, but that is something else! I had two questions, one about mitigation and the other about adaptation. I will not dwell on the weather this summer. Everyone is aware of the severe floods that have affected the country, with nearly 40 deaths, hundreds of uninhabitable homes and thousands of homes seriously damaged, not to mention public infrastructure. These floods have particularly affected the more impoverished populations, the working populations who usually live in the valleys. However, it is not the working class that bears the greatest responsibility for the climate problem. Yes, "man" is responsible for climate change, but in reality it is mainly the richest people and companies who are responsible for the problem. The richest 10% are responsible for half of the world's CO2 emissions. And here in Belgium, five multinationals are issuing together as much as all Belgian households. But the neoliberal climate policy pursued so far, including by this government, leaves aside the big polluters and systematically postpones the climate bill on the citizen, who is also suffering the adverse consequences of climate change. To date, climate policy has been particularly inefficient and costly for the population. However, the IPCC is very clear in its sixth assessment report: extreme weather events will become more frequent. The government fails in this regard, as the verdict in the climate case showed. However, three months after the verdict, no further action was taken and the Belgian climate objective was not brought into line with what is scientifically necessary. The climate plaintiffs rightly speak of guilty negligence in their open letter to the government last Thursday. Minister, when are you going to take your responsibilities and take action to reduce Belgian emissions by at least 65% by 2030, as science deems necessary? How are you going to ensure that the big polluters take responsibility for reducing their emissions and that the working class does not have to pay the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u96	Mr Warmoes, the federal government has joined the new European reduction target by less than 55% by 2030. This represents an increase in the level of ambition by more than one third compared to the old European target of minus 40%. This greater ambition has only received Belgium's support after intense consultations – I am not teaching you anything. In such a national context, this is the maximum possible ambition today, but I will of course continue to work towards the success of its achievement, with a desire to go beyond it. Indeed, the European objective sets a threshold but no ceiling. It should be noted that the current target for 2020, i.e. less than 20%, has also been largely exceeded. Similarly, the 2030 target is set at a minimum minus 55%. The minimum word is therefore very important. It is now up to us to translate this objective into an effective and fair policy, within the framework of the negotiations on the Fit for 55 package that is opening. Under this package, the reduction target for the EU ETS is reduced from 43% to 61% on a proposal from the Commission. The air navigation sector is now one of them for intra-European flights. According to the new proposal, the maritime sector will also be integrated into the EU ETS. There is no doubt that an effort is being made by industry in Europe. The point of attention you raise is justified. I will continue to ensure that efforts are equitably distributed in our society. The transition must be fair and synonymous with both social progress and economic progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u97	Madam Minister, thank you and take note of your answer. You speak of minimum minus 55% and you say that it is not possible to go further today. However, as you mentioned, I hope that you will continue to plead for further progress. For us, the main thing is to listen to scientists and their proposals. This issue has long been addressed by the IPCC. Scientific knowledge evolves over time. Today, 55% is not enough. On the other hand, you say that efforts must be equitably distributed. We believe that a tax policy, such as that which the European Union is in the process of implementing with the extension of the ETS outside the industrial sectors, is discriminatory, since these taxes are not linked to people's incomes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u98	We talked about limiting climate change and its effects as much as possible. It is from the point of view, as recently emphasized by the IPCC, that this climate change is well under way and that some changes will no longer be preventable or even reversible. I will not deal with the floods themselves. But we believe that the various governments in Belgium are taking steps to limit the damage. Our view is that flood damage could have been less if governments had taken the necessary measures both in the short and long term. For the institutional absurdity that federal MRI is not allowed to warn of flooding in the regions because it can only predict precipitation, you proposed the creation of a climate OCAM to predict climate-related disasters and to warn in time of their occurrence. It would be the umpteenth climate body in our country's institutional lasagna. After all, our country already has many climatic bodies (at all levels of power), but they do not work well because of the scattered order that hostile federalism has installed in our country. Would it not therefore be preferable to remedy the institutional fragmentation of the climate landscape before adding a new body? In the current institutional context, won't your OCAM suffer the same fate as MRI during this summer's floods? In addition to preventing climate change, we must also adapt to the consequences that already exist. In order to prevent flooding, we need to give more space to rivers, change land use, stop grazing them and change the way we grow, i.e. take action in the field of agriculture. I know these are mostly regional subjects, but in your policy statement, you said that you would ensure that a new national adaptation plan is developed this year. What is the state of play? What measures can we expect? Are you in favour of establishing a federal commission of inquiry to determine responsibility for this climate disaster? In the meantime the special commission has been proposed!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u99	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, I have given a very detailed answer on the OCAM. Partly, I'm referring you to that. The lasagna you describe is totally fair and inefficient. I can only join you on this point. I also join you in your concern that the climate issue is beyond this institutional lasagna. I would point out, however, that this institution is not intended to replace scientific research or existing public policy bodies, but rather to exploit all available scientific sources, to carry out a meta-analysis and to point out possible shortcomings, to carry out a sound assessment, in a risk analysis such as the OCAM carries out for terrorist risk. From my point of view, climate risk must now be seen structurally through a risk analysis structure. Please also note that at Walloon level, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry is responsible for exploring the causes, management and responsibilities of the floods last July. On June 28, 2021, the National Climate Commission approved the terms of reference of the intra-Belgian task force on adaptation to develop a new integrated national adaptation plan by spring 2022. The working group will take into account recent studies on climate change and its impacts, the EU adaptation strategy and others. Details are available on the website of the National Climate Commission. As far as your last question is concerned, although I have a personal opinion on the matter, it is up to Parliament to decide whether or not to establish a federal commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u100	You're absolutely right, Minister! This is a very big disaster. Scientists predict that events like this will happen again. I hope we will be better prepared next time. In the event of a crisis, a unit of command is required. I hope you agree. According to our analysis, this was one of the reasons why the answer was not adequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u101	That is the reason for my proposal for an OCAM Climate. It's a unit of command.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic571x.u102	There is a joint Chamber-Senate commission on the issue of the division of responsibilities between the federal and regional governments. It is no secret to anyone that we are for more skills at the federal level. Among other things, we plead for the re-federalization of water policy. It is indeed a bit absurd that the federal government should be responsible for the drop of water that falls from the sky and that the regional should be responsible for it when it falls on the ground. We also know that the majority of our main rivers go beyond linguistic boundaries. I do not dwell further on these considerations, but at some point we will have to discuss them. For the rest, I am not targeting you specifically, Madam Minister. But the political world will still be responsible for a dispersal of skills with all that this leads to as problems in the prevention and management of these crises, with, in this case, deaths at the key. It's important. Thank you for your answer.
