ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u1	Minister, Saxonda, a medicine to fight obesity, appeared a few years ago. It is extremely expensive with a price ranging from 120 euros to several hundred euros, depending on the dosage and number of pens the patient needs. However, this treatment is currently not reimbursed in Belgium, as is the only other medicine available against obesity, namely Orlistat. It is quite disturbing that obesity is similar to a chronic disease and therefore requires long-term treatment. In addition, this medication also regulates blood sugar levels and some people with diabetes are also sometimes required to take it. This medicine therefore represents heavy long-term expenditure, which patients do not always have the ability to cope with financially. Minister, have any claims been submitted by the firms concerned to the AFMPS? Why are there no refunds for these treatments today? What alternatives are available to the patients concerned? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u2	Mr President, dear colleague, the medicine Saxenda received a marketing authorisation from the European Commission in 2015. In April 2020, Novo Nordisk requested reimbursement from INAMI. According to my information, the firm suspended the procedure. According to the therapeutic indications recorded, Saxonda is never given alone to patients with obesity. This is clearly a supplement linked to a low calorie diet and an increase in physical activity. Therefore, I will not comment on an ongoing procedure at INAMI, whether it is favourable or unfavourable to reimbursement in Belgium. I apologise for this ultra short answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u3	Mr Minister, I am quite surprised by this short answer, but I will remain attentive to the processing of this dossier, particularly as regards the alternatives for the people concerned. As explained in my question, obesity must be treated and considered as a chronic disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u4	Mr President, Minister, those who receive certain social benefits are automatically entitled to an increased allowance. People who are covered by a certain income limit are also entitled to do so, but they must apply to the sickness fund. Not everyone is aware of this, as the right is not automatically granted. So there is certainly still a margin to improve the system of automatic allocation. In recent years, there has been a project called pro-active flux, in which the sickness funds themselves had to proactively contact people who might have been eligible for an increased benefit. What is the status of this project? How was that evaluated? Will the health insurance funds continue to work on this? In addition to the concession in itself, there are also certain advantages, such as a discount on public transport. What is the state of play in the automation of this link? In what way will you work with the relevant ministers to counter the non-take-up of these rights and benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Willaert, the proactive flux has been created for the year 2015, and you have clearly defined what it is about. The effects of this proactive detection of the increased concession were investigated by the RIZIV. At the end of that exercise on 1 January 2018, the right to increased compensation was granted to 160.553 persons who were transmitted through this proactive flux in 2015. Of these, 132 965 persons opened the law, after an examination by the sickness fund, and 27.588 persons automatically opened the law. Given the positive results of the proactive flux 2015 it has been decided to organise the system annually from 2020. I am aware that the increased allowance not only increases access to compulsory medical care insurance for those with low incomes, but is also an instrument of excellence in the fight against poverty. Indeed, it is often linked to other benefits other than compulsory medical care insurance such as discounts on public transport or a cheaper gas and electricity tariff. The automatic granting of these benefits on the basis of the increased concession is done via the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. The KSZ is responsible for providing the authorities granting additional rights with a secure, rapid and reliable consultation of the data necessary for the correct establishment of these rights. The social security network provides access to various authentic sources for the search of the necessary information. In addition, the KSZ has established a so-called buffer database in which quarterly information, which is often used as a basis for granting derived rights, is kept up-to-date in an updated manner. In this respect, the RIZIV participates in the project as the competent authority for the increased concession, harmonised social statutes, derived rights of the KSZ, promoting the automatic granting of rights rather than granting them on explicit demand. The aim is to reduce the number and complexity of the statutes used and to harmonise the conditions for granting them. In addition, RIZIV participates as a stakeholder in several working groups that fight against the non-take-up of social rights and benefits in general, including the BELMOD project which aims to improve access to social protection in Belgium and which is funded by the European Commission, and the Take-project which investigates the causes of non-take-up and is organised by the FPS Social Security, the University of Antwerp, the University of Liège and the Federal Planning Bureau. I hope this information is useful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u6	Minister, your answer is certainly useful. Very good results had been achieved. It is very good that this project will be repeated annually by the mutualities. The coalition agreement also states that the aim is to continue to optimise the allocation of automatic rights. I note that many initiatives are being taken and that the RIZIV participates in various working groups. It also looks at how the exchange of information can be made even more efficient and easier. I'd say even more of that. It's not a simple matter. We haven't always made it easy in this country. The people who have certain rights must not be the victims of this. We need to make sure they don't miss these rights. I wish you every success in further initiatives in this area, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u7	Mr President, neonatal testing is the responsibility of the federated entities. An intercabinets working group of the Interdepartmental Conference on Health reviewed during the previous legislature the diseases that should be added to the screening of newborns, including sickle cell disease. As a first step, priority was given to neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis, which was integrated into neonatal screening organized by federated entities in 2019. Screening is not mandatory. It is important to properly inform target groups so that they make a conscious choice to participate. Neonatal screening programs must be based on considerations of scientific evidence, social acceptability and efficacy. They aim for health gains at the population level. In-depth research is therefore required prior to the decision at the level of the federated entities to include an additional disease in neonatal screening. The extension of neonatal testing to other diseases will be discussed in consultation with the federated entities when the Interministerial Conference can take up topics that will not be linked to the covid crisis, which unfortunately requires our full attention for the time being. As regards the establishment of a code for the follow-up of patients, the diagnosis of the patient is included in the medical file, which can be consulted by care providers who have a therapeutic relationship with the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I mean that the services and the various ministers are being extremely pressured by the health crisis. If I wanted to question you about sickle cell disease, it's because it's a disease that continues to affect patients a lot. It affects more than 50,000 people in Belgium, i.e. one in every 2,000 births. Beyond the question of the regional nature of neonatal testing, I believe that other issues deserve to be addressed and can already be addressed today, even in times of health crisis. I am thinking not only of the training of doctors, but also of the reimbursement of psychomotorism sessions, because if we fail to make a proper reimbursement of these sessions, we will finally increase the precariousness or at least the financial difficulties of these families. However, we know precisely that the health crisis has had the effect of increasing their precariousness. I think that this is really an issue that your government must be able to tackle because, as with any treatment, the budgetary impact on the state will be much less if we are to detect the disease as soon as possible and support patients from an early age rather than close our eyes to their reality and therefore ensure that the disease worsens and leads to complications. It is more a political choice here than a choice dictated by the current circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u9	Mr President, Madam Member, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) is the body responsible for authorising the placing on the market of health products, following medical devices legislation. It decides, in accordance with other legislation, whether a product or a family of products can be used in the field of health. From an environmental point of view, we cannot speak of a specific rule. Gases in the family of sevofluranes or desfluranes are indeed fluorinated gases, but are not subject to a framework for their production or use by international treaties such as the Montreal Protocol, as amended in Kigali, which deals with the protection of the stratospheric ozone layer, or the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. They are also not included in European Regulation 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases (Annexes I and II). Moreover, since they were used in medicine, they would probably have been subject to derogations. As for your question about the Deltasorb device, allow me not to take a position on a specific technique or company. In addition, I cannot adequately answer your question about waste recycling, as this is within the purview of the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer again; clear and succinct. As far as the environmental impact of gas used in hospitals is concerned, I understand that no regulation under international and European law is justiciable. This cannot allow the Belgian Government to discharge its responsibility. Why not set up a framework to regulate the use of these gases? For the rest, I also mean a certain closure to the use of certain companies which would enable us to help us sort out waste or to treat contaminated waste. I regret that because it is a question that arises with some urgency. We have seen that, throughout this crisis, hospitals were unable to evacuate the large quantities of waste in time to incinerate them. When I wrote my question, I also found that the Public Health FPS had made recommendations on its site regarding the management of health care waste, but these recommendations date back to 2005. Perhaps it would be time to update them, especially since technology has changed considerably since then, both in terms of efficiency and financial accessibility. Finally, I would like to stress once again the need to work on this issue because it is a matter of the safety of medical personnel. It is also an environmental and budgetary benefit for our hospitals. Finally, the use of Belgian companies that have developed innovative decontamination technologies would also enable us to promote our economy. It is not negligible during the current period of crisis that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u11	Mr President, Minister, a while ago an article appeared in De Tijd in which Secretary of State for the Budget Eva De Bleeker indicated that he wanted to examine public expenditure, including expenditure in the health sector. It aims to save EUR 40 million on a budget of EUR 30 billion, through a review of hospital funding, more specifically referring to day-to-day recordings. Was this discussed with you? If so, what does the Secretary of State intend to do? How does this saving translate into practice? What is the effect of this on the hospitals and patients? Do you consider the size of this saving realistic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, I am not aware of any planned savings in the daily hospitalization sector. However, an amount of EUR 40 million is mentioned in the National Medical Funds Agreement, under point 2.3.2. However, this amount is not linked to daily withdrawals and will also be reinvested in other measures. However, there are ongoing work on daily hospitalization, which I can explain to you. In 2019, the Hospital Insurance Institutions Agreement Committee and the Federal Board of Hospital Facilities worked out a vision paper on the revision of the operation, organisation and financing of the day hospitalization. The note is based, inter alia, on the finding that the further development of day hospitalization is hampered by the financing system. This has also been confirmed in a study of the 2017 Knowledge Centre. This brings with it that many interventions still occur in classical hospitalization, while they can also be done via day hospitalization. The second part of the vision paper sets out a proposal for a new definition for day hospitalization and addresses organisational and financial aspects and evolutions. For example, medically the distinction between surgical and non-surgical benefits in kind is fading and developments in anaesthesia also require adjustments in the organisation of day hospitals and funding. The third part deals with the essential conditions to stimulate day hospitalization, such as cost-covering funding, which also takes into account the transfer of traditional intakes to day hospitalization and the increasing intensification of care, a medical expert group updating the lists annually pending a system of alternative criteria replacing the lists, aligning the related fees for supervision and coordination for patients in day hospitalization, aligning the costs borne by the patient in day hospitalization versus classical intake, and a system of benchmarking which includes quality parameters. In doing so, I have given you a long list of conditions to stimulate daily hospitalization. Article 14 of the National Agreement on Hospital Insurance Institutions, in force since 1 January 2020, includes commitments for the evaluation of the daily hospitalisation lists in the implementation of that Vision Note. Within the bosom of the Technical Medical Council, a permanent working group on daily hospitalization was established in 2020. This working group is assisted for its opinions by experts from the professional organisations of the Belgian Association of Ambulatory Surgery and the Federation of Belgian Doctors Specialists. In 2020, on the basis of a first opinion from that working group, one provision was already removed from the list of daily hospitalisation. In March 2021, a more comprehensive opinion is expected on the basis of which the Agreement Commission will decide on the amendment of the Agreement and will make a proposal for the adaptation of the List of Surgical Hospitalisations. In addition to the forum for medical experts, a financial working group on daily hospitalization has been set up. On a proposal from that working group, the Federal Council for Hospital Facilities will issue an opinion in 2020 on, inter alia, short-term adjustments to the financing technique of the budget for surgical hospitalisation's financial resources. I am convinced that within these bodies and working groups, made up of representatives of the Agreement Committee, the Federal Board of Hospital Services, the National Committee on Medical Funds and the Technical Medical Council, progress is being made towards delivering opinions that will enable decisions to be taken in 2021 that will strengthen the further development of day hospitalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u13	Thank you, Minister. If I understand correctly, what Secretary of State De Bleeker indicated was not entirely well-spoken with you. I'd better keep a close eye on my budgets before something disappears that you don't know about. It is a good story that you indicate, namely that it is being used to stimulate and better enable dayhospitalization. Most hospitals also seem to me to be asking for funding to be adjusted. I understand that it is not until tomorrow and that there is still some work to be done before further steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u14	Question No 55014539C by Piedboeuf is postponed. Questions Nos 55014540C and 55014936C of Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u15	Minister, I have recently met a person with stiff man's syndrome and I am puzzled by his history. Over the years, the patient had to perform numerous tests and tried several treatments, without success. Recently, he has been receiving immunoglobulin treatment and his body seems to tolerate it. He again manages to master his muscles and regains some independence. However, Belgium, unlike Germany and other countries – I have done my research – does not recognize this medicine for the treatment of stiff man's syndrome and therefore the mutual does not intervene in the expense. Annually, the costs for this treatment would amount to about 40 000 euros, which is enormous. This gentleman and his wife, as well as the family, are really facing existential problems. Since this treatment is already accepted by mutuals for other diseases or fields of medicine in Belgium, such as oncology, would it not be possible to recognise it also for stiff man syndrome? If not, why is this not possible? If you don't have an answer or if the answer should be too succinct, do you have any thoughts that could help me rescue this person whose destiny, I admit, affects me a lot?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u16	My dear Member, I will not comment on the medical case or on the individual judicial file under way at the Arbeitsgericht (Tribunal of Labour) in Eupen, but I will decide on the aspects relating to reimbursement. I can only see certain facts. Stiff human syndrome is not part of the indications for placing immunoglobulins on the market. The INAMI Reimbursement Commission has never received an application for reimbursement on the grounds of absence of recognized risks/benefits. A Phase 1 study, the first step towards marketing authorisation, was carried out with a positive effect in the years to come. It is a study published in the well-known journal The New England Journal of Medicine in 2001. Since then, nothing concrete. It takes two decades, until 2018, to launch a Phase 3 study. The Mayo Clinic, a renowned hospital in the United States, officially states that it wants to study whether there is a symptomatic effect in this syndrome. This study has not started since then for unrevealed reasons. The aspect of evidence (evidence) or lack of evidence is one of the basic criteria that the INAMI College of Medical Officers takes into account in granting financial assistance from INAMI in specific cases or not. It is therefore a question of checking whether the experimental stage is over, which is not the case here, as I have just explained. In general, the KCE recommends reimbursement of immunoglobulins of label for diseases for which there is clear evidence. The reason for this is that Belgium has experienced acute problems with the supply of immunoglobulin. Therefore, it is imperative to take careful care of the choice of reimbursement of immunoglobulins in the marketing indications and in particular in situations outside the package leaflet. Over the past twenty years, the Superior Council of Health has never included Stiff Person on the list of diseases for which immunoglobulins are to be taken into account. In 2019, the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) cites this indication but does not recommend it. I guess my answer may seem somewhat disappointing, but I really have to rely on scientific and clinical evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u17	I am not angry with you, minister; I see that you have informed yourself and that you have been well documented by your administration. Thank you for the work done at this level. One is not faced with a rare disease for which treatment is not known; some treatments appear to have an effect but no help is offered. As a simple legislator, I don't understand things like you just explained them to me. I therefore remain puzzled because in the end no aid will be granted, if I have understood correctly, and that is a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u18	Mr President, I can only stay until 5 p.m., which is probably not long enough for my questions. 55014865C and 55014866C. If we get this far today, I would ask you to postpone it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u19	Minister, the colleagues who were already part of the Committee on Health during the previous legislature can already predict that you will hear me often on the subject, at least if you do not surprise me by finally solving the problem of the RIZIV numbers. So far, however, I do not see much of it happening. The issue has been dragging on for decades, because the French-speaking side does not really follow federal law. By the way, much worse is that every Flemish party, except mine, has allowed that for decades. Last summer a temporary solution was developed for the transfer to medical students, via the KB of 16 August on the planning of the medical offer. However, that was just not what needed to happen and caused increasing concern in Flanders. There is even more uncertainty about the number of RIZIV numbers and quota attestations available, especially if such a KB is published again in the coming summer. With the exception of the six specializations, a back door is opened, which makes the calculation of the quota very difficult. It is not at all unthinkable that some candidates will challenge the quota, since the six exceptions are de facto an unlimited flow, which, of course, is very useful on the French-speaking side. Flanders has been committed for years to a high-quality medical education and will continue to do so. That is why a few years ago a system with a numerus fixus was switched, absolutely the path to be followed to achieve the most efficient filter possible. However, the legitimacy of this system is completely undermined by the fact that in the French-speaking part of this country, despite the federal legislation in force, no working filter has been developed after 20 years. The Flemish candidates have felt unfairly treated for years. Are you planning to publish a similar KB this year, including the exceptions? Will you consult with Minister Désir of the French Community on the installation of a working filter for French-speaking candidate medical students? Will you at least try that again? If there is a successor KB, will you take measures to ensure that the exceptions for certain specializations do not lead to an unlimited outflow? What will you do about the surplus that has been built up for years? In fact, a payment plan was drawn up for this, but this is completely ignored by the current KBs and the annual remission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u20	The French Community has indeed tried several filters in recent years, such as the introduction of an exam at the end of the first year, which was rejected by the Council of State, and since 2017 the organisation of the entrance examination in the medical and dental sciences to limit entry. At the moment, it is difficult to say whether or not this filter will be sufficient. Only six years later will we be able to evaluate its effectiveness. The previous trials and errors have not been able to limit the number of graduates. I understand that this creates a strong feeling of injustice for the Dutch people. That is why I am currently examining, as included in the government agreement, the possibility of setting up an inter-federal planning body to ensure that all actors take full responsibility for their actions within their specific competence. The common objective should be to optimise the planning of the medical supply, so that quality care can be provided by qualified professionals, the number of whom is suitable to meet the needs of the population. Planning is indeed a complex issue, where each level of policy is responsible for a number of aspects. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we monitor together the follow-up and achievement of that objective. The Federal Planning Commission plays an important role in determining the need for medical supplies, but soon the Communities will also have a specific committee. It is therefore time that the actions of the various levels of policy coincide, so that there would be sufficient qualified professionals to take care of the Belgian population. The planning committee, which is the federal advisory body, is now finalising an opinion on the quota doctors 2027. On that basis, we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u21	Unfortunately, Minister, I have no doubt that we will continue the debate. Our party has been holding the debate for 14 years. A few things have been tried on the French-speaking side. I do not know how naive you are in politics, but it is quite clear that it is absolutely not the intention on the French-speaking side to come up with an effective filter. I do not think you believe that anymore; you have been in politics for far too long. Moreover, as long as you allow the arrangements to be made there, after which, at the end of the journey, you will be absolving yourself, because, of course, those poor students are the victims of malpractice in French-speaking Belgium, the problem will continue to exist. So you will have to do a little more than just sit down at the table and try to talk. It is high time that on the French-speaking side the consequences of malpractice were borne alone and not by the federal level, in other words, also by Flanders. For 20 years, Flanders has been the only one telling students that some cannot start this training and is the only one organizing a qualitative training course, with no too many students in the auditorium as a result. Minister, I would advise you to take the matter more seriously than I can now draw from your answer, otherwise you will be facing some more trouble with me. I can tell you that on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u22	Mr President, Minister, even today, an article in Sudpress informs us about the terrible situation of psychiatric care, mental health with an occupation of 95% of the 1,600 psychiatric beds in the Brussels Region. In the 65 mental health centres in Wallonia, demands are exploding and services are saturated. The 300 psychiatric beds of the CHU de Charleroi are occupied, etc. It is always the same call from mental health centres, psychologists and psychiatrists who ask for support. Fortunately, Mr Minister, you were referring to a budget of EUR 112 million for more accessible support for students, more mobile care and more attention for those over the age of 65. Minister, can you detail each of these three measures? On what basis did you determine the target audiences? Have you ever set a schedule? As you mentioned, the challenge today is to find the staff? How do you intend to meet this challenge? You are also talking about the implementation of a major mental health plan. What is he? What are the main priorities and target audiences? What budget will be dedicated to this large-scale plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u23	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rigot, mental health care is a top priority for the years to come. We must take steps to prevent, as far as possible, people from developing psychic problems by detecting them and intervening as quickly as possible. I have proposed to the government to invest €112 million in the development of front-line psychological care. Since your question does not focus on this subject, I will not develop the idea that perhaps you already know: that of putting in place early interventions for the rapid detection of problems that are developing, in particular in order to avoid people being obliged to be hospitalized or to be cared for by means of highly specialized mental health care. We are in the process of consulting and negotiating the concrete implementation of this 112 million euro budget with all the players in mental health care in a transversal convention commission within INAMI. Unfortunately, it takes time. Concertation is necessary, but it is a long-term effort. As you rightly said, because of the pandemic, we must not waste time. That is why I am taking action in the short term. For example, in mid-February, I took the decision to strengthen mobile crisis teams both in terms of their operational budget and staff. In addition, last Friday, the Government decided, with a temporary view, to take three additional measures immediately. These emergency measures will be deployed in the coming weeks. The first measure concerns group sessions in universities or colleges for students who are in difficulty. The idea is to organize low-threshold group sessions for these students. For the time being, these sessions will take place online and will be organised by universities and colleges. They will be aimed at students who want to fight stress, morosity or anxiety. The objective is to reimburse the students concerned for these sessions. To this end, we are planning an amount of EUR 1.5 million. Cooperation involves university colleges, student associations and university psychotherapy centres. With the planned amount, it will be possible to hire some 20 professionals who will be able to lead these group sessions. To implement this measure, we have relied on experiences in other countries that have proven to be very promising. The second measure concerns complementary investment in mobile teams. As you said, young people and young adults may suffer from psychological disorders such as anxiety, depressive state, lack of social contacts or a growing sense of insecurity in this context of containment. So these are not always very serious complaints. However, it is important to provide support as quickly as possible, anticipate and seek solutions to these problems. This is not only about dealing with these complaints, but also about preventing the worst by strengthening mobile teams by 50% for young people between the ages of 16 and 23. These teams are coming to their homes. They can also visit them at the PMS school or centre. An amount of €3.7 million has been provided for this purpose. The third measure concerns the deployment of mobile teams for people over the age of 65. This is an important innovation. Today, there is little assistance available to people over the age of 65 who are seeking immediate help. An amount of €21.7 million has been earmarked to extend mobile adult teams to persons over 65 years of age. This segment of the population therefore falls within the scope of mobile teams. In the meantime, I have received several positive reactions from the SMEA networks to the strengthening of mobile crisis teams. The players in the network are eager to get to work to strengthen the arrangements with different qualifications such as psychologists, social workers or educators. My staff will continue to follow this process closely and will not fail to report bottlenecks as soon as they appear. Even yesterday, I visited Bru-Stars mobile teams in Brussels. I was very impressed by the dedication of these people and the quality of their actions. That is precisely what I believe needs to be strengthened today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You are right, the top priority is to act upstream, in order to avoid the use of second-line care that is heavy not only for patients but also for our health care system, which could end up engorged, as we see right now. You are also right to consult, because the expertise on the ground is the one that will allow us to be efficient and effective. We need to be strong. I am pleased that you are focusing on young people, who must not be a sacrificed generation. It is a generation that is disenchanted, at the end, and it is therefore up to us to put in place actions upstream for them. In this regard, let us also not forget our seniors, who are now in terrible conditions of isolation and difficulty. You know that this is an area that I care about, and I will remain attentive to the measures that will be put in place quickly, because there is a real urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u25	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to return to the question raised by my colleague, and I would also like to thank you for the steps you have taken. After all, it is important that we focus on the mental health of our students and our elderly people in the short term. That's definitely a good point. My question concerns the use of resources during the COOVID-19 pandemic. An analysis was made by the Doctor's Newspaper of the demand for drug use among the care providers due to the workload and concerns during the covid pandemic. It certainly had an impact on our care providers. Also Zorgnet-Icuro published a report that focuses more on the mental health care of the care providers. The conclusion is that today there is indeed an undertreatment of mental disorders. One of the recommendations in the Zorgnet-Icuro report is to focus on early intervention. I think that is a very important recommendation. What steps will you take to speed up patient guidance in mental health disorders? As far as drug use and mental disorders are concerned, we can make a very clear link here on a scientific basis. Early intervention in drug use may also contribute to the less rapid development of mental disorders and dependence. What steps will you take to accelerate the interception of drug use signals by the adult population and young people? The general practitioners are very often powerless to do so. They do not always have the ability to get help very quickly in specialised centres for their patients. Short-term crisis absorption is very difficult. What steps can you take to achieve this? On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Drugs Act, another call for the legalisation of drugs was launched. What's your opinion on that? What is the government's opinion? What impact would this have on mental health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u26	Mrs Depoorter, thank you for your kind and encouraging words about a few recent decisions. I appreciate that very much, but I realize that these are temporary and urgent decisions and that there is much more work to be done. Your question is in line with Mr Rigot's. You also emphasise early intervention, in general and also in drug use. I repeat that there is no doubt that the pandemic has a serious impact on the psychic well-being of the population. This requires that we be able to react very quickly when problems are manifesting. The general priority in policy, as I have just said to Mr Rigot, is first-line psychological support, which is accessible and well integrated and interwoven into first-line care in general, and thus early detection. The EUR 112 million is mainly intended for people with mild to moderate mental problems. The problems associated with the use of resources are, of course, also important. We must avoid them escalating to disorders, addiction or dependence. As you know, on 2 December I concluded a protocol agreement with my colleagues in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, which has been published in the Belgian Official Journal. I would also like to invest in the approach within the general practitioner's practice of anxiety, stress, sleep problems, depressed complaints and alcohol abuse through an online and offline education offer through e-learnings, LOK formations and tool books. The GePass app (General Practical Assessment Stress) also allows general practitioners to quickly and easily consult recent and scientifically validated information on stress-related psychological problems, as well as on problems with drug use. The aim of all these tools is to raise awareness of the problems of general practitioners, strengthen skills and provide useful tools for their practice. Your third question is based on the following observation: GPs are often powerless and do not always have the ability to seek help quickly from specialist centres, psychiatrists or psychiatric hospitals. What can we do about it? Indeed, in addition to the specialized, residential offer, it is important not only to further strengthen the outpatient care, but also to cooperate with the general practitioners. The mobile crisis teams and the complex and long-term care teams of the Networks and Mental Health Care for the target group adults are two specialised interventions, which can be called upon by a GP. I have just told you that I have strengthened the mobile crisis teams of the Networks and Mental Health Care for children and young people a little bit. I think that's important. I must also tell you that yesterday, when I visited Bru-Stars Molenberg, I specifically asked how smooth or not smooth and how important the referral by general practitioners is. The spontaneous answer to that question in the Brussels context was that some general practitioners know the way to the mobile teams very well and other general practitioners less well. This is undoubtedly linked to the training and training of the general practitioners in question. The answer was given in the Brussels context, I dare not extrapolate it to Flanders or Wallonia. It makes me think that it is one thing to strengthen the mobile teams, the first line, but that another matter is that of education, training, competences that people need to develop to identify certain problems and disorders early. As I said earlier in reply to Mr Rigot, we decided on additional measures last week. They still need to be rolled out, because we also need to be able to recruit the appropriate qualifications for these mobile teams. Once again, I think it is particularly important that this leads to better cooperation with the general practitioners in the first line. Then you were talking about the legalization of drugs. I would like to stress that the legalisation of drugs is an international issue, because the ban on recreational use is laid down in international conventions of 1961, 1971 and 1988. These treaties were in turn translated into European legislation. In fact, I think there are many reasons why we should have this debate at European level. If we pursue a fragmented policy, we will also have phenomena such as drug tourism, which, of course, we do not want. Although it is somewhat an open door, I would like to point out that the concept of drugs covers a very broad load with a different impact on public health, including medical applications. More generally, I believe that we should also take evidence-based action in this area. If certain measures are advocated, whether or not in the context of a debate on legalisation, it must be shown that they will have a beneficial effect on public health and that we can expect a positive effect on vulnerable groups, such as young people. Evidence is important here. We must avoid any kind of bias in any direction in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, these online tools seem to be a very good idea to me, because, on the one hand, the general practitioners themselves, who are in need, can find a quick way to help. As you also point out, they are, on the other hand, a good help in guiding patients. Bringing them into training is essential. This applies both to continuing training and to subsequent accreditation, which is within your competence. The continuing training will be a Flemish competence. I would like to nuance your answer, which you say would be an answer from Brussels because the doctors are not always finding their way. I've heard a lot of stories from doctors who are looking with their hands in their hair for a crisis shelter for their patient and can't help him or her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u28	Mrs Depoorter, I was talking specifically about the mobile teams and in that context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u29	Mr Minister, it is a work area that will have to be worked on in the coming weeks, months and years. You talked about online tools or online consultation. For the general practitioners it is very difficult to participate in the consultation on addictions and psychiatric care because they are very little renumerated. A revision of the nomenclature in this area would therefore also be possible. You mentioned the mobile teams. There are also the crossroads, which are organized with the local authorities. They indicate that they have three to four times more applications today than before the covid period. So that still indicates a very serious need. That's why I'll keep following up the file. Finally, you have conveniently cycled around the theme of legalizing drugs. I am, of course, talking about decriminalising the use and position of the government in this matter. The fact that you are an evidence-based health minister seems obvious to me. I look forward to the government coming forward with an opinion. The problem of drugs in our society is huge. Drugs is indeed a very broad subject, but I am sure we will have to take this into our hands in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u30	Mr President, perhaps we should have organised a topical debate on this subject, because several questions follow. I know the brochure from Prof.Dr. Ronny Bruffaerts:The myths passed. The public health perspective as a guide to mental health reform. This approach is also central to the consultation of the Federal Office of Health in the transversal agreement committee, which is ongoing. That is where we are thinking together with the actors in the field about how we are going to roll out the EUR 112 million that we want to use for first-line psychological assistance. We are all starting from this public health perspective. I was just talking about the agreement I concluded with my fellow Members in the Communities, in my reply to Mrs Depoter. I believe that the protocol agreed on 2 December on strengthening the psychological provision of care has the potential to respond very well to this public health initiative. We are talking about an integrated offer with all actors, population-oriented and so on. So this is an important report for me. We'll take the obvious with us. There are also some very innovative ideas in it. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that group therapy reduces depressive symptoms and increases the quality of treatment, but not for a long time. The brochure highlights the particular attention needed for children, young people and young adults, because it does not reduce the unmet need, but also makes global health gains because these young people may become adults with mental disorders later on. The seriousness of this can be avoided by acting quickly. We really want to adapt the RIZIV Convention, which finances first-line psychological assistance and regulates the reimbursement, in the light of these insights. You are asking very specifically whether I should consult with you on this matter? Yes, it is. We are in permanent contact, and must also be in permanent contact, with the colleagues of the sub-governments. All mental health records are prepared by my staff in the Inter-Kabinette Working Group on Mental Health and then go to the Inter-Ministerial Conference for the final discussion. As far as I am concerned, the public health perspective is leading, and the method I apply is consultation with colleagues at the Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u31	Minister, I am pleased that you recognise the importance of mental health care. You have confirmed this several times in the past in response to questions from me. I am also pleased that you are doing so in consultation with the regions. You are very clear from the public health perspective, which is of course positive. I also think it is commendable that you wish to take on board the innovative proposals made by Zorgnet-Icuro and that attention is also paid to the mental health of children and young people. As you rightly point out, early detection may prevent larger problems later. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u32	Minister, at the end of February it was decided to repay the medicines Orkambi and Symkevi. This is extremely positive for patients, a qualitative step forward. These are very expensive medications that cost up to 170,000 euros per patient per year. In addition to these two medicines, the company Vertex has also launched another promising medicine, namely Kaftrio. This medicine was approved by the EEA at the end of August but is only available for patients in our country through compassionate use. However, in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark and Germany, the medicine is already being reimbursed. The problem would be that Vertex still hasn't filed a file on Kaftrio's repayment. The question therefore arises as to why the company did so in other European countries but not in Belgium. Do you think that Vertex's attitude is compatible with the law on non-discrimination and equal opportunities in the European Union? What do you think of Vertex's policy in relation to the reimbursement files? You said that about 600 patients will be helped with Orkambi and Symkevi. However, there are also patients waiting for Kaftrio. Did you talk to the producer about the Kaftrio file? What's the status? When a medicine is reimbursed, the government normally also receives information about the production cost of the medicine. Do you know the cost structure of the medicines Orkambi and Symkevi? How did you handle this file? How are you going to ensure that we do not pay too high prices for innovative medication?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u33	Mr President, Minister, at the end of February you announced that two expensive but vital medicines, Orkambi and Symkevi, will be effectively reimbursed by health insurance. That's made a lot of families and patients happy. It has brought relief, also with Stefan Joris of the Muco association. He said that the impact of these medicines on the disease and on the quality of life is so great that it is hoped that mucoc acid can evolve from a rare disease to a chronic disease. Has any specific timing been provided for the reimbursement of these two medicines? Perhaps I have missed that and have already been informed. What was the company's reaction? Do you hope for this breakthrough that Vertex will now also submit a refund dossier for the medicine Kaftrio to the Committee on Medication Medicines? This is a file that your administration has already requested from the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u34	Mr. President, Minister, to help patients with cystic fibrosis, some drugs are quite promising according to clinical results already identified. When asked in January on this subject, you have recently clarified the information on the current reimbursement procedure for Orkambi and Symkevi. This is a certain relief for these patients, as these two medicines will be reimbursed as of April 1. Both treatments will be fully reimbursed for eligible patients, representing more than 600 people in our country. However, there are still questions about this decision and these medicines. There is the question of Orkambi, which is limited to children under the age of 12. What opinion has the European Medicines Agency issued on this subject in relation to the reimbursement committee? The question arises of the age of the patients who will benefit from it, but also of the reimbursement of the Kaftrio. I have already asked you specifically about this. While this medicine is available in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark or Germany, the producing company had not introduced a procedure in Belgium following the 2020 European authorisation. Minister, what do you think of the company that does not introduce a procedure for this medicine in Belgium? Is it fair to say that Orkambi and Symkevi are less valuable medicines, to date, than Kaftrio, as some testimonies have told us? Why these first two and not the Kaftrio? With regard to Orkambi, why would this treatment be mainly reserved for children under 12 years of age? Have any studies informed you of different effects compared to adults? About the Kaftrio, where exactly are we in the process? No application was submitted by the company to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. What alternative measures can you or do you intend to take to address this situation? As you know, some patients have been waiting for concrete progress for years. Is an expansion of the reimbursement of salaries under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u35	The refund of Orkambi or Symkevi starts from April 1st. It is indeed good news for over 600 patients. Why will this treatment be mainly reserved for children under 12 years of age? In summary, both in clinical studies and in real-life analyses, Orkambi has, on average, similar efficacy but higher toxicity than Symkevi. In the two initial randomised clinical studies in homozygous patients for the F508del mutation and over 12 years of age, Orkambi mainly showed a positive effect on the exacerbation rate with a decrease of 39% (61% in hospitalizations and 56% in the use of intravenous antibiotics) and a slight improvement in lung function (2.8% absolute increase). Similar efficacy (2.4% absolute increase in lung function) has been shown in children aged 6 to 11 years and authorisation has been extended for treatment from 2 years on the basis of pharmacokinetic and safety studies with efficacy results supporting this extrapolation. In comparison, Symkevi also reduced the number of exacerbations (-35%) and resulted in an absolute increase in lung function by 4%. In terms of toxicity, side effects, mainly respiratory, are higher with Orkambi. Side effects of Orkambi increased with reduced lung function (less than 40% of normal value) and diabetes associated with cystic fibrosis. There were two age-related clinical presentations. In order of magnitude of this population, 14% of Belgian adults (not transplanted and all mutation profiles combined) have lung function less than 40% and 29% have diabetes. In addition, in longer studies, some people treated with Orkambi experience an increase in their blood pressure. These side effects have not been reported for Symkevi. The refund claim for Orkambi concerned only the 2-11 age group. The claim for reimbursement that was pending in parallel for the Symkevi concerned the population aged 12 and over. So this is the reason for this age line. As regards Kaftrio, or Trikafta in the United States, no refund dossier has been submitted by Vertex to date. As soon as the firm takes the steps to submit a file, this will follow the planned reimbursement process. You know what that is: thorough assessment by the CTG, taking into account various aspects, such as therapeutic value, importance in medical practice, price, budget and impact. The committee will then draw up an opinion on reimbursement, on which a decision will be based. I do not have any further information on this at the moment. However, we are waiting and ready for an application. I share the feeling of many committee members that it is absolutely necessary for a dossier to be submitted and that it is actually problematic that this should not happen. With regard to the introduction into other European countries, European legislation stipulates that reimbursement of medicinal products is a national competence, with each country applying different criteria that fit within the specific national social security systems. In addition, pharmaceutical companies have the opportunity to decide for themselves in which countries they wish to enter the market when. This is often part of the launch strategy of companies, which unfortunately leads to discrepancies between national reimbursement situations. Kaftrio is an example of this, but unfortunately not the only one. We try, among other things, to consult, cooperate and exchange information with other countries within the existing European framework through the BeNeLuxA Initiative. Mrs Merckx, you ask me what the real cost of producing these medicines is. I'm afraid I have to answer you briefly. We don't know them. This is generally an international discussion. We will examine possible measures to reduce the cost of innovative medicines when we discuss with the pharmaceutical industry the pharmaceutical pact announced in the government agreement. It is important that these measures are not considered individually, but are part of a global pharmaceutical policy. We must ensure that policies are implemented in parallel and coherent with other reforms. Pistes such as the reimbursement of a cluster of CFTR modulators, as is the case with certain cancer therapies, are worth investigating, not just for this class of medicines. The results of the horizon scanning, for which we have signed a tender in an international framework, together with the other partners of the International Horizon Scanning Initiative, and for which we expect to be able to sign the contract later this year, will certainly be useful. I agree that these are important and sensitive social debates. I am not making any very large statements about this right now, but it is a very important yard of this government for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u36	Minister, you say it yourself: it is rather strange that you do not have any more information about Kaftrio. If I understand correctly, it is the same company, Vertex, that is in the context of the reimbursement of Orkambi and Symkevi. You or your representatives have sat at the table with this firm to conclude the secret contract on the refund. Has the Kaftrio dossier not been discussed, because you yourself say that the fact that a refund dossier is submitted in some countries and not in others is part of a launch strategy? In other words, patients are played out against each other. One is going to save some patients and others aren't. This is how the price is increased and the blackmail continues. It's strange that you didn't ask for more information about that. I am also surprised to hear you say that real production costs are purely international matters, because normally, the company must also provide information if it is to submit a file for reimbursement. At least the pharmaceutical industry says that it must always provide information on what the real cost of production is. However, you are now saying that you decide on the refund, without any idea of the real cost of production. You want to deal with this differently in the future, but it is of course also important to make progress in concrete dossiers and, for example, to fight for greater transparency and to ask the right questions to the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u37	Mr Minister, the date of 1 April is clear. I didn't notice that. The case of Kaftrio is regrettable, but I'll also note what you say about the launch strategies. I can imagine this playing a part. We may regret that, but it is what it is. Hopefully there will be a light in the darkness for Kaftrio.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u38	Mr Minister, it is indeed a great step forward for our CFTR patients that they now have access to these CFTR modulators. That was absolutely necessary. The knot is also very late cut. That is why I cannot be entirely enthusiastic about your answer. You're saying Kaftrio didn't file an application. That's right. Proactive thinking is also very important for our patients. I have spoken to you a few times in this committee. Why don't you start paying back in cluster, so the cluster of the different CFTR modulators in a pay for performance? Here, very clear criteria will be agreed with the firm, you will consult with doctors on what pharmacodynamic results we should have. This way you can switch from one combination of molecules to another much faster. That also happens with certain cancer therapies. It could really make a big difference for our mucoc patients. The procedure is quite lengthy today. Even if the company makes that application, it will be waiting again and our patients will again not be the first in line for the refunds. You refer to the BeNeLuxA Initiative. That's all good and good, but we don't have that many success stories from that angle. Before we can really make the most of this, we will have to optimise the functioning of the negotiations on these innovative medicines. In any case, this reimbursement is a step in the right direction. I invite you to work on a proactive system so that we can respond to our patients more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u39	Minister, I hear your answers and your sensitivity and your desire to move forward for patients with cystic fibrosis. I understand the complexity for the authorities as well as for the administration. But I also hear that construction is crucial for this government. If good news is announced, it will remain Kaftrio's black spot. An attempt should be made to put additional pressure in view of the results of this medicine and to initiate alternative approaches, if necessary. I hope that you will be able to move forward quickly together with other European countries - you were talking about BeNeLuxA. I encourage you to activate all this and harden the tone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u40	Minister, after the transfer of powers to the regions, transitional measures were introduced for interventions in the medical costs of vulnerable patients. The period of these transitional measures is now over. Minister, what is your department's vision? How will you ensure that vulnerable patients do not need to contribute unnecessarily personally to health costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u41	Mrs Depoorter, a lasting arrangement to continue to take account of the costs of services transferred to the Communities for the purposes of applying the federal financial accessibility measures requires, in principle, the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Communities. At present, no such agreement has been concluded for the period after 2019. The Federal Council of Ministers of 22 November 2019 proposed a solution for the maximum invoice, which is to provide for the exchange of information between the federal government and the Communities, allowing the Communities to establish a compensation mechanism for the insured persons concerned with a stay in a rehabilitation institution or with personal shares in transferred rehabilitation agreements. In the course of 2020, contacts took place between the RIZIV and the Communities' health administrations with a view to developing the proposed solution and the principles of cost-sharing. An inter-federal MAF counter will be provided from 2020. The personal shares for federal benefits and the personal shares transferred to the Communities are merged in order to ensure continuity in the granting of rights for patients. The proposed solution will still be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference with a view to validating the operational impact and an agreement on the allocation of costs and the financial statement. The RIZIV will shortly organise a consultation on the status of chronically ill people and the flat-rate grant for chronically ill persons, which should also result in draft agreements to be proposed to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Pending this, expenditure on benefits transferred to the Communities shall be taken into account further for the purposes of the federal measures. For me, it is important to safeguard the general standstill principle on social rights. This states that the transfer of powers should not have a negative impact on rightholders and that the level of social rights should be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u42	Mr President, the most important thing, of course, is that this should not have any negative consequences for our patients. In any case, I urge you to provide a sustainable response. After all, the uncertainty weighs. The personal share of health care has not increased in percentage terms but in total for the patient, and just vulnerable families sometimes find it very difficult to bear the cost of their own share of health care. I trust that the government will take the matter to heart and give a quick answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, the issue is important. On February 24, 2020, I was already questioning Ms De Block, then Minister of Health, about the disastrous consequences of INAMI's choice not to recognize the CHC centre as a reference centre for cystic fibrosis. Today, it must be noted that the distress screams of many of the parents and patients I echoed were not heard. Only the center of the Citadel is now recognized in Wallonia. This decision is terrible. Today, there are six centres in eight locations in Flanders and Brussels, with only one centre in Wallonia. The two centres are indeed close to each other. They're both in Liège. Nevertheless, this decision leads the patient to have to make a horrible choice: to give up the support set up at the CHC or to assume the financial continuity of the care. The issue is urgent because on March 31st, CHC physicians will no longer be included as prescribers on the CHR convention of the Citadelle. We're going straight into the wall! It would be reasonable, responsible and humane to keep the model as it was put in place with CHR accreditation, an activity on the CHC site and synergies. Minister, in order to improve the quality of life of patients, do you not think that a new geographical distribution should be considered? In order to maintain a certain quality of life for these patients, do you not think it would be appropriate to reconsider CHC accreditation? I ask you these questions in particular on behalf of Enoah, Julie, Éline, Elodie and Camille.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u44	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I understand that you are raising this issue with some urgency. I know that there have been reactions and demonstrations which stress that this is a delicate and difficult issue. First of all, I want to confirm that the convention for the management of patients with cystic fibrosis has long been concluded with seven reference centres in Belgium: three hospitals in Brussels, three hospitals in Flanders and one hospital in Wallonia, the CHR of the Citadelle in Liège. Taking into account the sites on which the activities under the CF convention were also proposed to date, the number of sites on the Francophone side (including QR) is equal to the number of sites on the Dutch-speaking side, namely five sites on each side. To answer your first question as to whether we believe that a new geographical distribution of the centres of reference for cystic fibrosis should be considered, we believe that the current distribution of the centres of reference in Belgium makes it possible to provide sufficient accessibility for patients with cystic fibrosis, both on the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking sides of the country. It should also be noted that, in most cases, it is not necessary for patients to visit the referral centre on a daily basis to receive care. Part of the care and accompaniment may be provided to the closest to their home. Therefore, for most patients, a relatively small number of contacts with a referral centre per year is sufficient. In addition, based on the registration data from Sciensano's 2018 report, it should be noted that existing reference centres manage to capture patients who do not live close to a referral centre. Moreover, these data do not give the impression that certain regions would not be reached. That's the opposite! It is clear that geographical distribution should be considered as one of the important elements to be taken into account, but it also seems to us essential to be able to guarantee our patients with cystic fibrosis sufficient expertise and the qualities of a medical and paramedical team. This can only be done by concentrating the expertise in the hands of a few reference centres, especially in view of the small number of patients with this rare hereditary disease in Belgium. These are 1,320 patients. I would also like to point out that quality monitoring in fibrosis reference centres has been in place for many years in collaboration with Sciensano. To answer your second question as to whether we think it would be appropriate to reconsider the accreditation of CHC, I will reply that since there is already a reference centre for the management of patients with cystic fibrosis in the Liège region, it is not appropriate to conclude an additional agreement with another Liège centre. Nor would this fundamentally improve the geographical accessibility of multidisciplinary care and patient support. In addition, the conclusion of an additional convention with a reference centre would run counter to the various principles set out in the Belgian Plan for Rare Diseases launched in December 2013 concerning, in particular, the need to concentrate expertise. The conclusion of the convention for the management of patients with cystic fibrosis with CHC in Liège would also mean that such an agreement would then be concluded with a hospital without a rare disease function or a human genetics centre. Moreover, this would run counter to the policy followed since the Belgian Plan for Rare Diseases was put in place. The failure of the CHC, after 31 March, to follow patients under the agreement concluded with CHR de la Citadelle and INAMI is, unfortunately, mainly the result of problems of collaboration between the two hospitals. It is in this context that the CHR of the Citadelle has already decided, in the first weeks of 2020, to stop this collaboration started in 2002. In this case, Mr. Rigot, this is no longer really my responsibility. Indeed, I cannot force a collaboration. I realized the problem, but it's not up to me to deal with it. INAMI had initiated a mediation, following which the CHC was still able to continue its activities temporarily under the agreement with the CHR of the Citadelle, pending the installation of a single and integrated reference centre on its site, scheduled for 1 April. However, since the negotiations between the two hospitals undertaken for this purpose could not be concluded, their limited collaboration will end on 31 March. So I understand the resentment that patients and families feel and that you testify to. However, this is a problem of collaboration between hospitals that I cannot solve by my own means. Similarly, it does not seem to me to be possible to review the distribution of reference centres in order to remedy them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic399x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand your reasoning. Despite your ministerial power, it is, in any case, an area in which you cannot act. I hear it well, but I regret it on behalf of the patients and their families who will suffer the consequences. Therefore, I hope that the situation will improve in these two high-quality hospital institutions. Today, unfortunately, the loser is the patient. You know even better than I do, the patient needs the trust and support of the one who has been guiding him for years in his suffering, and there, unfortunately, he will lose him. I understand your position. I regret it, of course. I'm sorry, but I know you went to the limit of what you could do. I hope that common sense will come back and that patients can be cared for with a good quality of care.
