ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u1	Question No 55016229C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u2	Ms Vanrobaeys, the starting note for social dialogue, which the federal government delivered to the Group of Ten on 13 April 2021, included only a proposal to distribute the welfare envelope for the workers' system. It did not mention a distribution proposal for the self-employed scheme, but it did mention the amount available in the envelope for that scheme. In the meantime, the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed, the ABC, has concluded negotiations on the distribution of the welfare envelope 2021-2022 in the self-employed system. This work could not be completed until there was more clarity about the agreement reached for the workers' system. Certain benefits in the self-employed system are linked to amounts in the employed system, including those of the minimum pensions. In addition, all the necessary estimates had to be available. The latest estimate in that respect from the Federal Pension Service was received on Wednesday 21 April 2021. The ABC issued its opinion on the distribution of the welfare envelope 2021-2022 in the self-employed system on 30 April 2021. As far as possible, the proposal to distribute the welfare envelope for the self-employed system takes into account the parallels between the employed and self-employed systems. This is the case, among other things, of the relationship between the amounts of the minimum pension in the two schemes and the desire to maintain the same level of minimum protection in both schemes. However, a full analogy with the proposals put forward for the workers' system in the framework of the welfare envelope 2021-2022 was not feasible in budgetary terms, as it would result in an overrun of the envelope available for the self-employed system. In practical terms, the agreement in question follows the minimum levels of the worker's scheme in terms of minimum pensions, plus 2%, and in terms of incapacity for work, plus 2% and plus 2.5 % with family burden. In addition, the social partners have taken specific measures to raise proportional pensions from 1 July 2021. The agreement also provides for an increase of 2% in the right of bridging, including the right to bridge the crisis and the family care allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u3	There are indeed parallels between minimum pensions and invalidity benefits. It is important that they are preserved. I naturally welcome the opinion of the general management committee. It will now be necessary to implement this advice as soon as possible, so that these increases take place at the scheduled times and also the self-employed can count on a welfare adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u4	Mr Minister, since the start of the corona crisis, the self-employed in our country, whose case has been closed, have been able to rely on the single and double right of bridging. That replacement income should help them keep their heads above water at this difficult time. How many people have already applied, both for the single and for the double bridging right? How many applications were actually approved? How much money has been transferred since the start of the crisis under the single and double bridge law? At the same time, it appears that a number of self-employed people are creative in dealing with the corona aid and commit fraud in order to be able, unjustly, to collect aid. This seems to be happening at different levels and concerns different types of aid. Do you know, Minister, whether the single or double right of bridging is being abused? Are controls carried out on this? If so, how exactly is checks carried out? How many cases of abuse of the right of bridging have already been identified? If abuse is found, I hope that this will not only lead to the recovery of the money, but that those who have deliberately abused it will be severely punished. Our expenditures are already enormous. We absolutely must not allow this to be abused. Mr Minister, are fines imposed when there is a finding of abuse of the double bridging right? How many fines has this led to? What exactly are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u5	Mrs Houtmeyers, since the beginning of the crisis and until February 2021, nearly 2.5 million payments of bridging rights have been granted, of which more than 600,000 times the double bridging right and more than 1.8 million times the single bridge right. This represents a total amount of more than EUR 4.3 billion, of which more than EUR 1.7 billion for the double bridge law and more than EUR 2.5 billion for the single bridge law. I can get you a table with the exact figures. Social insurance funds shall be responsible for recovery in the event of undue payment. In 2020, they recovered more than EUR 125 million, linked to the recovery of the temporary crisis measures related to the bridging right. Since its introduction, the granting of the bridging measures has been the subject of three control lines. The first-line control was carried out by the social insurance funds, the second-line control by the audit of the funds and the third-line control by the RSVZ (ECL) Directorate for Fair Competition. Explaining the exact course of these checks would take too long. I do have a written explanation that I can give you. Where there is a suspicion of fraud, an investigation shall be carried out by the RSVZ, the Executive Board of the ECL. In general, two types of fraud, abuse or anomalies were identified. Firstly, there were cases specifically linked to the granting of the crisis measures, for example the fact that they were fictitiously self-employed without ever having engaged in an independent activity. The only aim was to benefit from the crisis measures. Furthermore, the use of a false identity in the context of an application for the granting of the crisis measures could also be considered. Secondly, there were also more classic abuses discovered following an application for the granting of the crisis measure, e.g. persons who had worked without being affiliated and who joined in to receive the benefit during the corona crisis. The cases of abuse and fraud are, of course, sanctioned. Depending on the situation, the social insurance fund concerned shall recover the temporary right to bridge the crisis, propose a regularisation of the situation or impose an administrative penalty. Where the situation so requires, the file shall be forwarded to the judiciary, resulting in criminal sanctions. Since the beginning of the crisis and until 31 March 2021, Executive Board ECL 5.797 has opened investigations into the bridging measures. It has already closed 2,204, of which 666 were followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. The right of bridging was absolutely a good measure, which allowed a lot of companies and people to keep their heads above water. You say that abuse is sanctioned and that there is a recovery. There could be a criminal sanction. However, I have not heard what this criminal sanction can be. Hopefully it's not just about recovering the money. Of course, it would be a shame for people or companies to explicitly seek financial gain from this corona crisis, at the expense of people who absolutely do need it and who absolutely do mean it well. Hopefully they will be severely sanctioned. I would like to receive some additional information from you, along with the information you would also provide me further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u7	Minister, a self-employed person working in a compulsory closed sector is eligible for the dual right of bridging. Activities such as click&collect, takeaway or night shops do not prevent the granting of this double financial benefit, as does the taking of reservations, the carrying out of voluntary activities under the Law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, the provision of an online video, for example a course, and the organisation of customer loyalty actions. In practice, this means that anyone who teaches online or has online contact with customers, for example, is not entitled to the double premium, but if those lessons are received and forwarded in advance. That is very peculiar and illogical. Moreover, it appears that the measure is applied in different ways by the different social insurance funds. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Why is the organisation of digital live contact moments treated in a different way than offering an online video when awarding the dual bridging right? Can they be levelled? How will you ensure that the various social insurance funds interpret and apply this measure in the same way? If not, there is discrimination: one is entitled to a double right of bridging and the other is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u8	Mrs Lanjri, my administration is regularly asked what activities, outside of takeaway and click&collect, a self-employed person may still exercise when he or she enjoys the double right of bridging. In the question you ask me, a distinction must be made between two situations. First of all, there is the live online teaching. Although this is done remotely, it is clearly an undeniable continuation of the existing self-employed activity. As a result, this is indeed an obstacle to the granting of double financial benefits. Secondly, you refer to the provision of pre-made films. This is another practice, which is not an obstacle to the granting of the double bridging right. As far as the second point of your question is concerned, I naturally agree with you that it cannot be the intention of the various social insurance funds to apply the rules differently. In order to ensure uniform application of the rules, social insurance funds are instructed to ask such questions through a specially developed Q&A space on the pyramid platform of my administration. In this way, all social insurance funds are always aware of all the questions and answers asked and answered in connection with the social status. When my administrations consider that a certain interpretation should be brought to the attention of the social insurance funds, this is done through a specific pyramid communication in the form of so-called important messages. An important message of this kind was published on 11 February 2021, which explicitly sets out the example of offering online videos versus live streaming sessions. In addition, this message also provided an overview of other activities that do not prevent the granting of the bridging right. In this context, should you have any specific information that certain social insurance funds are wrongly applying the rules, I suggest that you provide me with this information so that my services can investigate this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u9	Minister, you agree with me that there should certainly not be a different interpretation given by the social secretariats. You're working on communication. In itself, that's good. But your answer to the fundamental question that a lesson that is recorded and broadcast still gives the right to a bridging right and the other one is not, I still find very bizarre. Or did I misunderstand? In my view, there's really no difference. Or is it a way of circumventing the legislation to get a right of bridging after all? Let me give you an example. I have a daughter in college. Her teachers teach online, of course. They are not technically unemployed, they continue to teach. There are teachers who teach live as well as others who teach one group live and are recorded, who get a right of bridging, but not the other. That can't be the intention. Can you tell me whether it is true that you can get a refund for a recorded lesson? I think that's weird. Either it does not apply to either, that seems to me correct, but then one should not say that it is possible for a recorded lesson. Then everybody's gonna take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u10	I understand Mrs Lanjri's question. This may seem a little strange, but you had to put a limit. In other words, a teacher who has recorded his courses and broadcasts them for a period of time is simply broadcasting pre-recorded courses. But if he gives them live, it's considered to be a different situation. It is true that this may be a question. It is also considered that it should not be recorded three minutes before. These are long-standing registered courses. I am aware that this may be a question, but it is this interpretation that is made. I invite Mrs Lanjri to inform me of the situations on the ground so that she can make any adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u11	Thank you, Minister. I do not think this is the right course of action. This needs to be reviewed and I hope you will do so, because this leads to abuses. I'll get you some more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u12	Madam President, Minister, yesterday the issue of my question was already covered in the newspaper. We have also obtained information from the Pension Office through the discussions in committee. I myself have been informed before and regularly pass on information to self-employed people who ask me questions. When self-employed persons are in a difficult financial situation and apply for a RSZ exemption, that period of RSZ exemption is not included in the pension. The Pensions Ombudsdienst refers to this as discriminatory compared to employees, for example, who are treated as temporary unemployment benefits for the pension. Especially in the current corona period, more self-employed people may have benefited from this scheme, because of the difficult situation they were in. There were forced closures and now many self-employed people can only work under a variety of security measures. This reduces their profits, so some of them have to work under very precarious conditions. The Pension Office has made recommendations to address the problem. The current situation is exceptional, as self-employed people were forced to close down. Currently, for example, café bosses are restricted, as they are only allowed to keep their terrace open. Of course, all these health measures apply; that is not the problem. Minister, how will you respond to the demand of the Pension Office, especially in this period, but also in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u13	Madam President, Ms Vanrobaeys, from March 2020 to the end of April 2021, 83.191 self-employed persons applied for and obtained an exemption from contributions for at least one quarter following the corona crisis. With regard to the position of the Pension Office, I can say the following. Indeed, in the context of the report of the College of Ombudsmen for Pensions of 2020, the Ombudsmen raised questions about the equality between an independent person who enjoys the right to bridge through the measure taken in the fight against the coronavirus and who has to continue to pay his social contributions or when applying for the exemption, no longer has to pay social contributions, but also does not build up pension rights, and a wage-earners who were placed on temporary unemployment and who continue to build up pension rights. The Ombudsdienst based its reasoning on a 2010 ruling of Hoei's Labour Court. It is true that the self-employed do not build up pension rights for the quarters for which they have applied for exemption. However, they shall retain their rights to other benefits, in particular sickness insurance. In addition, there is the possibility of regularising the exempted quarters at a later date within five years with a redemption premium. The granting of pension rights for all exempted periods could open the door to abuse of this procedure and create high financial costs for the self-employed system. Moreover, we must bear in mind that this proposal could make it easier for the self-employed to apply for an exemption. In this way, contributions would be reduced and more pensions would be granted in the longer term. We cannot afford that budget. Moreover, such a measure entails risks of discrimination. One self-employed person would be obliged to pay contributions to obtain a pension, while the other could obtain pension rights without any obligation to pay contributions for some quarters. Moreover, if we were merely to grant equivalence for the exempted periods following the corona crisis, that would create an unequal situation with regard to the self-employed who would have applied for an exemption in circumstances other than those resulting from the pandemic. Their situation is similar, however, namely a financially difficult situation. The issue of the granting of pension rights to self-employed persons for the period for which an exemption from contributions was granted needs to be examined in depth, both with regard to possible discrimination and on the basis of the budgetary priorities set out in the Staff Regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u14	Yesterday the further discussion with the Pension Office took place. According to the service, the period for the pension does count if two quarters are regularised. My first call is therefore next. I would ask you to launch an information campaign on this so that self-employed people know very well that there is no impact on pensions if, when applying for an exemption afterwards, those two quarters are regularised within five years. It is not just about the amount but also about the time of early retirement. Perhaps people are not aware of this now, but at the moment when retirement age approaches, they may regret their current decision. If they have all the information, they can make a conscious choice. As far as equality and discrimination are concerned, I think there is indeed a difference. However, I also have an eye and an understanding of the comments you have made. I myself have received many questions from the self-employed, to whom I have all passed on what their options were, but also what the consequences of certain choices were. I have also heard a lot of self-employed people saying that, if that were the impact on their pension, they would make every effort to pay. They have double-plowed and twisted in all corners to pay the RSZ contribution anyway, so there was no effect on the pension. If we change that now, it is difficult for those self-employed who have paid their RSZ contribution. However, I still believe that there is a difference with the current corona period, in which a number of government measures have forced people to close their cases. Yesterday, in the discussion with Minister Lalieux, a call for tenders was launched to investigate how we can strengthen solidarity within the self-employed system. In this respect, I would like to ask and suggest that one of the elements included in the investigation is the way in which these matters can be dealt with, so that they do not have an impact due to the corona crisis. However, I also understand that when it is simply a difficult situation in general and we want to promote entrepreneurship, people must be allowed to fail sometimes, but to get up again afterwards. That should be taken into account and examined thoroughly in order to see how we can cope with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u15	Minister, the self-employed status is being abused by some foreigners in order to obtain a residence permit in order to benefit from our extensive social system afterwards. You know the problem. From an answer to an earlier question from my colleague Ellen Samyn, we can see that the number of checks and investigations started on false self-employment is falling sharply: from 684 investigations in 2017 to 393 investigations in 2019. The number of removals of self-employed persons by the AFA service is also falling sharply. If there were 990 in 2017, the deletions have now fallen to 201 in 2019. It appears that 75% of cases concern persons of Romanian origin. In addition to the persons of Bulgarian origin, the other nationalities are negligible. Especially in the Romanians there is clearly a problem. The large percentage, about three quarters of all deletions, points to an organised system of abuse. How do you explain the strongly decreasing number of investigations into this fraud? What will you do to act proactively for Romanians and Bulgarians, because they have apparently set in motion a fraud mechanism in order to abuse our social security system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u16	Mr Verreyt, the fight against social fraud is essential to me. As you know, social fraud is evolving and inspection services are constantly adapting. As far as investigations into bogus self-employment are concerned, investigations into bogus self-employment take time. Therefore, the RSVZ seeks to conduct its investigations more and more specifically, including on the basis of its experience in that matter. For example, this led to a closer cooperation with the RSZ in November 2018, the RSVZ and the RSZ concluded a cooperation protocol in the fight against bogus statutes or the designation, in March 2018, of an inspector who is fully committed to this issue. The number of deletions due to fictitious connections is indeed decreasing. The number of files on fictitious connections is enormous. It is not easy to detect cases of fraud from the mass of incoming files. The RSVZ has currently set up a procedure to better identify and identify potential fraud cases. It is suspected that the phenomenon is falling, thanks to the procedures set up. The new procedure will allow that point to be confirmed. The results of the studies shall be regularly monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u17	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The fight against social fraud is a cornerstone of our social security. If we do not detect this fraud, then we will undermine our own social security, that of the workers, and certainly that of the self-employed. I hear you talking about focus and cooperation between multiple services. I welcome both. However, if we start fewer investigations for the mass of potential cases, and therefore get fewer deletions and sanctions, it may be because there are fewer potential fraud cases, but it may also be the result of the lower number of investigations. We have to rule out the latter. We cannot allow our social system to be undermined by fraud files. We must therefore continue the investigations consistently and perhaps more targeted, towards the Romanians and Bulgarians, in order to rule that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u18	When paying the bridging right, a group of self-employed persons was excluded, namely retired self-employed persons. It was apparently assumed that this right of bridging did not belong to them, because they were also paid a pension in addition to their self-employed activity. Many complaints from this group show that they have had a very hard time in the last year. We are talking about the group of pensioners who still carry out an independent activity, but below the reference income remain a main occupation. That small additional income from their self-employment helps them to supplement their low pension. In fact, they're forced to survive on their own. Their fixed costs as self-employed persons, such as rent, taxes and the like, naturally continued to go through and in that they are no different from the other self-employed persons. They are thus driven towards the poverty line. Are you aware of this problem? Will you still take measures to meet this forgotten group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u19	Mr Verreyt, I am very much aware of the fact that a large proportion of the self-employed, including retired self-employed, suffer from this pandemic. For this reason, the staff scope of the bridging right was extended to include retired self-employed persons. This in no way excluded that category from the temporary crisis measures for bridging rights. The active pensioners whose statutory provisional contributions were calculated on a reference income higher than EUR 6.996.89 were indeed eligible for half the financial benefits in 2020 amounting to EUR 645.85 per month, without family burden, or EUR 807.5 per month with family burden. They could combine that benefit with their pension, up to a maximum of EUR 1,614,10 per month. The ratio of that cumulative ceiling lies in the subsidiary nature of the bridging right. In addition, self-employed persons who have reached the statutory retirement age but have not taken up their pension and paid provisional contributions such as a self-employed person in main occupation were eligible for the full amount of the temporary crisis measure for bridge law. They were also entitled to the temporary measures for bridging rights in support of the restart. Retired self-employed persons were not excluded from the double financial benefit from October if they belonged to a compulsory closed sector or were dependent on those sectors. From 2021 onwards, all pensioners, irrespective of the sector in which they operate and in so far as their provisional contributions are calculated on a reference income higher than EUR 7 021,29, can claim half the financial benefits under the temporary crisis measures. For this purpose, they should be able to demonstrate a turnover decrease of 40% compared to the same months in 2019. Furthermore, from 2021 onwards, from January for the single benefit and from February for the double benefit, the cumulative ceiling was amended from a flat-rate amount of EUR 1,614,10 to the amount of the financial benefit foreseen under the temporary crisis measure on the bridging right. A self-employed person who, for example, is active in the hospitality sector will thus be entitled from February to the double financial benefit provided for, after deduction of his pension amount. In addition, retired self-employed persons may also benefit from a temporary crisis benefit for the period during which they are required to respect compulsory quarantine, provided that the cumulative ceiling is applied. I come to your second question. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the retired self-employed are indeed eligible for the temporary crisis measures on the right of bridging. I would also point out that, in addition to the financial benefits, the retired self-employed can also benefit from the other aid measures provided for. They could, inter alia, apply for exemption from social contributions and regularisation contributions through a simplified form and request a postponement of payment or a reduction of their provisional social contributions. Finally, I would like to point out that the right of bridging is a flat-rate replacement income from social security. Its purpose is to guarantee a means of subsistence. It is not intended to compensate for loss of revenue or turnover, which falls within the competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer with many figures. Since complaints and questions continue to come from that target group, I think that this is primarily and partly a communication problem, on which we can make much more efforts. The target group of social secretariats are primarily self-employed with staff and so on. They're over-questioned, too. Many social secretariats are very difficult to reach today, certainly by telephone. For this group of retired self-employed people, it is of course often a supplement to their pension. Their pension is not that big, and we have talked about this a few times in this committee. It's kind of like a vacation job for students or a side job for an employee, which is a limited supplement to the pension with several hundred euro's income per month. They are, of course, still very often covered by the reference income, which is necessary for all kinds of support measures. On the one hand, it is a communication problem and on the other hand it is a group with no full-time income, which does not have a main occupation of an independent business. It's more about a form of back-up or a little extra-earning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u21	Question No 55017608C by Mrs Moscufo is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u22	Madam President, Minister, the calculation of the pensions of self-employed persons who remain active after the retirement age remains very unfair to them. By the way, we have already talked about it. After the retirement age, a self-employed person, notwithstanding paying contributions to the RSVZ, shall not build up any additional rights unless he or she has not worked for 45 years and in the meantime does not take up the pension. This is not fair, especially to those who had a dual career, for example as an employee and at the same time as self-employed contributions. Work must be waged and must lead to the building of rights. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, how many people who have reached retirement age do not take up their pensions and are still self-employed? Secondly, will you, together with your fellow Minister for Pensions, Lalieux, abolish the calculation of pensions at 45 years, so that a self-employed person can build up an additional pension even after 45 years of work, and thus also contributions to social security? Thirdly, do you see any possibility of having a self-employed person who is still working after retirement to build up an additional pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u23	Madam President, Mr Verreyt, according to the provisional quarterly figures, 17,370 self-employed persons were active on 31 March 2021 who do not receive any pension after reaching retirement age, either a retirement and survivor's pension or a pension after divorce. It's about 9,729 men and 7,641 women. As far as capping is concerned, the principle of unity of career, which originally provided for the capping of homogeneous or mixed careers to 45 career years, has already been relaxed by my predecessor. This relaxation was achieved by the Law of 5 December 2017 amending several provisions relating to the pension scheme for employed and self-employed persons, as regards the principle of the unity of career and the early retirement pension. That law provides that, for the pensions which were actually and for the first time entered into on 1 January 2019 at the earliest, the self-employed person, despite the fact that he or she already has a full career of forty-five years, can continue to work and build up pension rights. The calculation shall consider exactly when a full career of 45 years or 14,040 full-time daily equivalents is achieved. If you continue to work after that 14,040th day, you can still build up pension rights as a selfemployed person for that period, provided that contributions are paid at least equal to the minimum contributions for a selfemployed person in the main occupation. It is therefore already possible today to build pension rights after the retirement age. However, the complete abolition of the principle of unity of careers is not included in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic474x.u24	Minister, 17,300 self-employed people do not benefit from a pension, but continue to work after their retirement age. That is a large number, especially since a large proportion of these people continue to contribute to the social security of self-employed people, without building up too many rights. I'm glad there are a number of possibilities. I regret, however, that the other issues I asked for are not included in the coalition agreement. That is, of course, not only your own responsibility, but that of the whole team of purple-green. In the course of the legislative term, we will make a number of proposals to change that, perhaps through Parliament.
