ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u1	Madam President, Minister, you may be aware of this, but I would like to summarize the facts. The Justice Department gives a negative opinion on the launch of the Brussels Grand Mosque. That mosque was withdrawn from Saudi Arabia's radicalizing influence last year, but the new leaders are too close to Morocco and are now even accused of espionage. This can of course have consequences far beyond the Cinquantenaire Park. The Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 unanimously decided that something had to change about the management of that Great Mosque, the symbol of Islam in Belgium. It was funded for decades by Saudi Arabia, thereby promoting a Salafist, anti-European doctrine. In April last year, the administration of the mosque was taken over by the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, which, although not undisputed, acts as the official representation of the Muslims in Belgium. This Executive constituted a temporary board pending the file of recognition submitted by the specially founded Association de gestion de la Grande Mosquée de Bruxelles. This association is led by Salah Echallaoui, former Chairman of the Executive. However, the Justice Department is today delivering a negative opinion on the recognition file. The negative opinion is based on the findings of the State Security and was unanimously endorsed by the other security services. According to the security services, Saudi Arabia's grip on the Great Mosque would have replaced a new Moroccan grip. The interference goes so far as to say that there is espionage, according to the security services and according to the Justice Department. The Security of the State points out three employees, including one director, with the finger as agents of the Moroccan intelligence services. The fact that there are members of the Board of Directors from other sources does not change that. Most of the 400 to 2,000 permanent visitors to the mosque have Moroccan roots. Apparently, he likes to keep an eye on the regime in Rabat. Because of the negative opinion, the recognition procedure of the Great Mosque has now been suspended. That would not change as long as Moroccan spies are given a role in management. One of the Moroccan agents is also on the board of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium and in the non-profit organisation founded in his lap to set up a training course for imams. That hate preachers are often taken from abroad today, the 2016 terrorist investigation committee was also a thorn in the eye. From the somewhat naive belief that it is possible to create a Belgian Islam, it was agreed to train imams in Belgium. The association Académie de formation et de recherche en études Islamicques (AFOR) already received the generous sum of 192,000 euros in grants. Of course, as anyone could expect, that money didn't return. Of the 11 students, seven of them have already left. While the training should ensure independence, it is not only Morocco but Turkey that determines interference: the Vice-President also leads the Belgian branch of Diyanet, the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs. As the Flemish Interest has been warning for more than forty years, it appears once again that the approach to subsidising and facilitating Islam has completely failed. This approach did not increase the influence of Belgium in Islam, but increased the influence of Islamic countries in Belgium. That's the bottomline. The great news of the negative advice of Justice is not that the Great Mosque still retains a negative reputation, but rather that the Muslim executive, the official representative of the Muslims in Belgium, has spies in its ranks. The Muslim executive does not serve the interests of Belgium, as the government repeatedly claimed, but rather the interests of foreign Islamic powers such as Morocco, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Firstly, how can you guarantee, Minister, that there will be no new foreign interference or even espionage when the spies known today are out working? Secondly, will you call for a definitive end to the facilitation and subsidising of organisations that appear to serve the interests of foreign Islamic powers, in particular the Great Mosque, the Muslim executive and the network of Diyanet Mosques? Thirdly, do you intend to screen more widely all Islamic organisations in our country to see if the expectation is true that foreign interference and even espionage will also occur in these organisations? Finally, have you thought about a new version of the building that was built in 1879, converted in 1978 and put into use as a mosque until 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u2	Mr Minister, I would also like to offer my very best wishes to the committee for a nice 2021 and a lot of joy at work. The previous speaker had a very copious introduction, which gives me the opportunity to ask more questions within my time frame. That means I'm skipping my introduction and suddenly going to the questions addressed to Minister Van Quickenborne. Do you consider it reasonable, Minister, for the sake of the security of our citizens, that there were almost twelve full months between the application of the Great Mosque and your ultimately negative advice on recognition? In March 2020 we were indeed confronted with the corona crisis, but could that really be why it took so much time? Why did the security services get the triple of the time they normally had to give you advice? Wouldn't it have been better if the ball had been played shorter? Could it be that due to the extended period of time there were more security risks for our population or security services? In an interview in De Morning, you referred to a communication from our intelligence services that Morocco is thus trying to turn Belgian Muslims into his hands. Are you discussing this with the Foreign Minister, who should certainly respond by diplomatic means? What actions have been taken and what results have been achieved in this respect? To what extent do you consider it wise to allow the work of the Great Mosque to take place without prejudice? Are their work being monitored? If so, in what way? What next steps have been taken following your negative advice, both by the Great Mosque and by you? You pronounced that the Great Mosque had to clean up before a new or modified application could be submitted. You also said you wanted to initiate the procedure to renew all the organs of the executive. To what extent have you already worked on this? Has the procedure started? What exactly does this procedure entail? How will it ensure that the story is not exploited by extremists or parties who may abuse it? Clarity about the fact that there are also very many Muslims living in the country who profess a faith that can be in line with our values and standards is indeed of prime importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u3	Minister, I am not going to ignore an introduction, but it will not have the same angle of attack: I will remind you of another past. The management of the Great Mosque in Brussels caused a scandal during the work of the Commission of Inquiry of which I was a member. Indeed, for the members of this commission, learning how the management of the Great Mosque was carried out was seen as a real coup de masculine. An extremely precise recommendation was made by the committee, and important measures were indeed decided by the then government. Clear requirements, and even a deadline – which is rarer in politics – have been set out. A 2015 State Security note had already highlighted sermons and courses that promoted Salafism and encouraged a high degree of radicalization, which was also violent. In March 2018, the government broke the agreement with the World Islamic League, which, as you know, was organizing the concession of the Great Mosque in Brussels. A new structure involving the Belgian Muslim Executive and a local body was then to be established and an application for recognition was to be submitted. In accordance with the Royal Decree, this procedure was launched a year and a half ago. According to the media, the findings of the competent services and the Sûreté four years later are simply alarming. It seems that "the Islam put forward by the place of worship would not yet be in line with Belgian society". It is almost an understatement, but it is in any case unacceptable. You recently stated that the governing bodies of the Belgian Muslim Executive should have been renewed, which should have been done since April last year. Your statements then triggered a cascade of reactions. To quote: "The minister's remarks openly violate freedom of worship, the principle of neutrality and the principle of separation of the Church and the State. We regard this speech as a manifest interference in the affairs of Islamic worship." These were the words of the President of the Muslim Executive of Belgium. Minister, when I read these comments, I wonder what action we have taken since 2016 and what we have done since 2018 at the end of the hearing of the representative of the Great Mosque in the Attentats Commission. We saw that three governing members had dissociated themselves from this statement, while the Vice-President had resigned while indicating that he had been under pressure in his work while developing anti-radicalization projects and collaborating in the development of training for imams. He was, I believe, the head of the Academy of Training and Research in Islamic Studies. Moreover, we know where we are in the formation of imams that was established in 2019 in our country. Mr Minister, you are talking about "disorder"; I am talking about "honest": a shame for our country and for the Muslims of Belgium. What about the new ASBL Manager, its composition and the analysis delivered by the relevant federal departments? Who is the holder of the application for recognition? What are the specific deficiencies identified in the application? Since it is essential for Parliament to be aware of the new foreign interferences that have been noted, I would like you to name them. What about Morocco and Turkey? Has a report been issued by the regional authorities, having regard to their respective competences in this matter? Considering the findings of the State Security and the refusal of recognition, what do you expect in terms of the concession? Has a decision already been made, in accordance with the Royal Decree? Finally, Mr Minister, what initiatives have you taken with the Belgian Muslim Executive and the Department of the Interior to elucidate this strange situation and to demand respect for the rules of law and public security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I did yesterday, I wish to express my best wishes to the Members I have not yet met. Mr Van Langenhove, a large part of your question is almost a literal repetition of an article on the issue that appeared in Het Laatste Nieuws on 4 December 2020. So you obviously didn't eat cheese from copyright. Nevertheless, I will answer your questions. Firstly, it is clear that such interference and espionage are not admissible. It is equally clear to me that I will not allow the file to be abused by certain groups or persons, such as yourself, to stigmatise the entire Muslim community in our country. On the contrary, by putting certain problems under the mat and not naming them, I would not serve the Muslims in our country. espionage and interference are part of the legal tasks of the intelligence services. The strengthening of the intelligence services, as provided for in the coalition agreement, can further improve the functioning of the State's security in terms of interference and espionage. Secondly, the rules for the recognition and subsidy of mosques are clear. The security services, being the federal police, the military intelligence service, the OCAD, the Foreign Affairs Service, the Financial Information Centre and the State Security Centre, must each formulate an opinion based on an investigation and the analysis they make. The file of the Grand Mosque of Brussels clearly shows that the nature of the foreign influences does not correspond to the rules for recognition and therefore also to the subsidy by the Belgian authorities. That's why I intervened by giving a negative opinion. The Executive of the Muslims of Belgium is the representative body for the Islamic worship recognised and subsidised by Belgium. I do not, of course, tolerate any foreign intervention in this regard either. When you ask for all Islam organizations to be screened, you start from the wrong starting point. The Security of the State is charged with monitoring the activities of foreign intelligence services and espionage. The dossier in question shows that it is possible that such activities affect religious organisations. However, this does not mean that we will screen all Muslim organisations to see if there is any interference. That would be an inverse stigmatizing approach. If we receive information about a particular organisation, we will, of course, investigate that information. My answer to your last question is also an answer to Mr Metsu's third and fourth questions. We continue to go for a recognition of the Great Mosque. It is clear, however, that a number of things need to change. The reasons for the negative advice of the security services should be eliminated. That's obvious. In the meantime, the person on the basis of which the negative opinion was partly based has resigned. We have asked for official confirmation of this. We are convinced that the Great Mosque can in the near future be a place of prayer for all Muslim citizens who choose to do so freely. We will do what we can with the Muslim community in our country. We also remain faithful to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of 22 March 2016. These are the recommendations that Mr Pivin referred to. Mr Metsu, I have already replied to Mrs Thibaut in committee on 9 December. However, I shall be polite to tell you what I said there. The FPS Justice received the request for advice regarding the recognition of the Great Mosque from the Brussels-Capital Region on 21 February. The FPS Justice then asked the Region for additional information. On 19 March, the FPS Justice requested a draft security opinion from the security services. On 12 June, the State Security requested an extension of the advisory period, taking into account the corona crisis. This was not a triple of the deadline, but a doubling of the deadline. In view of the corona crisis, this is justified by the fact that the mosques were closed first during that period and subsequently were subject to strict corona measures, which made it very difficult for the security services to visit the Great Mosque. The draft safety opinion of the security services dates from 14 October 2020. I delivered a negative opinion on 3 December 2020. Mr. Pivin, ASBL Association de gestion de la Grande Mosquee de Bruxelles (AGMB) is the manager of the building of the Grande Mosquee. Its constitution is partly the same as that of the ASBL of the Belgian Muslim Executive. The security services detected espionage and interference problems and rendered a negative opinion. The application for recognition was submitted by the ASBL of the Belgian Muslim Executive. The Brussels Region is competent for the recognition of mosques on its territory, including the Great Mosque. In accordance with Article 3(1) of the Cooperation Agreement of 2 July 2008 amending the Cooperation Agreement of 27 May 2004 between the Federal Authority, the German-speaking Community, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region as regards the recognition of religions, the treatment and pensions of ministers of religions, church factories and institutions responsible for the management of the time of recognized religions, when applying for recognition as a local community, the opinion of the Federal Authority shall be sought by the Region(s) concerned. In order to be able to issue this notice, I have received a copy of the nomination file from the Grand Mosque of the Minister-President of the Brussels Region. Mr Pivin, this was an interference by the Moroccan government in the way the Moroccan community makes Islam live in Belgium. I cannot quote the obviously secret opinion of the State Security. After receiving the notice from the security services, I asked the ASBL AGMB, which has the concession, to revoke the administrator concerned. I'm waiting for official confirmation that this person has resigned. I will not terminate the concession agreement, but it is clear that I will not accept any further interference in the operation of the Great Mosque. Mr Metsu, there have been contacts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Morocco on this subject, prior to the public publication of the opinion. I also said this in reply to the question put by your colleague, Mrs Thibaut. I have also taken steps towards the Belgian Muslim Executive (EMB). The person was also a member of the EMB. I had asked him to give up all his services in the Great Mosque and the EMB. In accordance with the internal rules, the organs of the Muslim executive must be renewed every six years. I have received a lot of reactions to my appeal to the Muslims in our country to be heard. Many Muslims want to join a new story. With those interested and experts, we will look at how we will modernise the organs of the Muslim executive, taking into account, of course, the freedom of religion, which is a fundamental right in our Constitution. For the screening of alleged extremists, our security services are doing their job, within the contours I have indicated on Mr Van Langenhove's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u5	Mr Minister, and indeed Mr Metsu, I have been through a lot here over the past few years, but I am rather shocked by your speech and your reactions. When I see that there is espionage going on through the Great Mosque and many other Islamic organizations in our country, when I see that tax money is being used in a terrible way to undermine the Belgian State, the Flemish people, when I see that Islam is being used to serve the interests of foreign powers in our country, when I see that your first reaction is not how you can solve the problem and make sure that it does not happen anymore, but that you are looking for an answer to the question of how to avoid extreme rightwing parties and organizations using raara which are using the facts to gather more voters behind themselves, that is really hallucinating. I hope that we can do something else about politics, because that attitude is really very low. You say you can't or may not screen all these organizations, but look at France. After far too long it has come too far, we are now at last taking steps and screening organizations massively. It is now even true that certain Islamic organisations are banned in France, while they are receiving subsidies in Belgium. How do you explain that to the taxpayer? How do you explain that to people who rightly feel unsafe? In the case of foreign influences, an organisation would not be recognised or its recognition would be withdrawn. Of course it isn't. While it is so ready for many organisations as pumping water that they do not deserve recognition, because there are huge foreign influences, they still retain their recognition. That's not true, of course. We shouldn't tell each other that. I have tabled a motion for a recommendation in which I summarise all of this and express the hope that action will be taken. By this I mean no action against the democratic process, no action against parties who rightly bring out the news and call for action at last, but action against the problems, against espionage, against the abuse of taxpayers' money, against the abuse of Islam to give foreign powers influence and power in Belgium. Maybe we should do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I have received my answers. When it comes to espionage and security, we say exactly the same thing as the previous speaker, but we are waiting for this story to come to an end, whether or not it comes to recognition. I assume that all services under our Justice Minister will do their work in honour and conscience. I'm a little worried about the deadline. You say that period has not tripled. That period has more than doubled. If we look at the whole term, we can see a triple. If the security of the state for the sake of corona the mosque can't or can't even enter, then my clog breaks. We will not let go of this dossier, from any angle, whether from the majority or from the opposition. For the time being, I have my answers, but there's still a lot to be done in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u7	Minister, thank you for the clarification you have been able to give us, but first I want to thank you for your determination because it is a matter that is not simple and, for the time being, rather serves the interests of the Muslim community. Beacons have been in place for years. Rules exist and you're kind of the guardian. I find that you are very determined and firm in the management of this case. I believe that there is only this firmness that will preserve both the interests of Belgium and the interests of the Muslim community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u8	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dries Van Langenhove and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having regard to the negative opinion given by the Justice Department on the recognition file for the Grand Mosque in Brussels; - having regard to the fact that the negative opinion of the Justice Department is based on the findings of the State Security Office, which were unanimously endorsed by the other security services; - having regard to the fact that the Great Mosque was funded for decades by Saudi Arabia and the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 unanimously decided that something had to change in the management of the Great Mosque; - whereas, according to the security services, the Saudi grip would have been replaced by a Moroccan grip on the administration; - considering that the Muslim executive, the official representation of Muslims in Belgium, also has spies in its ranks; asks the government - to remove the spies known today in the administration of the Great Mosque and the Muslim executive from operation and management, and to build in guarantees so that there will be no further foreign interference or espionage; - to put a definitive end to the facilitation and subsidising of organisations which appear to serve the interests of foreign Islamic powers, in particular the Great Mosque, the Muslim executive and the network of Diyanet Mosques; - to carry out a broader screening of all Islamic organisations in our country to check whether foreign interference and even espionage are taking place in these organisations; - to think about a new structure for the building that was built in 1879, was converted into a Mosque in 1978, and was put into use as a Mosque until 2020." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dries Van Langenhove and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - having regard to the negative opinion delivered by the Department of Justice concerning the dossier of recognition of the Great Mosque in Brussels; - in view of the fact that this negative opinion of the judiciary is based on conclusions reached by the State Security and unanimously approved by the other security services; - considering that the Great Mosque was financed for several decades by Saudi Arabia and that the commission of inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 unanimously decided that the management of the Great Mosque should be changed; - Considering that, according to the security services, Saudi Arabia's control over the management of the mosque would have left room for control by the Moroccan authorities; - Considering that the Muslim Executive, the official representation of Muslims in Belgium, also has spies in its ranks; asks the government - to remove from the operation and management of the Great Mosque and the Muslim Executive the spies currently known within these bodies and to provide guarantees in order to avoid any further acts of interference or foreign espionage; - to put a definitive end to any support and subsidization for organizations that appear to serve the interests of foreign Islamic powers, in particular the Great Mosque, the Muslim Executive and the Diyanet mosque network; - to monitor more widely all the Islamic organizations present in our country in order to verify whether acts of foreign interference or even espionage are connected with them; - to reflect on a new assignment for this building of 1879 which was transformed into a mosque in 1978 and retained this function until 2020." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u9	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of staff in the judiciary has been denounced by the judiciary for many years. It can be said that your predecessors have not demonstrated themselves in this matter. On average, managers are only filled at 90%. These figures reach abyssal depths in some particular jurisdictions: 87% in Antwerp, 78% in Brussels and 65% in the Nivelles Commercial Court. Over the last five years, the number of active magistrates has increased from 2,469 in 2015 to 2,378 in 2019. This lack of staff creates a simply catastrophic backlog of cases. For example, it was reported in September that more than 10,000 criminal cases opened in 2009 or earlier have not yet been closed. As many as 2,650 of these cases date back to the 1990s. The situation is such that last March, the Brussels Court of First Instance ordered the Belgian State to publish within three months the vacancy in the judiciary, under penalty. It is therefore clear that existing staff are not sufficient to ensure the right of each litigant to have his or her case dealt with within a reasonable period of time. In this sense, Belgium is violating its international obligations, in particular the rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. Minister, pending the implementation of the new allocation system, are you planning measures to ensure the immediate engagement of additional magistrates to comply with the existing legal framework? Will the new allocation system maintain the judiciary at least within the current legal framework? What budget are you planning to meet your promise to hire more prosecutors, criminologists and referendums?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u10	Madam President, Mr Boukili, my services check monthly the filling rate of judicial officers with the support services of the College of Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions. In order to ensure continuity, holiday plans are drawn up periodically. In 2020, 202 vacancies for judges have already been published. On 8 December, a new consultation took place between my services and the colleges, following which the impetus was given for a new judicial vacation plan of EUR 5 million. I expect from the colleges a concrete proposal to allocate these vacant places by mid-January. The government agreement provides for further analysis of the workload of judges. Legal frameworks for judges and judicial personnel will be replaced, possibly through a transitional regime, by a model of legal allowances that allows an objective and dynamic distribution of resources between courts and prosecutors according to the workload. When developing this allocation model from existing frameworks, the results of the workload measurement will be taken into account. I can tell you that the process of reflection is currently being tinkered with the judicial order, of course, while respecting the independence of the judiciary. I have already participated in some meetings, which dealt with this point, with the various colleges in particular. There is no separate budget for the recruitment of prosecutors, referenda and criminologists. They are recruited from the overall staffing envelope for the judiciary. The selection of these profiles is therefore a recurring consideration, whenever holiday plans are drawn up. I note that colleagues are gradually taking this option. For example, the recruitment of 49 referendums is currently planned and the Public Prosecutor's Office has again included 40 prosecutors in its recent holiday plans for the year 2020. In the context of the EUR 125 million budget allocated this year to justice, as you know, it is planned to spend part of the money for justice personnel, including lawyers, referendums and criminologists, in agreement with the actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would remind you that the situation is quite serious. I'm not teaching you. I think you know that. I regret that there is no specific budget to respond to the problems of the judiciary. It remains part of the overall budget that is planned. I notice that I always get the same answer. We don't know how to have a department-defined budget. I hope that in the future, we will have a slightly more accurate view to assess whether the initiatives taken by the department are truly meeting the needs of the sector and so that we can have a clearer answer, which is not just to say that an overall budget will be allocated. It would be interesting to have a little more details on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u12	Minister, in prisons it was decided to take a number of exceptional measures due to the health crisis. Two different systems were used for this purpose, in particular the interruption of sentences and early release. Minister, how many prisoners have been covered by these systems in recent years? Were there any prisoners who didn't return to prison under these systems? Do you think that the criteria for the interruption of sentences and early release should be adapted in the future or do you believe that they will be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u13	Mr Gabriels, at the first wave, 508 prisoners were suspended. At the end of the measures in this first phase, a total of 22 prisoners did not return. The parquet and the SURB were informed of this. Today, 12 of these 22 prisoners are back in prison while the 10 others have been spotted. Of the prisoners who have not returned, 2 of them belong to the category with a prison sentence of 7 to 10 years, 2 to the category from 5 to 7 years and 6 to the category from 3 to 5 years. In the first wave, 221 prisoners were released early. No serious incidents have been reported to me for both categories. The criteria for these systems were adjusted between the first and second wave. Because they were intertwined. In the context of the interruption of the sentence, three successful penitentiary leave must have been granted instead of just one. In addition, two additional categories of convicted persons were excluded, on top of the three categories already excluded. The three categories previously excluded concerned convicted persons with more than 10 years of punishment, convicted persons with penalties for offences referred to in Book 2, Title I of the Criminal Code, in particular crimes against the State's internal security, and people convicted of sexual crimes. The two additional excluded categories are people who are subject to a conviction with a posting of the criminal execution court and convicted persons who are succeeded by the OCAD. The latter exclusion has also been added in the context of early release. However, I would like to stress that these are not structural measures, as they were only taken to relieve the pressure of prison overcrowding in the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u14	Minister, it is a good thing that the conditions have been adjusted and they are, of course, exceptional measures. Thank you for the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u15	Madam President, I should like to express my best wishes to you and to the colleagues in the Committee on Justice and to the Minister. This phenomenon does not date from yesterday. Each year, several hundred attacks are committed on SNCB staff – accompanying and supervising staff. In order to best protect SNCB workers in contact with the public from the violence against them, the Act of 20 December 2006 introduced an article 410 bis in the Criminal Code in order to make explicit reference to this category of workers. The College of Attorneys General had in turn revised Circular No. 3/2008, in its recent version of 2014, to focus attention on persons who, in the performance of their duties, fulfil a public interest mission, such as train or bus drivers. It is our responsibility, however, that the aim of the legislator's protection is not achieved in this case. Often a follow-up of the complaint by a contact worker is not carried out properly in the event that the violence suffered did not lead to a work stoppage for incapacity. There are also cases where access to the criminal record is complicated, the duty to investigate is not respected, or the Public Prosecutor's Office does not prosecute many reported cases. My questions are simple. Would you have any statistics on the number of prosecutions for a complaint of violence filed by a contact employee of SNCB, TEC or De Lijn, i.e. public transport services? Are you planning new measures to comply with the wishes of the legislator and to ensure effective protection for SNCB employees, TEC, De Lijn? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u16	Dear colleague, these questions are important to me. People working in these service sectors must be able to do their job safely. This applies to people working for SNCB, TEC, De Lijn, but it also applies to people working in other sectors such as nurses, paramedics, prison officers, teachers. They are all people who, on a daily basis, are at the service of citizens. They deserve this additional protection. As far as the figures are concerned, this is another story. Indeed, the data banks of the Public Prosecutor's Office are not so detailed as to extract the exact figures for SNCB, TEC and De Lijn. We first focused on the problem of violence against the police. Like me, you will have noticed the need for our law enforcement agencies to intervene, especially during this period of coronavirus. Circular COL 10/2017 has already been adapted and strengthened with regard to violence against the police. The other protected occupational categories, as provided for in article 410 bis of the Criminal Code, are, as you say, the subject of another circular: Circular COL 3 of 2008. This applies to employees of transport companies, prison guards, doctors and other professions in direct contact with citizens. Some of these professions have written to me, like the SCNB. I have already spoken with some of them and have explicitly asked the College of Attorneys General to evaluate this circular and make proposals for amendments. What is important to me is that the Public Prosecutor's Office reacts quickly and appropriately to the acts of violence committed against employees of public transport companies, as you ask. This must not always result in a prison sentence. Indeed, alternatives are possible and often even more appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that a request has been made to the College of Attorneys General concerning this specific case. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a response from the public authorities and the Public Prosecutor's Office in relation to the acts of violence and the aggressors, but also in relation to listening to the victims. It is also very important, for example in the case of escorts and controllers; what is missing today is a careful listening to the acts of violence against them. The situation of the covid has not improved since new types of problematic behaviour have been identified. I will therefore pay attention to the follow-up to this question and the answers to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u18	Madam President, the roads of the Rue de la Loi are sometimes inscrutable. Some time ago, I tabled this question both in writing and orally, and the answer to the written question was given three weeks ago. So I will not repeat the question now. If the answer is exactly the same as the written answer, then I do not want the Minister to repeat it. However, if there is new information on apps such as TikTok, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u19	Madam President, Mr Freilich, I have indeed given a written answer. I am, of course, aware of the risks of such apps, and I have also pointed out the risks in the answer. The Security of the State has repeatedly stressed the importance of strict privacy settings in its publications. Some examples are the Travel Security brochure and the publication The hidden danger behind COVID-19. Targeted briefings and awareness sessions also highlight the vulnerabilities of mobile devices in the field of foreign espionage. A healthy safety reflex is indicated. People need to be aware of the risks so that they can behave accordingly. A ban on the use of such apps is, in my view, disproportionate and is therefore not a matter for discussion. However, I am in favour of good cooperation between the public authorities and the private sector in order to improve information security. Regardless of the purpose of computer use, professionally or otherwise, it is important that all citizens are aware of the importance of protecting private data. Therefore, at European level, a comprehensive protection of private data was built into the GDPR legislation. Unfortunately, this protection outside the EU is less self-evident and therefore, caution should be exercised when those data are stored or transferred outside the EU. Your questions regarding a campaign and quality label have not yet been addressed in the written question. I suggest that you address your questions to my colleague for Telecommunications, who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u20	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u21	Madam President, Minister, on 28 October 2020 you answered some of the questions I asked about imam training. However, you did not answer certain questions and certain answers have raised new questions for me, hence a few follow-up questions. Have there been registrations for the imam programme for the academic year 2020-2021? If so, how many registrations are we talking about? Have the students also started the training effectively? To my question whether the curriculum of the theological training has already been completed, this was not yet the case in March 2020, you replied that the preparation of the programme and the budget for theological training is still ongoing. For reflection: the training started in January 2020, but in March 2020 we knew that the curriculum had not yet been completed for the theological section and in October 2020 you replied that this is still not the case. We can therefore conclude that eleven months after the start of the training, the curriculum has not yet been completed. How is that possible? What is being done about this and is preventing current students from participating in the programme in any way? We would also have liked to ask a follow-up question about the budgets for the theological section. Where are they? Can you give us an update on this? You replied to my question about the foreign internships that there were currently no internships planned in the framework of the training organised by the AFOR for servants of the Islamic worship service. May I ask what that means? Does this mean that there are no internships planned abroad, but for example in the interior, or that there are simply no internships planned, because they will only take place at a later stage of the training, for example in the third year? I kindly ask you to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u22	Madam President, Mr Metsu, the AFOR initially enrolled eleven students for the 2020-2021 academic year. Only five of them were able to keep their registration. Some have had to cancel their registration, while others have had their registration cancelled by the university because they could not pay the registration fees in time. At present, therefore, five students are enrolled at the KULeuven for the civil part of the programme. According to the information given to us by the President of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, the preparation of the programme for the theological section is thus in the final stage. According to the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, the delay would have to do with three elements. Firstly, the AFOR has spent time in the civil part of the training, the part you are already familiar with. This involves searching for universities, negotiating and signing protocol agreements. The progress of such an ambitious project is very complicated, while the directors of the AFOR are volunteers who do so after their working hours. Thirdly, there is the impact of the corona crisis. The President could not tell us exactly when the academic board of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium will approve the theological programme. I continue to urge you to clarify this quickly. In 2020, my predecessor allocated a budget of EUR 192,000 to the AFOR for the civilian part of the training. For the theological part of the training, we provide the same amount in the 2021 budget. This is less than the amount AFOR himself asked for. Both amounts can be used for two academic years. These grants will be evaluated in June 2022. If these funds cannot be accounted for, for example by a low number of students, part of the grant or the full grant will have to be repaid. The programme of the theological part of the training also involves the possible provision of internships, but, as mentioned above, this programme must be validated in the short term by the academic council of the Muslim executive. Then I will have more information on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u23	Minister, I am a little disappointed that the corona crisis has always come out as a monkey or is being pulled as a map. A lot of time will indeed have been spent in the bourgeois section, I hope. Then there is the fact that the drivers are volunteers. If one assumes that this is very important, I can imagine that one should not allow too much time to pass. It's about nice budgets. For the theological part, it is about 120,000 euros. The same amount shall be allocated to the civil part. Part of it would be repaid if the number of students were not to increase at the moment there would be five students. That will be one of my follow-up questions, namely whether this is actually the case. I'm still sorry that so much time has to pass. One starts, but one is not ready. I will continue to follow up on this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u24	Madam President, Minister, I was warned on 11 December that a young prisoner from Turnhout prison would have been found hanging in his cell that morning. Since then, I have read that an inmate would have thrown himself out of the second floor window of Saint-Gilles Prison. Perhaps there have been other cases since then, of which I have not been aware. In general, Belgian prisons have a very worrying rate of suicide: in Belgian prisons, one in three deaths is suicide. A study by the University of Ghent reports that between 2000 and 2016, 262 inmates committed suicide, an eight-fold rate higher than that observed in free society. This figure is probably underestimated, as only suicides reported as such by a forensic physician are listed. The same study notes that the first months of detention are the most critical in terms of risk: 45% of suicides occur in the first month of detention, 23% in the first week. In its 2016 leaflet, the International Prison Observatory states that prisoners commit more suicide under stricter disciplinary conditions, and stresses the often inadequate handling of suicide attempts: they can be considered as attempts to blackmail and are treated as security breaches rather than as calls for assistance requiring specific treatment. It does not seem unusual for the detainee to be placed in a naked cell or transferred without any psychological or psychiatric support. Minister, can you confirm the information about this suicide in Turnhout? In such cases, what care is provided for co-inmates and agents? What about the families of the detainees concerned? Do you have suicide figures in our prisons for the period 2017-2020? Are some prisons more affected than others? In 2007, the World Health Organization made reducing the number of suicides in prison an international priority. What preventive measures are taken in Belgium to prevent prisoners from reaching this extreme? So what are the checks carried out during the first weeks that visibly crystallize the risk? What follow-up is provided in case of self-injury or attempted suicide? Do we have statistics on these incidents as well as on post-carceral suicides?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u25	Madam President, dear colleague, I confirm to you that, unfortunately, a prisoner recently killed himself in Turnhout prison. According to information provided to me by the prison administration, the person concerned had little contact with his family. During the incident, the telephone numbers of relatives were communicated by the prison management to the police, which ensured that the family would be informed. The prisoner's foster mother was also contacted by the prison in the afternoon of this tragic incident. When she learned the bad news, she expressed her dissatisfaction that she had only been informed of the death by the local police late. Staff officers who discovered the deceased had the opportunity to meet with members of the internal support team. Inmates who worked with the deceased in the dressing room were able to meet with staff of the prison's care and psychosocial services. Several other detainees who knew the deceased well were also heard. A commemoration ceremony was held in the presence of about ten detainees. With respect to your request for suicide figures in our prisons, there were 13 suicides in 2017, 16 in 2018, 12 in 2019 and 14 in 2020. As my predecessor pointed out in a fairly recent response, suicide is a complicated issue. This is already the case in free society, but it is even more true in the essentially confined environment that a prison is. Significant efforts are being made both within prisons and at the central government level to try to combat this risk in the best possible way. In addition to being included in the day-to-day policy of the institutions, concrete actions are undertaken such as increased vigilance of medical and psychosocial services from the moment of the inmate's reception, increased visual checks when such risks are reported, a suicide prevention course given during the basic training of the agents or a specific training "Prevention of suicide" which can be taken as part of the continuing training. In addition, the Community's inmate support services are also important partners in prevention, such as the creation of leaflets or assistance in the development of training. I recall that almost all detainees now have a telephone in their cell that allows them to call free-of-charge telephone numbers, as is the case for people living at large. Cases of self-injury or attempted suicide are not listed in the overall statistics, in particular because it is often difficult to distinguish between these two actions. On the other hand, such behaviour is individually reported and monitored, where appropriate, by the above-mentioned services. Finally, the prison administration does not have statistics on post-carriage suicides which, by definition, occur when the persons concerned are no longer in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u26	Mr Minister, I thank you for the clarifications you have given, in particular, on the situation in Turnhout. In general, the most important thing is prevention upstream in order to prevent people from taking action. It is not just a disciplinary response. On this point, you have spoken in particular about the training of agents, which I think is very important. With regard to post-custodial suicides, I understand that this is not within the jurisdiction of the administration. However, a person's suicide after leaving prison can be indicative of a failure in reintegration policies. That is why, in my view, good follow-up within the prison can help reduce the risk of suicide after leaving prison. So this is a form of extension. It would therefore be appropriate to consider collaboration with the administration. Indeed, post-carceral suicide does not intervene in a vacuum. Finally, I should have asked you about the collaboration with the Public Health FPS in terms of prevention. I will do so on the occasion of a next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u27	Minister, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – which you are familiar with, since you have sat there – has just adopted several resolutions on the use of artificial intelligence (AI). One of them focuses more specifically on criminal justice. In this regard, and I quote the text of the resolution, "the Assembly considers that the use of AI in police and criminal justice systems may be, in many respects, incompatible with fundamental ethical principles" for several reasons that can be combined and aggravated: the systems can be provided by private companies that refuse transparency on behalf of intellectual property; the creation of data itself may be subject to discrimination; resource or time constraints place police officers and judge them in a situation of dependence on automated systems. On the basis of this finding, the Parliamentary Assembly has issued 13 concrete recommendations to the Member States, of which Belgium is of course one. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Have you been able to read the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the use of artificial intelligence in criminal justice? Do you think that Belgium is in line with these recommendations? Otherwise, do you intend to take initiatives to make this happen? If so, which ones? For example, is there a public register of all applications of artificial intelligence used by the public sector? Are independent evaluations or controls conducted on these applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u28	Mr Lacroix, I am well aware of the work of the Council of Europe in the field of artificial intelligence and, in particular, of the various recommendations made in the field of criminal justice. In addition to these recommendations, initiatives have been taken in recent years in various European institutions to guide the use of artificial intelligence, including in the field of criminal justice. Here are some of them. I am thinking first of all of the development of guidelines for facial recognition by a sub-working group set up within the European Data Protection Committee. These include the development of guidelines for facial recognition within the framework of the Advisory Committee on Convention 108 within the Council of Europe; a study commissioned by the LIBE Committee of the European Parliament entitled "Artificial Intelligence and Law Enforcement" was carried out by the VUB and published in July 2020. It lists the dangers of this technology and argues for a clear legal framework if it is politically decided to continue the development of this technology; the European Agency for Fundamental Rights published in 2019 a report on facial recognition and fundamental rights. It has just published on 13 December 2020 a report on artificial intelligence and fundamental rights, which reiterates the sensitivity and high risks associated with the use of this type of technology; the European Commission has also continued its work (a follow-up to the publication of its White Paper on artificial intelligence) and intends to table a legislative initiative on this issue in the spring of this year. This White Paper highlights the fact that facial recognition technologies need to be reconsidered as high-risk uses of artificial intelligence. Finally, the Council of the European Union has adopted several conclusions on digital transformation, in which the need for a framework for the use of this type of technology is mentioned. You will find that there are many interesting studies on the subject. As far as your second and third questions are concerned, I am very much in line with all these developments at European and international level. The use of artificial intelligence in criminal justice is a real opportunity, particularly in the area of rule of law, and offers potential to improve access to justice for and by all citizens and to facilitate the work of justice professionals. This digital transformation must be carried out in a human-centred approach and with respect for the fundamental rights of the judicial system and the principles of the rule of law. It must also enable high-quality and transparent judicial decisions to be adopted and ensure legal access by all citizens to justice. At the same time, the use of artificial intelligence tools in criminal justice is indeed a particularly sensitive application, for which a clear legal framework and additional measures must be provided to ensure respect for fundamental rights. The principles guaranteeing the protection of personal data and fundamental rights and freedoms in general must be scrupulously respected before and during each use of this technology. I regularly stress, in the context of European and international work on this subject, the importance of requiring transparency and data quality in order to avoid the risk of bias. Similarly, the use of automated tools cannot interfere with judicial independence and therefore implies that any decision by a court must be subject to human control. These are obstacles that need to be overcome before artificial intelligence technologies can be mainstreamed into criminal justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have noted the European and international framework well. I believe, indeed, that, through all these studies, it is important to establish a regulatory framework that could serve as a basis at European Union level and be applied in each country. Nevertheless, it is true that I share the fullness of your observation with regard to timeliness, but also to the danger of artificial intelligence in criminal justice matters, particularly in the area of predictive justice. We have seen in England in particular, but also in the United States and sometimes in the Netherlands, the drifts to which AI can lead: this removes autonomy from judges who sometimes no longer take the penalty or the responsibility of dejudging what can be determined by artificial intelligence. I think that if we have to work within the framework of technological progress, we have to work within the framework of human progress as well, but I am convinced, Minister, that you also share this view. Once again, I wish you and all the members of this committee an excellent year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u30	Mr Minister, first of all, I wish you good cooperation in the coming months. Our country has recently started vaccination against the coronavirus. In this context, the government announced a vaccination strategy. In doing so, a number of vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, will receive a vaccine as a priority after the vaccines have been administered to nursing staff in the residential care centres. In mid-December, the Advisory Committee on Bioethics suggested in its opinion that prisoners should also be given priority. The reasons for this are the difficult living conditions and the vulnerable state of health of prisoners. Infection does not only have a very large impact on the prisoners, but also on the guards, visitors and employees. Prime Minister, are you aware of the opinion of the Bioethics Committee? Do you agree with that advice on the vaccination of inmates? Why is that? Why is that? Secondly, will the government follow the opinion of the committee on the prisoners? If so, when will vaccination start in prisons? What are the modalities? If no, why not? Thirdly, will prison staff be given priority status in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u31	Thank you, Mr Van Hecke, for your wishes and I wish you good luck and good cooperation. Firstly, of course, I am aware of the opinion and I share the view that prisoners should be vaccinated as a priority. From the point of view of public health and control of the risk of contamination, it is important to protect individuals in collections. Of course, this also applies to prisoners in prisons. Life within collections is also strongly impacted by measures against corona, even more so than life in the outside world. It is therefore important that life within collections can be normalized as soon as possible. I therefore agree with the opinion of the Bioethics Committee, which suggests that they should be given priority. Secondly, your very pertinent questions are the subject of debate in the 'Vaccination' task force, in which the penitentiary administration also participates. So he's involved in the consultation. No decisions have yet been taken on the possible priority. The priority goes out today to the residential care centers. No final decision has yet been taken on the prisoners and on the prison staff, but I can assure you that I will argue in favour of giving priority to the prisons in the next phase. The proposal on the priority status of penitentiary staff is also still being presented. The Department of Occupational Medicine Empreva is also represented in the Task Force and follows up on the issue for us. It seems logical to me that the entire collection should be vaccinated at the same time, i.e. prisoners and staff, where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. I am pleased that you respond to the concerns expressed by the Bioethics Committee in its opinion. Hopefully, we will be able to expect a clear decision in the coming weeks, and both the detainees and the staff who work there can also be given priority status, obviously and clearly after the priority target groups in the residential care centres and the nursing staff, which have already been defined. It should be carefully considered to give priority to individuals in collections such as prisons. I'll keep following the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u33	Minister, the Swedish coalition took a number of steps at the time to reduce the Belgian nationality of whom terrorism is condemned more effectively Under current legislation, Belgians may lose their nationality on application by the public prosecutor if they are sentenced to a prison of at least five years for terrorism. I refer, of course, to the N-VA's bill, which was tabled and which seeks to extend this provision to all Belgian convicts with multiple nationalities, with no difference as to whether Belgian nationality was obtained at the time of birth or at another time. Unfortunately, as you know, despite additional weakenings, this bill was voted off in the Chamber. It is regrettable, however, that neither the government agreement nor the policy statement gives any attention to this issue. My questions are simple. The answers may be a little more complex. We'll see. Will you lower the lower limit for taking Belgian nationality in the case of serious crimes such as terrorist crimes? If so, in what way? Or will you, on the other hand, defend the same statement as your predecessor, when I expect something more substantial from you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u34	Mr Metsu, as you point out, there is no change in the revocation of nationality either in the government agreement or in my policy statement. It is therefore not the government's intention to intervene further in the legislative work in this area, because the existing legal arsenal seems to us to be sufficient at the moment. You know that there was no majority for your bill about a year ago, and I fear that that majority will not be there now either. I believe that Parliament's work has been thorough. I would also like to congratulate you on that and also the committee. Several opinions have been taken, if I am not mistaken. Several bodies have been heard. The opinions were largely negative for various reasons. I would nevertheless like to give you two important reasons, both legal and constitutional, why I believe that the amendment you are proposing does not seem to me to be evident, or not legal. Since I want to be correct in terms of legal terminology, you will forgive me for the fact that it is quite technical. Firstly, where a Belgian national has been convicted of terrorist offences and a prison sentence of at least five years has been imposed, the court may, on application by the prosecution, declare the revocation. To answer precisely your first question: the government does not wish to reduce or abolish the current penalty level, as you suggested in your legislative proposal, laid down in Article 23/2 of the Belgian Code of Nationality. Enlargement could cause problems. For example, a person who has been convicted but enjoys the suspension of punishment would lose his Belgian nationality, even if the proceedings at the end of this trial period, if the suspension is not revoked, would be definitively terminated, so that a suspect would not have a criminal record for the offences to which he was found guilty. In other words, he would not have a criminal record in this case, but would lose his nationality. This seems to me to be quite an exaggeration, don't you think? Secondly, Article 23/2 of the Belgian Code provides for a penalty rate equal to the penalty rate currently provided for in Article 23/1 of the same Code. Article 23/1 lists various offences, including crimes and malpractices against the security of the State, serious violations of international humanitarian law and trafficking in human beings, which may give rise to a declaration of revocation, in so far as the level of sentence imposed is at least five years in prison. The abolition of this lower limit is difficult to justify only in the case of the condemnation of terrorism, but not for these other crimes of equal seriousness. This could potentially be a violation of the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Hence, for these two reasons and others, we cannot go into your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u35	This isn't a surprise. You had already spoken out on the bill. I'm not talking about the whole bill here. There was a question from Open Vld about this bill at the time. They wanted to depart from those five years and go to an effective condemnation, which was enough for the liberals. Open Vld wanted to make abstraction of the lower limit of five years, but Belgians from birth, that went too far and they didn't want to do that effectively. They also did not want to know about the automatic cancellation. So I took that out. The automatic revocation is still a judicial test. We didn't want to take Belgians from birth, because the bill would have been completely hollowed out. The only question now is whether we want to deviate from the five-year deadline. Open Vld has already taken a stand on this at the time and said that from an effective conviction they were prepared to allow the judge to rule on the removal of dual nationality. I know, of course, what has changed in the meantime, and I understand that from your point of view. You are in a very difficult situation, dominated, so to speak, you do not like to hear it by a left-wing majority. I find it strange to hear now that the proposal of about a year ago, in which Open Vld went along with it, is now out of the question and not even negotiable, and is not included in the government statement or in your policy letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I would like to go back to the directives given by the College of Attorneys General in its last circular, in particular concerning the penalties imposed on workers in the event of non-compliance with measures in the undertaking. The College considers that, in this case, not only the company itself but also the workers concerned may be prosecuted. This instruction given to prosecutors, based on the wording of article 238 of the Social Penal Code, is problematic in more than one way. It is, first of all, contrary to the principles of social criminal law, which is traditionally addressed only to the employer and is not intended to punish workers. It then seems to me that it does not take into account the reality of the terrain and the link of subordination in which the workers are located vis-à-vis the management of their company. We no longer count the testimonies of workers whose company does not allow them to comply with the measures, whether it is a ban on teleworking when the function allows it, the unavailability of masks or the prohibition of wearing them, the absence of a hydro-alcoholic gel, the impossibility of respecting social distancing, and I pass by. Workers want to comply with health measures, but in many cases they are prevented by their management. In Jupille, a stoppage of work was necessary in order to force management to take the necessary minimum measures. Minister, can you clarify the criteria that will lead to the prosecution of either the worker or the employer or both in the event of non-compliance with health measures in the workplace? Do you not think that this instruction to prosecute workers on the basis of a provision of social criminal law is contrary to the relevant principles? Are you considering an amendment to article 238 of the Social Penal Code, in consultation with the trade unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u37	Madam President, Mr Boukili, Special Powers Order No. 37 issued pursuant to Articles 2 and 5 of the Law of 27 March 2020 granting powers to the King in order to take measures in the fight against the spread of covid-19 coronavirus aimed at supporting workers, introduced an article 238 in the Social Penal Code. This article "punishes a level 2 sanction, the employer, his servant or agent, or anyone who, in the undertakings, has failed to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 15 of Special Powers Order No. 37. For the purposes of this Article, "enterprises" shall mean "workplaces" as defined in Article 16, 10° of this Code. With regard to the offences referred to in paragraph 1, committed by the employer, his servant or agent, the fine shall be multiplied by the number of workers concerned." The choice of person or persons to be punished therefore depends on each situation. If the employer, his servant or agent gives orders contrary to the health rules contained in the special powers orders, he is solely responsible for the offence. The same applies if the employer forces its workers to come to work without providing them with the necessary protections or allowing them to comply with the distancing rules. In this case, the worker acts on the order of his employer and his fault is erased by the behaviour of his employer. On the other hand, if the employer, his servant or representative has put in place all the necessary measures to comply with the health rules and the worker refuses to comply with them, in particular by refusing to wear the mask, only the worker is punished. It is possible to punish both the employer and the worker if, in a concerted manner, they have breached the regulations. The same applies if the employer does not react when the worker refuses to comply with the health rules. I am thinking in particular of an employer who finds that a worker does not wear his mask and leaves it to do so. The competent labour inspectorates on the basis of article 17 of the Social Penal Code and the labour auditorates pay attention to the choice of the person or persons to be punished on the basis of the rules of accountability. Each report based on article 238 of the Social Penal Code is assessed by a magistrate. No immediate recovery is used in this case. Even though the wave of elimination of criminal sanctions against "employees" took place from 1952 to 1976, there are still some repressive provisions in the Social Penal Code, which provides for sanctions, either specifically against workers or against any person, whether or not he is part of the enterprise, including workers. For example, the Code makes it possible to punish, in matters of well-being at work, any person who commits an act of violence or moral or sexual harassment at work, who contravenes the Act of 5 May 1888 on the inspection of dangerous, unhealthy or uncomfortable establishments, the Coordinated Acts of 15 September 1919 on mines, mining and quarrying, and the Act of 6 July 1949 on the housing of workers in industrial, agricultural or commercial enterprises and farms. Article 238 of the Social Penal Code is therefore not contrary to the philosophy of the Code. Since the penalty imposed by article 238 is not contrary to the principles contained in the Social Penal Code, there is no need to amend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad to know that it is first and foremost employers who are obliged to enforce the measures. But I still want to say that this instruction creates more ambiguity than solutions. Indeed, pretending that the worker would refuse to comply with the rules is presented as if he refused to comply with the internal regulations of an undertaking. The evidence we've heard on the ground is not in that sense. I would remind you that workers are in need of health security measures. Moreover, they went on strike, particularly in Jupille, to benefit from a minimum of health measures and work in safety. I believe that placing workers in this context, as if they were reluctant to take health measures, creates an ambiguity that is not appropriate. Workers are the first to demand that the measures be respected in their workplace, and they are the first to respect them. Above all, putting them on an equal footing with employers, as if compliance with health measures depended only on workers, was a danger to labour law. You say that there is no contradiction with Article 238, but this article has never been used to condemn workers. I therefore think that there is an ambiguity here. I will come back to this issue later to see if any situation on the ground has come into conflict with the spirit of this Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I wish you well. Last summer, Namur's Attorney made a remarkable act. He refused to sign a protocol agreement to allow seven route checks of the federal police to enter into force on Walloon territory. With that refusal, the prosecutor wanted to sue the increased workload of the parquets, which would result from the increase in the number of fixings, speed cameras, route checks and so on. However well-meant, the action of the prosecutor was very unfortunate, as he also seemed to indirectly steer a form of impunity in a country in which the number of victims in traffic remains sadly high. At the plenary session on Thursday 2 July 2020, I already spoke with your predecessor on the issue. He told me that the camera law provides for a good cooperation between the public prosecutors, the police and the regional authorities. Not all traffic breaches can be dealt with quickly via the crossborder system and so on. Some crimes also require a clear response from the public prosecutor. In any case, your predecessor expressed the intention to move things in the direction desired by the Justice Department, whatever that meant. Minister, I have four specific questions. First of all, do you share your predecessor's intention? If yes, in what way do you complete that intention? Secondly, have steps been taken in recent months to address the public prosecutors' concerns without reducing the chances of traffic crime? If so, what steps are they? Thirdly, if this is not the case, how do you think cooperation between the police, the police and the authorities can be optimised? Finally, can you confirm the increased workload on traffic crime by means of figures, such as the percentages on the number of traffic breaches handled automatically via the crossborder system? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u40	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your wishes as well. I in turn wish you the best and good luck in your job and private life. Mr Raskin, increasing the chances of getting caught is a necessary part of improving road safety. My predecessor has already invested significantly in increasing that opportunity. The number of traffic fines in our country is 93 %, which is quite impressive. That worked very well. Together with colleagues in the government, I want to increase the chances of catching up even more over the next few years. We must, of course, aim for fewer road deaths. This is why increasing the number of checks is important. By increasing the number of determinations, with after the flashlights also the route checks, among others by the Regions, the workload of the parquets, of the courts and of the courts also increases, of course. Additional investments will also be needed in the police services, which will reduce the workload. This must not, of course, be a reason not to use it. That is why I have scheduled a meeting with the most important partners in this story this month, including Mrs De Bue. In consultation with the College of Attorneys General, I would like to see how the work processes can be further improved. In concrete terms, I am thinking of digitising the files that have not yet been included in the automatic flow, including the Article 67ter of the traffic code and other friendly arrangements. I would also like to think about centralising a number of administrative tasks, which are now spread across the various public prosecutors. The objective is to draw up an action plan together with colleagues and all the actors of the various authorities to increase the chances of taking action and payment. A number of important steps have already been taken to meet expectations. It is important to distinguish between offences which are subject to immediate collection and other offences. The first type of violations are processed by the IT-stream crossborder. This has the advantage that the files are automatically entered and that the payment order is sent systematically. This allows to save a subpoena in case of non-payment of the immediate collection and amicable settlement. The order for payment ensures that immediate execution is possible. It's an executable title. These two major improvements have undoubtedly facilitated the work of the Public Prosecutor. However, the workload for the public prosecutors remains high in these cases, particularly in view of the numerous disputes. They must be dealt with, which, of course, cannot be done automatically. We need to pay attention to that. That element will be included in the action plan I have just referred to. When installing a new speed control system, attention should also be paid to the inevitable increase in the number of more serious offences systematically prosecuted before the police court. Some can be dealt with by a friendly settlement and a payment order, but someone who drives very fast on the motorway obviously wants to be dealt with in court. You understand. These infringements are not automatically processed and, with some rare exceptions, do not give rise to the sending of a payment order. So they require sending a subpoena to a court hearing. The time allocated to these tasks thus remains considerable. Not everything can be automated. That brings me to your third question. According to information I received from the D.A.'s office, the relationship between the D.A. and the local authorities is a good one. In each region there is a sub-network of road traffic expertise, in which magistrates, delegated by the College of Attorneys General, and representatives of the regional authorities participate. The representatives of the regions may, if they so wish, place items on the agenda and the police shall be involved in those meetings where necessary. Furthermore, the various chain partners are represented today in the steering committee of Crossborder Traffic. This steering group wants to further streamline the approach to traffic infringements in a coherent way. Now I come to your fourth question, your question about the increased workload. Approximately 90% of the infringements are automatically processed by the crossborder system. You should not forget, however, that there is a need to draw up a report for each offence and that these actions are not fully automated. Of course 90% is a very good result for the digitisation project, you will certainly not contradict me, but you should not forget that it concerns millions of files. Since about 10 % is not digitized, this means that many files still have to be handled in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I certainly understand the difficult situation in which the public prosecutors sometimes find themselves. I also have some sympathy with the prosecutor's ruling at the time. It is not just about pennies, so it is not about how much we bring in and often reinvest in road safety, it is mainly about people's lives. In that respect, I did ask myself questions about the verdict of someone with an authority like a prosecutor. Even though those statements were well-intentioned, they sounded a bit strange in the ears. Of course, the parquets have their own autonomy, with their own reality, but they are at the service of society. That is a difference with judges, because judges speak in total independence. The parquets are under your authority and you have an impact on them. I am therefore pleased to hear that you are using this impact to make an action plan, but I have not heard any timing on this. I hope it is not referred to the Greek calendar. You also know the stories about dramas that occur in traffic, with terrible suffering that so many families face. I look forward to your action plan and the joint ambition of the Committee on Mobility across party boundaries in terms of road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u42	Minister, a video of December 25 shows a cyclist knocking down a little girl in Jalhay, in the Fagnes. The images filmed by the girl's father circulated widely. This diverse fact, which did not cause any injuries, quickly gained surprising importance and questions arise as to the proportionality of the reaction of the judicial authorities. On the following day, at the request of the Verviers Public Prosecutor's Office, notices of investigation were issued by the federal police on the networks and on the RTBF chain, at an hour's notice. Is this a standard procedure for comparable events? How many calls to witnesses are broadcast annually on national television and for what types of events? Is the issuance of such a notice of research on RTBF, at that time, free of charge, or does it involve a cost and which one? The prosecution indicated that they wanted to show that they had their hands on this file in response to the media pack. This is a rather worrying response; should it be inferred that more resounding and buzzing cases are dealt with differently in the courts? The cyclist presented himself to the police and was deprived of liberty during the following night. The Public Prosecutor's Office states that this is a normal procedure. The acting divisional prosecutor, Ms. Clérin, states in Le Soir of Wednesday, December 30: "The procedure is not simple: for direct summons, which notifies the person concerned that he or she must appear in court, a computer program is required to determine the date of the hearing and a typed procedure is required. We do not know how to do this in the middle of the night and it is therefore quite common that, in this case, the person is deprived of liberty until the morning, the time to give him his quote". Minister, on what legal basis can the Public Prosecutor's Office rely on to deprive a person of liberty for purely technical or computer reasons? How many such deprivations of liberty are made annually? Do all public prosecutors have frequent recourse to this information, do you have figures in this regard? Do you consider this to be a proportionate remedy to deprivation of liberty, which is and must remain an exceptional measure? More broadly, what priority, in terms of prosecution policy, is being implemented through such rapid processing and deployment of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Prosecutor's Office of Liège Division Verviers, which received the complaint from the father of the young victim on Saturday 26 December, promptly made a call to witnesses via the print and television press on Sunday 27 December at the beginning of the evening, because of the sudden observation on social networks and the sometimes virulent comments published against the cyclist. In addition to identifying the author, the Public Prosecutor's Office wanted to avoid excesses and acts of free violence against cyclists or any other person who had been mistakenly identified as this cyclist, as had unfortunately been the case a few months ago, in a case which had to be dealt with by the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office. This case concerned violence in retaliation against a person who was not involved in the acts broadcast on social media, unfortunately. The secrecy of the information does not allow for more information on this case. In addition to the facts behind these cases, the issue of the distribution of images on social networks and its implications, both in terms of the privacy of individuals and the functioning of justice, is again raised. Without deciding on the facts in question, the 48-hour period of arrest is used to conduct a supplementary investigation in order to ask the investigating judge for an informed arrest. Alternatives are possible, e.g. an expedited assignment. As far as your third question is concerned, I do not have the figures for these deprivations of liberty, as you are asking. I agree with you, of course, that deprivation of liberty is an exception to the constitutional principle of freedom to go and come and is strictly regulated by the law on preventive detention. Therefore, it cannot be treated lightly. This is primarily the responsibility of the deputy, the prosecutor and then the Attorney General. Finally, there are effective oversight bodies and mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u44	Minister, thank you, but you are not fully responding to my concerns. Of course, I agree with you that there has been a problem with the distribution of images, but in my view this does not mean that justice must take this into account when dealing with a case. Here, however, justice through the voice of the prosecutor herself says that this case was conducted because of the media rush. That's what I find intriguing. On the other hand, you indicate that this placing of the cyclist in a cell for one night would also be related to his protection. Yet in the same interview with the divisional attorney that I quoted from you, this one dismisses this argument. She says: "It is said that I would have wanted to do this to protect him from popular vindiction. That's not the case. That's the procedure." This brings me to your answer about the procedure. As I understand it, this is a judicial arrest of up to 48 hours. Here, it was made for reasons that are not at all those that should normally justify such an arrest. The prosecutor states that this arrest is made to allow administrative procedures that are not feasible at night. This does not appear to be linked to further investigation. I allow myself to keep all my concerns with regard to the handling of this case. I'll be very careful about the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u45	Madam President, Minister, under the previous legislature, the House of Representatives adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military employees of the German national socialist regime (the Nazi regime) during the Second World War. In 2017, there were still 2,800 beneficiaries in Belgium of an old-age pension paid by the German State. In May 2020, ten former employees continued to receive a pension paid in Belgium by the German State after their engagement in the Wehrmacht and, for one of them, even worse, in an SS division. The money is paid as compensation for personal injury incurred for taking up arms for Hitler. As we know, in our country, in order not to receive compensation from the German State, we must be considered a war criminal. Despite all the efforts that Germany has made since 1945, it is nevertheless true that only a part of thousands of potential war criminals have been prosecuted. This means, therefore, that today some still live in the most complete impunity and benefit from it to receive a pension from the German State. It is all the more troubling that in principle these people, who have sometimes been convicted in Belgium, should pay the amount of these compensation to the Belgian State, which does not seem to be the case. As the minister in charge of monitoring the judicial aspect of this resolution, can you confirm this information to me? Have the data on Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier, been communicated to the German federal government, as foreseen in the 2019 resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u46	Dear colleague, I have re-read the resolution dated 14 March 2019, which was therefore voted shortly before the elections. The resolution consists of four applications and a decision to set up a scientific commission to draw up a list of beneficiaries of such pensions. My colleague Philippe Goffin told you that, after the diplomatic mission in Berlin, the German Parliament had not yet obtained a majority in favour of setting up an independent commission. This was a response in relation to point 5. I carried out a check with my Justice services on request No. 2, which was to send to the authorities data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War and convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier. The data in question have not yet been transmitted to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia. So I asked my services to do so as quickly as possible. We intend to take on our responsibilities, and I will not hesitate to consult with my colleague from Foreign Affairs on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u47	Minister, thank you for the External Relations component. You took stock of the issue, and the follow-up was carried out by Minister Philippe Goffin – whom I thanked at the time. As a follow-up, although there is no follow-up at German level, the resolution still provides for the possibility of taking a decision at Belgian level in order to set up this scientific committee. With regard to the Justice component, I sincerely thank you for your frankness. Indeed, you note that the previous government did not respond to the request to transmit the list of persons convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration. I am stunned by the lack of response from the government at the time. I am deeply appalled because the situation is outrageous towards all the resistance and military, all the women and all the men who suffered and lost their lives for our freedoms during the Second World War. I thank you, because I know you, and I know that you will not let this issue stagnate, that you intend to continue the work of truth, justice and fairness. I think many people are counting on you, and they are right to do so because I am confident that you will do this job well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, first of all I would like to express my best wishes. I wish you a great deal of perseverance and perseverance in your difficult department, which is Justice. You know I will certainly follow it from the controlling power that is the Chamber. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, on 30 December the Belgian Official Journal published a grant decision for the Muslim executive. I understand that the Muslim executive gets an increased grant, grant or dot, I don't know what the exact word is. You have been critical of the functioning of the Muslim executive on several occasions. You have made important comments. Minister Geens promised a new approach. There has been a long discussion in the Swedish Government about the demand to go further with this subsidy. At that time it was decided to go to a new approach and to give the Muslim executive a new chance, because it was under regular attack in recent years. There were also critical audits and reports. What is the state of play regarding the renewed approach of and within the Muslim executive? Where are you with the improvement process? Can the Muslim executive be called representative? How is Muslim executive perceived by Muslims in Belgium? I wonder to what extent that body is seen as really the representative body on behalf of that religious community in our country. How much has the subsidy been in the last five years and why this increase? What tasks do you want to see the Muslim executive perform? What government plans are there for this representative Islam body in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u49	Thank you, Mr Francken, for the wishes and good courage you wish me. The Muslim executive has made an evaluation of its own operation. In the coming weeks I will discuss this evaluation and their own proposals for renewal with them. In addition, I will call on experts from the field to advise me on what improvements are appropriate. However, I must respect the separation of Church and State. I can lay down conditions for subsidies, but there too, the separation of Church and State must always be respected, as the Constitution requires. I'm getting signals that not all Muslims feel represented by the Muslim executive. I will enter into dialogue with the Muslim community on this. I will also be advised on this, in order to renew the Muslim executive. I also repeat my appeal to the Muslims in our country to stand up and cooperate in a modern and contemporary Muslim execution. In 2015, the operating grant to the Muslim executive amounted to 339,000 euros. In addition, that year they also received 120,000 euros for communication. That amount was used for the creation and development of a professional bilingual website. The executive also received 96.000 euros that year for the training of imams and Islamic consultants in prisons. This amount was used to cover, inter alia, operating costs and translation costs. In 2016, the operating grant amounted to 343.000 euros and the two additional grants from 2015 were also extended. In 2017, the grant amounted to 336,000 euros. In addition, the executive received a grant of EUR 179 000 to take action in the fight against radicalism and terrorism. That was the interdepartmental portfolio Terro of 179.000 euros. The end date for the use of that money was extended several times until 30 June 2019. In 2018, the grant amounted to 478,000 euros. In 2019 this was a grant of 468,000 euros. In 2020, the operating grant was €647,000. This is explained by the fact that the subsidy for the interdepartmental portfolio Terro of 179.000 euro was integrated into the operating grant. In addition, the executive also received 92,000 euros in 2020 for the civil training of ministers of the Islamic worship service AFOR. The 2021 budget law provides for a maximum operating grant of EUR 839 000. An increase in this subsidy compared to 2020 is explained by the inclusion of the subsidy for theological training. This is another part of the training for the servants of the Islamic worship service, with 192,000 euros in the operating grant of the executive. It is important to mention that both the grant for civil training and the grant for the theological training of Islamic worship ministers will be evaluated in June 2022. If the funds cannot be accounted for, for example because of a low number of students, part of the grant will have to be repaid. That applies to all subsidies, by the way. As for your final question, Article 3 of the 2016 Royal Decree lays down the tasks of the Executive. I quote: 'The Executive of the Muslims of Belgium has more specifically as assignments: the supervision of the management of the temporaries of the Islamic worship service, the appointment of officers of the worship service as well as the supervision of the Islamic communities which are part of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, the organisation of training and seminars for the servants of the worship service, the training of the Islamists as well as their designation; the supervision, the formation of Islam consultants and their appointment to the armed forces, the penal facilities, hospitals and rest and nursing homes, the organisation of religious broadcasts on radio and television, the Islamic parcels in public cemeteries'. The advice I will ask the experts for is, of course, also about this task package.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u50	Minister, I will have to add up the figures to know what exactly comes next, because they are a lot of different posts. In 2021, therefore, EUR 839 000 will be allocated, which is quite a lot of money. That has also increased considerably in recent years. Thank you very much for the figures, Minister. I understand that, as a liberal, you are not the biggest proponent of the fantastic financing of worship services and organisations that should represent the worship services. You have also been very critical very recently. I quote: "The same figures always show up, including the Muslim executive and related non-profit organisations." The tentacles of Morocco reach far in your opinion and prevent the development of an autonomous Islam in Belgium. You also said: "The Muslim executive should promote a progressive Islam that is compatible with our values of society, but only men are in it and there is not yet any representativeness of the different language communities." I quote: "There is also, according to the Minister, a problem with the non-profit organisation set up by the executive to develop imam training. There was a need for training, but it is once again in the grip of the same non-profit organisations with the same problems. The same figures have been popping up all the time for years." Those are heavy accusing words towards the Muslim executive and the non-profit organisations around them. You are now saying that there will be a report on which you will be working at the end of January. You say that it should be better and that it will be followed up further. I'll do that with you. I also understand that you are making this a point of attention and that you want to do something about it as a policy-maker. We in Parliament, as a supervisory authority, will be able to follow that up. I wish you every success in that. Mr Geens and many other predecessors have bit their teeth on it, but they may be able to do so now. We'll wait and see. I would like to say one more thing about our dispute about subsidies to the Islamic thing, which I do not think is correct. I was wrong, you didn't sign it, I changed it, too. I apologize for that. That wasn't a proper representation. The point remains, of course, that I wonder why the government is funding this. I'll take it up with the Secretary of State. I think it's interesting that our security services have a good look at that. You said in plenary that we cannot tolerate this and that we must always fight against racism and discrimination, but also against Islamism. For me, that hand goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u51	I appreciate the apology. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u52	Mr Minister, in an earlier answer to an oral question, your predecessor confirmed that an investigation was effectively launched by the Central Office for Combating Corruption (CDBC) in the police department on the award of 15 million mouth masks to the Luxembourg company Avrox. According to the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws from earlier this week, the reference Avrox gave to another government of 1 million mouth masks would be wrong at all. Of course, I respect the secret nature of the investigation and I also understand that you should not disclose any specific elements. Nevertheless, I have a number of general questions about the state of this investigation. Is the investigation still ongoing or has it been completed? If it is completed, what is the next step? If the investigation is still ongoing, what stage is it at? Were there any investigative actions, e.g. house searches or interrogations? How many people were questioned? If none of those actions were made, why not? From my information I also know that several parties who have complained themselves in this case have contacted the CDBC, but have not been answered or invited to a conversation. Why is that? Are there any other elements you can make public? Finally, you put on a mouth mask in Kortrijk Cowboy Henk at the beginning of the pandemic. It would be interesting to know whether we are dealing here with cowboys as well, such as that company from Luxembourg that used these masks, or whether these are Indian stories.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u53	Thank you, Mr Freilich, for your question. Cowboy Henk is a sympathetic cowboy who has not only roots in Kortrijk, but also in Ostend, and can also be read in Humo. I'm gonna have to disappoint you. They're interesting questions. I was hoping I could give you an answer, but I have to tell you quite frankly that the investigation is currently under way. You know I can't communicate about that. I apologize for that, but that's the way it is. When the investigation is over, I will be able to provide you with more information. That's how it works, you probably know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u54	I take note of that. You replied to one question. The investigation is still ongoing. It's not finished yet. I suggest I ask the same question again in two months' time. I hope that will give us more clarity. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u55	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to express my best wishes. I now have three questions on the agenda. I always refer to the question as I have put it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u56	Madam President, Mr Segers, of course I also wish you every success, both in your parliamentary work and in your family life. I would also like to thank you for your commitment in a number of very specific dossiers. Mr Segers, on the Essex case, I would like to begin by expressing a number of considerations, since the matter is not frivolous. First of all, 39 people have been killed in a file of human trafficking with a horrible outcome. You have asked many questions about this to my predecessor, to whom answers have been received, often in detail, as it should be, since that is the essence of parliamentary control. The answers have determined your conviction, namely that the Brussels court has made mistakes. You also shared this conviction with the press, namely that the Brussels parquet had information about these two young people and that it should have acted on the basis of that information. The Brussels parquet is of a different opinion. It examined the facts internally and considered that the magistrate in question had not acted lightly. As the Minister responsible, I cannot and must not judge at the moment, which you do understand. So I cannot say whether your decision is concerned with Hindsight bias, the judgment with knowledge after the facts, but whether the court should have acted effectively differently. I do know there's another investigation in progress, a judicial investigation into the deaths of the 39 victims. You realize I want to give that investigation every opportunity. Since that investigation is still ongoing, I have to protect it, which I'm sure you understand. With that consideration in mind, I will try to answer your questions. Your questions are based on a certain conviction, as outlined, but I must remain neutral at the moment. So I don't want to go in the countermine. What I am asking is for this dossier to be taken seriously, especially since the dossier should guide the evaluation of the relevant COL, in particular the COL 13/2018 on trafficking in human beings. The evaluation is currently under preparation and will give rise to a number of round tables in spring this year. This will enable lessons to be learned and, if necessary, to be adjusted. I refer specifically to questions. 2 and 3 of your text, which are quite clear. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 4 appears relevant to evaluate and, where appropriate, adjust that COL. Trafficking in human beings and smuggling in human beings will be given the necessary priority, in accordance with the coalition agreement and in accordance with my policy statement. I have already taken the necessary initiatives to re-establish the Inter-departmental Coordination Cell on Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking in Human Beings. You can count on me for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. I look forward to that evaluation and adjustments. I am always a little surprised that the Brussels parquet says that no mistakes have been made, because in an earlier reply it acknowledged that, for example, the Voogdij and the reference street were not informed. I wanted to know what lessons were learned from this. I am surprised that a step backwards has now been taken, while it has already recognised that certain things have gone wrong. I guess I'm a little worried. In particular, I do not want a second case of Essex to be needed before lessons are drawn that we can already draw. However, I welcome the commitment to evaluate. I also want to put my shoulders under it, to make the perfect playbook for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u58	Mr Segers, my cabinet has read Myria's detailed report and we are currently examining with the administration what recommendations we can make in what way. As for your question about the increase in the number of files, today the Public Prosecutor does not have an IT tool that can be operational in a very short time to answer such questions. Analysts must design a formula for extracting the relevant data from the computer system, then extract it from the computer system and finally validate the results obtained, which is impossible, as your question was submitted on 4 January. I would ask you to send me a written question on this and I will reply to it. On this basis, the number of dismissals cannot be assessed in relation to the number of notifications or the precise reasons for the dismissal for technical reasons. As far as your second question on the increase in the number of dismissals is concerned, trafficking in human beings is a phenomenon which is becoming increasingly widespread in awareness-raising campaigns, both for specific services, such as schools, hospitals and financial services, and for the general public, with the result that the number of notifications based on the current indicators recorded by non-specialized services or persons has increased the number of cases of dismissal. It is also worth reminding that the 2015 circular criminal policy provides researchers with a research framework and recommends that all research methods, including special research methods, be used in the research. The attention of the reference office for trafficking in human beings in each parquet is specifically drawn to the importance of identifying victims of reported cases of trafficking as soon as possible. Trafficking in human beings is usually a hidden phenomenon and the victims' statements are crucial to establishing the reality of the infringements. It is therefore not primarily a question of more resources, but of having specialised staff in the police and the police in order to be able to make the right assessment immediately and to make the right investigations. Finally, it should be noted that the offence of trafficking in human beings relates to acts usually seen in the light of other related offences, such as sexual exploitation, non-payment of wages or employment of foreign workers in an illegal situation, the constituent elements of which can easily be determined by a magistrate in order to have the perpetrators convicted. For the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings there are three specialised reception centres that have continued to work, but with adjustments to their working methods, taking into account corona. They remained accessible 24 hours a day, but during a certain period they reduced the physical presence of their employees on the premises. The period in which such work was carried out was different from one center to another. During this period, reports of potential new victims were preferably treated by telephone or video call. When that was possible again, they were physically accessible again. The reception was then adapted to this new reality, which no longer took place directly at the reception centre, in order to avoid the risk of spreading the virus among the persons already housed there. Alternative housing solutions via the network of the centres, e.g. reception structures for migrants and social services, were set up within the limits of the corona prevention measures. During the lockdowns, centres continued to receive reports of potential victims. So they didn't refuse any registration or admission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. There will certainly be a written question, because it is important that we carefully examine the reasons for dismissal with this remarkably rising percentage. After all, we know that we only see the tip of the iceberg when it comes to trafficking in human beings. The fight against trafficking in human beings is an absolute policy priority in the coalition agreement, so we must not lose any chance of ending situations of extreme exploitation and dismantling any networks. I am very curious to hear the answer to the written question I will put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u60	Madam President, Mr Segers, trafficking in human beings is indeed one of the most serious crimes. In reply to your first question, I must point out that the recommendation of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office's reference office, as mentioned in your question, is in line with the priorities of criminal law policy set out in circular 1/2015 of the College of Attorneys General. In other words, there can be no derogation from that. With regard to the Antwerp parquet, it should be noted that no other or additional directives were issued on the control of prostitution or trafficking in human beings following the coronapandemic. The closure of window prostitution premises has, of course, led to a reduction in the number of sex workers under supervision, but also to greater attention for sex workers receiving their customers at home or providing escort services. The local police of Antwerp, responsible for a large part of the reports and findings in the district, have been organising regular checks on so-called home visits and escorts for a long time. The aim is to identify possible situations of exploitation, report existing help to sex workers and provide them with the contact details of the prostitution team. During the first months of the lockdown, these controls were temporarily suspended due to the risks to public health that are difficult to estimate. The checks were then resumed, informing the controlled sex workers of the applicable measures to protect against corona or sanctioned in the event of repeated violations of these measures. Until now, these controls have been carried out at the same frequency as for the corona pandemic. There will always be an investigation when reporting possible situations of exploitation or reporting of criminal offences in the field of trafficking in human beings, regardless of the corona measures in force. Then I come to your second and third questions. Although the centres still receive reports of potential victims during lockdowns, it should be noted that there were fewer reports than usual. It is true that police controls were influenced by the corona crisis. As a result of the lockdowns, prostitution activities have also become more illegal and more use is made of the Internet, making the identification of cases of sexual exploitation more complex. The usual checks were resumed after the first lockdown, but the control services also need to adapt to the situation. Capacity is also needed to ensure compliance with the corona measures. During the lockdown, the Office of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell for Combating Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings continued the exchange of information with its members. It also continued to be aware of problems on the ground. Similar effects to the first lockdown are currently observed with respect to the victim's identification. Within the Bureau, it remained possible to address specific issues. In operational terms, however, capacity remains dependent on the checks also carried out in the context of corona. In the long term, it is generally important to invest in capacity for police investigation on the Internet. Because of the corona crisis, there has been a rapid reorganisation of criminal activities towards the medium. I am sure that will continue to be the case in the future. In addition, a new National Action Plan on Trafficking in Human Beings is being developed at the level of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell. As in recent years, initiatives will be developed to improve the fight against trafficking in human beings. Work will also continue at Community level on the exploitation of minors. At the level of the French and Flemish Community, there are two working groups aimed at facilitating the detection of minor victims of all forms of trafficking in human beings by improving the interaction between youth services and other actors, for example the reference magistrates and the specialised centres for the reception and supervision of victims of trafficking in human beings. Finally, we will also reform sexual criminal law. The focus will be on combating the sexual exploitation of minors, by focusing a separate chapter on the issue, with also stricter penalties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u61	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u62	Madam President, Minister, in February 2018, the promising Power Plan was presented, which focuses on the fight against drug smuggling through the port of Antwerp. In the meantime, we're almost three years away. In the field of justice, a lot of work remains to be done to complete the Power Plan. You announced a number of things about this in De Tijd of 9 December. In it, you spoke, among other things, of port attorneys and a port ban as an autonomous sentence. I questioned your predecessor, Mr Geens, on several occasions, the last time in September. In his reply, he kept saying that the port attorneys had already been appointed. We also understood that without a constitutional change it would not be possible to bring port crime under the jurisdiction of one court, in this case the court of Antwerp. Mr Minister, in the article of 9 December, you say that from the beginning of 2021 port lawyers will be employed, while Mr Geens has said that port lawyers have been appointed for quite some time. How are we supposed to interpret this? Didn't they do anything yet? What's new about your announcement? Was your predecessor wrong? Will the court of Antwerp be able to try crimes committed in the East Flemish part of the port without constitutional change? How do you intend to make that possible? In the article there was a legal instinct. Are you considering begging for a role in the federal prosecutor's office, which was set up to deal with cross-arrondissement cases? Do you foresee additional magistrates who will focus solely on port crime? How do you see the practical effect of the port ban as an autonomous punishment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u63	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, panta heri. Everything is flowing and certainly the Power Plan. You know that in our policy statement I explained in detail the Power Plan XXL, the strengthening of the existing Power Plan. I have already said it and I repeat it: with the people and the resources available, the services concerned in Antwerp and far beyond are achieving remarkable results in the fight against cocaine crime. Yesterday the figures of the amount of cocaine seized were known: 65 tonnes, another sad record. We discussed my policy statement in detail. You have established that I will not reinvent the hot water. In 2018, the Stroomplan was put into operation. This has now been evaluated on a scientific basis. On the basis of that evaluation, we will continue to work. What are we gonna do? First of all, we will make a substantial effort on additional people and resources for the FGP, not least for the FGP Antwerp. At the end of last year, following the call of the new DirJud of Antwerp, a major recruitment campaign was launched for the FGP Antwerp. In December 325 places were declared vacant for the DGJ, including 277 operational people, including 35 specialist inspectors and 48 CALog people. I hope you've also seen the accompanying video. The functions at the FGP will and can not be filled tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. We do want to go there, and we will not let go of that ambition. The government has finally appointed the new Director-General, in particular Mr Snoeck. His appointment was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 31 December 2020. He will take his oath next Friday in the hands of colleague Verlinden and myself. What's different? The port attorney will take control more than he did before. The evaluation showed that too little was directed. That was one of the pain points in the original Power Plan. In terms of flow of information and operational arrangements, therefore, much more will be done with the field services. So we want to make a quadrangle of the FGP, the Shipping Police, customs and local police. Was my colleague wrong? Of course not. How else would I dare say that? I suppose, however, that you expect a Minister of Justice not to sit down until the Constitution is amended to that effect. There are other possibilities in this area that better regulate the direction between Linkeroever, i.e. parquet Dendermonde, and Right Bank, i.e. parquet Antwerp, without the need to change the Constitution. Also for a ship that eventually docks in Linkeroever, and thus in the arrondissement of Dendermonde, there are connecting points with Right Bank, and thus the arrondissement of Antwerp. I'm not considering letting the federal prosecutor play a role. The federal court plays a role under the law and the rules in force, including in the issues raised, including the desire for international cooperation. No one will deny the expertise of the federal prosecutor in this matter. We could really use that expertise in this international issue. With the college of the seat, we are currently looking at how we can distribute the additional budgets. It is clear that the Antwerp and the port will not be forgotten. For your last question, I refer to my answer to Mrs Dillen's question. A port ban should be possible as an autonomous punishment by the court of the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u64	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am aware that in Antwerp, records have been broken over the past year. I've been talking to people on the premises before. I know one of the customs officers, so I'll find out how it works there. Unfortunately, I also hear that it is only the tip of the iceberg, no matter how well they do and I also know the circumstances in which they do so. I only welcome the rapid acceleration of the Power Plan. Indeed, the people on the ground deserve more power in order to sustain that almost impossible battle and perhaps someday to bring it to a successful conclusion. That's what we have to assume. You say there's been a whole recruitment campaign started with vacant statements. But I do not need to repeat to you how difficult it is to fill vacancies; I am thumbing with you. I'm happy with that campaign and I hope they succeed. It is a very important first step, but you know as well as I do that it is not evident. You say the harbor attorney will take control more than he did in the past. Are they new? Were they working yet? It remains a very difficult aspect for me. I know that previous dockers were appointed, but they also did other tasks. Will they now be exclusively engaged in this or will they have to do other tasks? That's important to know how big the focus can be. You're not gonna wait for a constitutional change. I understand that you want to move forward, and I'm happy about that, too. You will also find leads between the Left and the Right Bank. I wonder how that will be legally possible. I can imagine a few things. You do not light a hint of the veil, but that is not always evident in the context of the localization of the crime. I look forward to it. I also welcome the fact that there will be an additional budget, which will be allocated to Antwerp. We are waiting for budgetary control in March. I have noted that the port ban may be imposed as an autonomous penalty by the court of the ground. I assume that there will probably also be a legislative initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u65	Madam President, it is strange that my question was not merged with the question that Mrs Gabriels asked earlier. Mr. Secretary, you know that I am concerned about parole or interruptions for the sake of corona. In the newspaper we could read that sometimes something goes wrong. More specifically, it was about a relatively young thief who spent 13 years in jail for a lot of heavy thefts. He was released early by the policy choice in the context of the corona crisis. A few weeks later, he was arrested for new thefts. I'm already glad he shouldn't be counted among the 10 fugitives, since he was arrested. However, it was someone who already had a great deal of work to do and who has now committed new facts. If I may believe the newspaper, the prosecutor has made it very clear that he was actually struck by the fact that someone with such a palmares was released. So, Minister, I have a few questions. Do you know how many prisoners were released early for corona and used it to commit crimes again? In this case, it was clearly an incorrigible recidivist who was in jail for serious facts. Are you planning an update to make early releases more critical and not just release everyone near their end of sentence almost automatically? In addition to the fortunately already excluded crimes, could you, for example, also exclude recidivists from this favor regime? Perhaps an adjustment can be made, as we have seen in the facts that everything is not so obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u66	Mrs De Wit, you asked about the number of prisoners who have been released early and who have again committed crimes. At the first corona wave, 221 prisoners were able to enjoy an accompanying release. Of these, 10 new facts have taken place, including the thirty-five-year-old you mentioned. During the second wave, 135 prisoners were able to enjoy early release. In the meantime, none of them were locked up again because of new facts. You also asked for an adjustment. During the first wave, certain convicts were excluded from early release. These were people who were sentenced to more than 10 years' sentences, people convicted of terrorist crimes and people convicted of crimes of vice. Subsequently, the criteria were strengthened, which meant that those convicted who were posted and those convicted who were not entitled to stay were no longer eligible. There is also the circular 1822 under the recent Corona Act, which provides for an additional exclusion, in particular of those convicted by the OCAD. Those are entanglements that we have implemented. You ask me if I intend to change the terms. You know, Mrs De Wit, that we discussed the intertwined conditions three weeks ago. I did not see any amendments on this at the time, from any majority or opposition party. I therefore do not intend to change the conditions at the moment. Firstly, because it concerns prisoners at 6 months before the end of their sentence, which will soon be released. Secondly, and above all, because we are currently talking about 10 cases, out of a total of 356 prisoners, as you can see from the figures. In view of the recent approximation of legislation and the figures put in perspective, I do not think that a new adjustment is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u67	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Indeed, we had that debate not long ago. I think it's funny that you say you didn't see an amendment. We were simply against the principle of tout court. You know that, too. We're worried about what happened. Even if you say that the facts are not of that nature to change your mind and that fortunately there are not so many, I believe that there are too many. We must take into account the reaction of the prosecutor, who said at a hearing that he did not understand it and that it hits his chest. We must keep everyone on board, every actor within that chain. It is often investigated. People are trying their best to prosecute and condemn someone. As you point out, it is sometimes hard to believe that, because of a health crisis, favor measures are being followed, not by good behaviour, but by an external factor such as corona, however serious it may be and whatever consequences it may have within the prison walls. I think it's a missed opportunity. I believe that we should be very careful about this. If it turns out that there are even more misbehaviours in the 135 and 221, then you should reconsider the situation. If necessary, we will take an initiative ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u68	Madam President, Minister, it may be slightly lighter occasionally, although I am not sure how lightly this subject is. In recent months, we have talked a lot about privacy, including in the context of maintaining the corona measures. This involves the balloon that was embarrassed to count the number of pizza boxes to drones above the houses. Recently, I read that the right to privacy doesn't stop at corona. Nowadays, cameras are also sold to hang from the pet, which are available online for 50 euros. Some come up with the idea of putting a camera around their cat, which also means filming in other people's gardens, potentially violating the privacy of the neighbors. Mr. Secretary, are the sale and possession of such cameras just allowed? If so, on what basis and under what conditions? Is there legislation on the use of such cameras? Is the legislation on the use of drones, for example, also applicable to those pet cameras? Have any convictions already been expressed against animal friends who have fitted their pet with a camera, which may have deliberately violated the privacy of others?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u69	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, you are asking whether the sale of such cameras is permitted. Well, the sale of cameras and photo cameras is allowed in Europe, so also in our country. Suppose someone ties their cell phones to their cat to film, which doesn't prohibit the sale of cell phones. At least I hope that is not the point of your question. We live in a free country and can be sold freely, thank goodness. Let us keep it that way. That does not mean that these cameras are not subject to legislation. As long as the cat walks around at home with the cell phone or camera around the neck, it can and then can be filmed as much as the owner wants. However, if the cat goes out with the camera, for example on the street, then the camera at the cat is subject to the law of March 21, 2007, the so-called camera law. In order to keep it light, I suggest that you ask my colleague Verlinden this question, since I do not want to deprive my colleague of his authority. You're also asking a question about aircraft. With my limited knowledge, I think I can say that there is a distinction between a cat and an aircraft. Although cats seem to be able to fly, I do not think the regulation would apply. Even now, to keep it light, when a cat would turn into a drone, you can ask my colleague Gilkinet, responsible for Mobility. In the meantime, the question of whether there has already been a condemnation of cameras in cats is a matter for me. As far as I know, that is not the case. I may, of course, be wrong, but as far as I know, there has been no judicial ruling so far. If that were the case, it would of course be up to the legislator and Parliament. So far, some light answers to your light-hearted question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. We do live in a free country and I do not need to change anything about it, but I am aware that when you hang a camera, there are rules to it, regardless of whether it is on a pet or not. I will not rest my cat with a camera and I will not ask the question to Minister Verlinden. Imagine if she thought it was legal, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u71	Madam President, Minister, first of all my best wishes for this new year, which I am sure will be better. Until recently, the various SPFs published a complete directory of their staff in accordance with article 80 of the Royal Decree of 7 August 1939 organizing the assessment and career of State agents. This directory is a precise document containing the administrative data of the agent and allows everyone to check their place in the hierarchy and hence their rights to the career. Today it appears that several FPS, including the Justice FPS, have decided, without consultation and with no reference to their minister, to terminate this publication. It is up to me that, in the SPF Justice, the directory would no longer be carried out because of its "untimely", despite the fact that the Minister of the Public Service had notified an instruction to all the presidents of the SPF Steering Committees on 19 June 2020 in the direction of the publication of this directory and stressed its usefulness. Therefore, Minister, do you intend to ask your administration to comply with section 80 of the above-mentioned Royal Order and with the instruction of the Minister of the Public Service of 19 June 2020 in order to re-establish the publication of the Personnel Directory? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u72	Mrs Rohonyi, I also wish you all the best. The FPS Justice informs me that the directory has not been completed in recent years because it no longer responds to the request. The system of career progression is no longer linked to seniority or quotas, but to the evaluation cycle and the opening of posts through promotion at the higher or higher levels. However, the FPS Justice must comply with the legal obligation and a request was made to PersoPoint to prepare a report containing the data to be found in this directory. This report has been provided and is currently being processed. Data verification is under way. The FPS Justice informs me that it will be able to present a directory again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u73	Minister, thank you. I understand that there is a certain obligation to establish certain data relating to agents of the State. You're telling me it'll be done later this year. Can you tell me if this regularity is, itself, mandatory? There is an obligation to establish certain data, but as for temporality, is it mandatory every year? What is the term within which this must be done? This question remains open. In any case, I think it is important to have a directory, or no matter what it is called, that allows state agents to know their rights, even though I understand that in the meantime things have evolved and that a career depends more on their assessment today. In addition to this usefulness for public officials, this allows the public administration to benefit from a certain degree of transparency at the administrative level. This would make it possible to have real confidence in what is being done in this same administration. For me, there's a double stake that it's important to have in mind about the need for a directory or whatever the name of that tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u74	Madam President, Minister, France took drastic measures following the third murder of teacher Samuel Paty. About 50 organizations were banned. I have the next short, but very important questions. Have there been any contacts with the French security services following this decision? If so, which one? If no, why not? What links do these 50 organisations have with Belgium? Has that been mapped yet? If so, can you email me that? It would take us too far to explain this here. Does the Belgian Government intend to carry out a similar operation against Islamism and the Muslim Brotherhood? I am in the process of building up a dossier myself, and these answers could help me greatly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u75	Madam President, Mr Metsu, you are asking if there are any contacts with the French security services. Of course, I cannot go into detail, but I can tell you that, on the basis of the organic law of 1998, we are working closely with foreign intelligence and security services, including, of course, the French. That's obvious. I had contact with the French ambassador immediately after the attack on Mr Paty and also had a meeting with my French colleague, Éric Dupond-Moretti. Of course, this consultation dealt with the issue of terrorism and policy in this area. What links do these 50 organizations have with our country? Press releases are always interesting. They say things, but they have to find out what the truth is. In the press release, 51 organisations were investigated by the French authorities. Eventually, our State Security has knowledge of 5 organizations that were effectively dissolved or closed down. It concerns the collection of Cheikh Yassine, BarakaCity, the Grey Wolves, the Collectif contre l'islamophobie and France and the Great Mosque of Pantin. If we take the example of the Grey Wolves, advice from our security services shows that there is no concrete threat from them in Belgium. I was also questioned about this earlier in the committee. So we must not equate the French situation with the Belgian situation. This is just an example of how our security services do what they have to do, namely to ensure that there is no terrorism, extremism, espionage and interference. As you know, I cannot discuss the work of the intelligence services here in extreme terms. What I can tell you is that, until further notice, I have not received any information from our intelligence and security services indicating links in this respect. Then there is the question of a similar operation. I think you know my answer. We have a Constitution in Belgium, which we respect. We do not have the constitutional tradition, nor do we have the legislation to outlaw groups. Groups such as Blood, Soil, Honor and Trouw, the Grey Wolves, Sharia4Belgium outside the law are seen by our legislator as too far-reaching a restriction of the constitutional right to freedom of association and assembly. Which does not mean that we do, of course, have security services that act against the members of such groups when they commit crimes. Then we prosecute them and confiscate objects and any profits. I am thinking of what we have done with the individual members of Sharia4Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u76	Thank you, this indeed helps me a lot further. You mentioned the Grey Wolves. You say that there is no danger of them at the moment. That is such a typical Belgian reflection: first there must be a danger, first something must be done, and then we will intervene. You mentioned the CCIF as one of the five organisations that have been dissolved there. There is an inseparable link with the CCIB. We have been able to demonstrate this in the last few days. We will go into this much more deeply, I can tell you that already. When it rains in Paris, it drips in Brussels. That's a bit of a boltade, but it is. I note that you say that we do not have the tradition of outlawing groups and that this is too far-reaching a restriction on freedom of expression and so on. That is the freedom of speech that I attach very high importance to. But of course there are limits to everything. That's the way it is in life. To be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u77	It's 5:00, so we need to end our meeting here. The Members who have not been discussed today will be able to ask their questions next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u78	Madam Chair, to make it simple, can I refer to my written question and receive the answer by e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u79	Mr Boukili, that is a joint question with Mrs De Wit. Mrs. De Wit, can she be converted for you, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u80	Madam President, I can do this for this question. I hope that the health of the people in prison is getting a little better in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic324x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili and Mr No 55012029C Mrs De Wit's 55012034C will be converted into written questions.
