ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u1	A few weeks ago, we had a fairly general debate in our committee on patients with Crohn's disease. The immediate reason was that some of us had experienced a day in a patient's life with Crohn's disease. You did not go into the more specific questions raised by my colleague, Laurence Hennuy, about the shortage of a number of medicines. Meanwhile, we are getting disturbing reports that the deficit is greater and more persistent than we could estimate then, because patients regularly get the message from the pharmacist that their much-needed medication is not available. According to the Professor Ferrante you may know, there is enough medication available to Belgian wholesalers, but for some reason it is not possible to get it to the right patients. Therefore, a thorough investigation by the FAGG is requested. Do you know the reason for the unavailability? How come the patients can't get their medication? What can and will you do about it? Can you confirm that an investigation has indeed started at the FAGG? What timing do you have in mind? Will there be intensive consultation with the patient associations? After all, the problem continues to drag on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u2	There is no need to repeat the whole explanation, as Mrs Creemers has done excellently. My questions are in line. Mr President, are you aware of the inaccessibility of the medicines in question? Are you also aware of the request to investigate the FAGG? What will you do to solve the problem? Can the IBD patients count on you to take the matter to heart? Will you not only support the research by the FAGG but also encourage it, so that it is done thoroughly and the potential problems at wholesalers are resolved for the benefit of the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u3	Mr President, Minister, this is not a new situation. I have tabled several questions on this subject in recent months. It is our responsibility to continue the shortage of basic medicines for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. As these specialties are essential for patients to live in better conditions, these shortages can have a serious impact on their daily lives. A very special situation when Questran, a medicine used in the treatment given after certain types of intestinal removal, would no longer be available in our territory for two years, apparently due to shortages of components of this drug product. In addition, the marketing of mesalamine enema (Salofalk, Pentasa) has been discontinued. This would mean that currently only the Colitofalk 2g is available on the market, which could pose supply difficulties. Patients' associations and professional organisations are again sounding the alarm. Patients with MICI are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain their medicines. According to them, subcutaneous biological therapies are delivered in sufficient quantities to our territory. However, it appears that pharmacies are unable to deliver them to patients, which is why they have requested a survey from the AFMPS. Minister, do you confirm this situation? Are shortages currently being observed? Do you know the causes? Could you provide us with an update on the availability and effective accessibility of these medicines and products for patients? Do you observe any differences between our country and the other European states regarding these specialties? If so, why? What measures are being taken and can still be taken to remedy these unavailabilitys and marketing stops? In view of the mandatory time limit for information by the firm that ceases marketing, what steps have been taken to supplement it? Following the request of the patient associations, do you confirm that an investigation has been carried out at the AFMPS level? What are the conclusions? Finally, more generally, apart from the shortage situation, what new avenues and measures are envisaged by the Department of Health in collaboration with scientific experts to improve the quality of life of patients with MICI?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u4	Minister, I will not go back to the whole issue. It is known that this lack and shortage have disastrous consequences for patients, both in terms of their symptoms and in terms of their quality of life. Minister, how can we explain this shortage of essential drugs for patients with these diseases? What measures can be envisaged to address this problem? Are there alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u5	Minister, I have already asked you about the problem of the accessibility of a whole series of treatments for patients with HBCR or Crohn's disease. At that time, you said, "Everything is fine, Madame Marquise." I wasn't happy at all. I told you I'd come back to the charge. In the meantime, I learned that meetings had been held. I therefore thought that it would be better to wait to see if the situation was changing positively and whether contacts with the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) would lead to positive notes. However, there is a real problem with the availability of certain treatments for patients with these diseases. Nevertheless, these treatments are essential, as there is no plan B for these patients! On the other hand, I am struck to hear your services regularly say that there is no unavailability for any medication, such as Stelara, while dozens of patients have had difficulty obtaining this medication in 2020. I have no details of this dissonance between patients and your services, but you have been aware of the situation for several months, and it is now imperative to plan specific actions for the patients concerned. I could give you other examples such as Questran or enemas that are essential for patients because they are not marketed in Belgium. I could also refer you to the professionals who care for these patients, such as Professor Ferrante of the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL). It is now vital that we take effective action. If necessary, bring together all the players, the patients, the healthcare professionals involved, the pharmaceutical companies that market these vital drugs for patients and the AFMPS, in order to find solutions as soon as possible, as this is really a major issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the problem of treating IBD patients is actually very broad, but it is rather narrowed down to a few types of medicines. We are talking about Stelara, which is very expensive, but cheaper with us than in the neighbouring countries. We are talking about the TNF inhibitors, which have always been a problem with quotas, and we are talking about the cheaper drugs, the mesalazines, which the FAGG says is not always so big, but where in the sector there has been a constant problem for years to give patients their medicines on a frequent basis. This also applies to Questran, which is currently available through the derogation agreed. For once, the patient will not suffer. I would remind you that patients have been paying an additional price for Questran for years because it has to be imported by the pharmacist. A number of colleagues are asking for a study by the FAGG, but I would like to ask you a lot more. Firstly, at the moment more than a thousand specialities are not available. On 19 December 2020, we adopted a law aimed at reducing drug shortages. I've asked you about it before. The Royal Implementing Decree is absolutely necessary, and so are those patients who need, for example, mesalazine. The procedure for restricting the export of the medicinal products should be established by means of an RB. Have you already done that and, if not, when will you do that? The problem of Stelara, Questran and the TNF inhibitors is linked to the quota system and to the obligation of wholesalers and licence holders to supply the needs for the Belgian market within three days. As long as it is not being worked on and as long as this implementing act is not in order, we will have no solution. A second element which I have already pointed out to you, Minister, is the race to the bottom on the prices of medicines. I am absolutely in favour of orthodoxy and hygiene around the prices of medicines, but sometimes we must also dare to consult the producers. After all, what happens now? Colitofalk has taken the 4 grams off the market, but is now going to submit a new procedure to the FAGG, because there are no alternatives. For example, there is actually a bit of a game played between the pharmaceutical producers, the FAGG and the RIZIV. There's only one side of it, the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u7	Mrs. Depoorter, you need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u8	Mr President, I will conclude, but it is really an important point. We have passed the law. All we need is an implementing act. That is why there are six points that you, Minister, still have to work on. Then we can move forward and ensure that the availability of medicines increases. At the same time, we must consider cheap medicines, which must remain cheap, but must also remain available to our patients. I have one final point, Minister, which is a bit technical: patients with IBD are breaking down medicines. They need more than RIZIV allows. By amending the law, these free medicines can no longer be requested by the nurses of the centres for the treatment of IBD, but the doctors must do so. It is a very small technical adjustment. Are you prepared to make that adjustment so that this is also feasible for the doctors and nurses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u9	Mr President, Minister, colleagues have already explained that there is a shortage of medication for people with ulcerative colitis. The background to this story smells like profit-seeking, which is more often the subject of conversation in this Health Committee. The patients are ultimately the victims of this profit, while the rights of patients are not being considered. This way, patients will be without medication. In this sense, I am in favour of concrete answers in these specific cases. As it concerns a very precise number of deficit dossiers, I am not waiting for vague answers on what is going on. Minister, what are you or the FAGG doing specifically to try to solve this? As Mrs Depoorter said, Stelara is cheaper in our country than in Germany, for example, but it still costs EUR 2,900. Is it exported to our neighbouring countries or not? Exporters have just emailed us to say that it is not their fault and that they have not exported the product. However, a letter from Janssen-Cilag of November 2020 shows that pharmacists were proposed to order directly from the producer. These are practices to make extra profit on those drugs. The mesalazine is available in different forms in our country. Have you discussed that? It is older medication, but normally every producer who markets a medicine must ensure that it is also on the market. What about the investigation? The same question applies to Questran. Some companies sometimes take medication off the market. That is the case, for example, with Colitofalk. What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u10	Mr. Secretary, given the multitude of questions, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u11	Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing some of the facts that I received from the FAGG. That's a little repetition, but still. No unavailability has currently been reported for the subcutaneous biological therapies. The FAGG says that there have been hardly any deficits there in recent months. There are indeed regular problems with the availability of Questran and medicinal products based on mesalazine. Questran was reported unavailable from 14 September 2020 to 31 March 2021 due to increased demand. I think Mrs Depoorter has already referred to it. The FAGG has meanwhile granted the company a derogation for imports from abroad. The foreign packaging is currently available at the pharmacist's premises, with information in the three national languages and with the same methods of reimbursement. The company has taken steps to improve long-term availability. The addition of a new manufacturer was accepted at the beginning of November 2020. As a result, the production of the active substance cholestyramine will be higher and a more continuous supply can be ensured. In the past, a derogation for the company's influence was often not possible and the only solution for the unavailability of imports by the pharmacist under Article 105 was based on a prescription and doctor's certificate. This procedure is usually accompanied by additional costs for the patient, as no reimbursement is provided for and the import costs have to be paid. Together with the RIZIV, work will be done on the KB to compensate the pharmaceutical industry for the additional costs. I am sorry that I cannot be more precise now, but I do not have any more precise information at the moment. Mesalazine Teva 500 mg was reported unavailable from 4 May 2020 to 15 March 2021 due to a delay in production. Alternatives are possible. Colitofalk 500 mg was reported unavailable from 24 December 2020 until 31 January 2021, also due to a delay in production. Colitofalk 2 g was reported unavailable from 16 October 2020 to 15 February 2021 due to increased demand. However, this is a consequence of the cessation of commercialization of Pentasa 1 g and Colitofalk 4 g. A derogation for imports has been approved by the company. Foreign packaging is currently available on the Belgian market. The marketing authorisation for Colitofalk 4 g was deleted on 3 November 2020. The company, Dr. Falk Pharma Benelux B.V., has proposed to revise the deletion of its product Colitofalk 4 g. In the meantime, the FAGG has reversed the deletion. The company will apply again for a price and refund at the beginning of 2021. This is, of course, very annoying, because it takes a lot of time. They hope to have the product back on the market by the end of 2021. We're not alone, but that's a very lean consolation. Some other European countries also have availability problems around Questran. We do not have any information on the availability of medicinal products based on mesalazine or on subcutaneous biological therapies in other countries. I confirm that an investigation is ongoing at the FAGG, but the results are not yet known. We take all the steps as laid down in the decision tree, which applies here. We put the patient's best interests first. The FAGG tells me that they have worked well across-the-board with the other services to find solutions. The FAGG is also in contact with patient organisations. My administration received the open letter and informed Dr. Ferrante about the unavailability of these medicines and possible solutions for the patient. In general, the FAGG tries to work on preventive measures in the Working Group on Inaccessibility in order to avoid unavailability. If there is an unavailability, solutions will be sought. More specifically, the FAGG evaluates any unavailability notification using a decision tree. This will take into account in the first instance the duration, the number of available alternatives based on the same active substance and route of administration, and the indication. It will examine whether available alternatives can anticipate increased demand. If there are no alternatives or these cannot meet the increased demand, it will be considered whether an alternative treatment is possible, based on another active substance or a majestic preparation. If no solution is found, it will be examined whether the company can distribute foreign packaging of the medicinal product on the Belgian market by derogation or whether a pharmacist can import the medicinal product through Article 105, on the basis of a prescription and medical certificate. If no solution is possible, a task force shall be organised. Experts work together to find a solution, for example the prioritisation of indications. Also in case of cessation of marketing, the FAGG evaluates the impact to ensure the availability of medicinal products to the patient. That is the state of play. You'll probably already know some things. Those who consider it necessary to have a more thorough debate are right. In order to be fully clear about the situation per product that the IBD patients need, or the medicines for patients with Crohn's disease are actually in the pharmacy or not, what valid alternatives exist concretely and the real cause of the unavailability, I have instructed the FAGG and the RIZIV to conduct a very thorough investigation that should lead to further actions. With all the relevant administrations, in this case the FAGG and the RIZIV, we are working on concrete solutions that are legally binding. We do so in consultation with stakeholders in the framework of the FAGG's Unavailability Working Group. These include transparency arrangements, the volume of stocks held by wholesalers and their actual destination. The extension of the possibilities for substitution of medicinal products by pharmacies is also being considered, as is the financing of the consequences of unavailability, in particular where the introduction of such a medicinal product is necessary. We listen to all stakeholders and strive for consensus. I think those who charge are right. Personally, I have not had enough time in recent months to work hard on this pressing problem. But I do think I should try to find solutions together with my agencies and administration. I hope this is progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, in which you give us what steps are possible. You say that if we go ahead with everything the FAGG is doing at the moment, if the problem persists, a working party will be possible. You will ask FAGG and RIZIV for solutions. Perhaps that will be the task force's step and that step will not work. You cite a number of reasons, such as delays in production. That may be all, but it does not help the patients who come to the pharmacist today who are looking for a solution to their problem. It is time for that step to be taken to a task force. We need to find a thorough solution to the problem. I know your party has the same opinion as ours. You still have a last resort. If there really is no other way, then there are still compulsory licences. Maybe you should take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your rather dry answer. Your services have prepared it well. You say there are no deficits reported for Stelara, the subcutaneous biological therapy, but according to our information, that's not true. Dozens of patients have had problems getting their much-needed medicine. Either your information or ours doesn't work, or the system on which it can be entered doesn't work. Maybe that should be addressed or re-examined. With regard to IBD's problem, wholesalers cannot be expected to cause a shortage on the Belgian market because they sell their goods on the parallel market, for example. That tends to be mafia practices on the patients' hood. I fear that this is not only the case for medicines for IBD patients, but probably also for many other chronic patients. I hope, together with the patients, that you will address this problem and that you will not only support the FAGG in its research, but that you will also encourage it to carry out an in-depth investigation so that such practices can no longer happen. I hope you also see that the system is not working properly. If patients say they can't get their medication, they won't lie about it. I hope that you will deal with this in the short term, so that patients no longer stand in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u14	Minister, thank you for your response. I hear you recognize the existence of a drug availability problem. If you don't talk about shortage, you still talk about unavailability. I also mean that you want a thorough investigation to be carried out and solutions found, in collaboration with the administration, in terms of availability, transparency and accessibility. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that there is an urgent need for these patients. Indeed, they will ignore until March if they get the most suitable medication for their pathology, which harms their morale; their daily lives are very difficult. I would like to be reassured, which is why I will continue to ask you about the avenues and measures you are considering to improve the lives of patients with MICI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u15	Mr President, I had a technical problem, but I hope that my question can be included in the report. I have heard the Minister's reply and I am reassured that the problem will be dealt with by the cabinet now that an in-depth investigation is being considered. We need to make time for that. Unfortunately, these patients are in the cold until March. There are a lot of psychological disadvantages to this disease. We really have to make sure that these people get all the medical help we can give them. I thank the Minister for his answer and I really hope for a follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have taken note of the various investigations that you have requested. We expect the results, but in the meantime, these shortages mislead patients, who do not always understand why they cannot receive their medicines, which are a real necessity for them. I also take note of your willingness to find solutions, always in the interest of these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u17	I am surprised by your response, Minister, because I thought the AFMPS investigation had already been launched. You also did not communicate a timetable. Could we have a clear commitment on your part so that the Agency can let us know, within 15 days, what is the situation with regard to these unavailabilitys? What are the options? I heard you say in a stoic way that there was no unavailability for Stelara, but I can assure you that many patients have personally experienced this unavailability. In my opinion, you must not be the spokesperson for the AFMPS, but the Minister of Health for patients. As many as 40,000 Belgians suffer from Crohn's disease and ulcer-hemorrhagic rectocolitis. These patients should be considered. I also think that it is possible to innovate as regards the solutions. You said that, for the Questran, the AFMPS has planned a plan B using Eurocept, via a derogation. However, in other Member States, Questran is available in generic forms. The European dimension is important, of course, but why not innovate by concluding agreements with other Member States for medicines in need? This would make it possible to find an immediate operational solution for patients. The situation has been going on for several months now and there is an urgent need to address it. I sort of pull the alarm bell, in connection with the caregivers and, more particularly, the BIRD association, but also with the patients. I hope that you will provide both patients and caregivers with answers in the coming weeks, and that you will set a precise and tight schedule in this regard. Patients need it so badly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I agree with you and I am pleased that you will have a thorough debate on this and will carry out a thorough analysis. Well, that KB was supposed to be done on February 2, a year ago. There's nothing you can do about that, but the urgency is there. Above all, in covid times, we must not forget that our chronic patients are entitled to optimal health care and care. What remains to be worked out in the KB is the export restriction. Quotas must also be dealt with. We have approved this, so I am really in favour of implementing this, as is the obligation to supply the marketing authorisation holder and the wholesalers. You referred to the right of substitution for pharmacists, but we also approved it. It just needs to be poured into a KB. I understand you're working on the price compensation, and that's absolutely good. Colleagues have already referred to the unavailability. You say that it is not here today and you are de facto right today, but perhaps not last month or the month before. The problem is that a health care like ours really needs to reassure the patient that he or she will get his medication. There isn't any today. Patients with different chronic conditions who need biologicals should really plan when to go to the pharmacy and how to make sure that they have their medication available. That's a real problem. About the changeover, your policy paper says that you want to focus more on the cheaper versions of the biologicals. There should be less red tape to move from one to the next. The deletion of and the new request for a price for Colitofalk confirm the plea I have made before. Flexibility and price requests from proven necessity are something that we need to work on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u19	Minister, your answer was rather vague. Of course, you are busy dealing with the corona crisis, but the problem of deficits also deserves attention. It is actually a textbook example of everything we talked about last year in the hearings. In fact, these deficits have become a business model with which people make money. In some cases, they stopped marketing cheap drugs, but started importing them or exporting them. However, the pharmaceutical industry has a certain social responsibility when it places medicines on the market that people are completely dependent on to lead a somewhat normal life. They must ensure that these medicines are also available on the market. It is up to you to remind these companies of their social responsibility and to ensure that the rules of the game are respected. This is a textbook example of this problem, which shows that it needs to be addressed quickly. After all, it does not happen that all these patients are going to write letters and go to the press to make this public. As far as Stelara is concerned, you didn't answer at all. After all, you said that there is no shortage, but of course there is. The fact that the same syringe costs 2,900 euros in Belgium and more than 5,000 euros in Germany can of course lead to export of the product. By the way, that smells like the story about Femara we went through two years ago. You must act quickly and decisively, that is what we expect and especially the patients of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u20	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal on the procedure. Several people, Mrs Merckx, Mrs Fonck and Mrs Depoorter, said that the information I gave here on the authority of the agency was not correct or that there was a problem with it. You identified certain inabilitys that were denied here. I would be grateful if you would send me an e-mail containing the information showing that the Agency's response is not entirely correct. You must, of course, take into account privacy, since it is undoubtedly a matter of specific patients. You can send that e-mail to Mrs. Jill Schellens, my assistant, so I can have that examined further. As far as the precise timing is concerned, I know that it concerns three to four decisions. I believe that there should be a system of transparency on the volume of stocks held by wholesalers and their actual destination. That arrangement is now being worked on by my administration, and she's almost done. Then there is the possibility of substitution of medicines by the pharmacist. That's in a meeting. Mrs. Fonck, I can't promise you that for the next few weeks. I want to accelerate that as much as possible, but I fear that such matters will have to be counted in months rather than weeks. Thirdly, there is the financing of the consequences of the unavailability, in particular in cases where imports of such a medicinal product are necessary. I am sorry to say that, although it may have been delayed for a long time, this has not been settled in a few weeks. It may take longer, but I'm going after it. However, I must say that a decision with an export ban, on which Mrs Depoorter is alluding, is not so simple, given the European context. That is why we need a debate at European level. I want to work on it. You are encouraging me, quite rightly, because there are no excuses for not speeding up. However, we do not have this within the period of a few weeks, I say that immediately. I'll keep you posted. Since committee members may have information I do not have at my disposal, I suggest that this information be provided to me on an anonymous basis, but in such a way that we are nevertheless informed of the inaccessibility you are not aware of, but are unknown to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u21	Mr. Chairman, could the secretariat provide us with the specific e-mail address? I heard it was Mr. or Mrs. Schellens. On the other hand, Minister, you did not provide a schedule for the Agency's investigation of the previously mentioned drugs. I can't imagine it's going on for months. I can understand that the deadline is longer on certain aspects of prescriptions, but the Agency's investigation of the medicines mentioned today must be able to be completed very quickly. At some point, you mentioned the management of consequences, etc. The consequences for patients relate primarily to their health. The quality of life is terribly penalized in the absence of some of these medicines, but the cost to public authorities is not negligible either. Patients sometimes have to stop working or have complications and need to be rehospitated due to the shortage of certain medicines. One in the other, I think that, by always wanting to move towards the lowest price, the final cost will be higher. I think that, as Minister of Health, you have a certain weight that you must also use to bring together, at some point, the actors involved in these drugs in view of the vital needs for patients, around the table and, together, find solutions. Thank you for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u22	Mr President, I propose that the secretariat give the address of my employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u23	I've already taken care of that. We shall pass that on to the questioners and to those who have taken the floor in this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u24	Minister, I am a little disappointed in your response to the implementing decisions. Your answer is quite noncommittal: "We are in consultation, we will look into it, we will discuss it." However, we are talking about a law which was approved by Parliament and which contains very clear directives which must be followed. You are talking about the list of wholesalers' stocks and how much is planned for Belgium, but the law we have approved contains a clear obligation to supply. Compliance and follow-up is what your services should be working on. Then I do not think that much remains to be discussed. The law has been passed, you must determine and control the execution. What you are saying about these European talks is quite clearly a limited list of medicines that are repeatedly unavailable to our patients. That's how it's written in the law. That's perfect. You have the right to do that. The first export ban was indeed rejected by the Constitutional Court because it was not proportionate, but here we explicitly state that if a drug is missing frequently for 12 months for patients, we can restrict exports. Substitution law, same as before. Those papers need to be ready. With regard to the price compensation, for the patients, that really makes a difference. Accessibility of care is what we stand for. Surely patients cannot suffer from the fact that Belgium is only one of the main areas of access to medicines at the moment? That really is a working point for your services. I would like to have a timeline, as Mr Fonck has asked. I don't really settle for "a few months." I came to Parliament and within the six months we passed this law after hearings because it was absolutely necessary. More than a thousand specialties are currently unavailable, of which 28 are truly crucial. You know that and it is our duty to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u25	Minister, I am a little surprised that you are asking me to send you e-mails. We've all been notified by the testimonies in the patient associations' e-mails. For example, they are increasingly told that Stelara is not available. I don't know what more proof you need. I don't know if you got the e-mail from the exporters at noon today. They say that it is not their fault, but at the same time they show a communication from the company Janssen-Cilag of November 2020. It proposes that a number of medicines, including Stelara, which are effectively suffering from unavailability, should be ordered directly from the producer. There is therefore a problem of availability. I don't quite understand what additional evidence is yet to be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u26	Mrs Merckx, you got that at noon, but I didn't. Just send me that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u27	Okay, that's gonna be fine, but I thought I'd give it to you anyway. With regard to the obligation to supply, there is, in addition to a social responsibility. If a company places a medicine on the market, it must be able to deliver it. Sanctions have already been included in the current law, but Mrs De Block has told us in the debates that they will never be applied. If I drive through the red light or commit a speeding offence and I know I'll never get a fine for that, I'll keep doing it. You have the responsibility to make implementing decisions, including the other law that has been adopted and which contains a number of improvements. Also, as Minister, you must defend the spirit of the law in relation to industry. It must accept its responsibility, and that of course begins with the recognition of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u28	Minister, in Belgium, the figures for diabetes appear to be incomplete. Indeed, Sciensano indicates that there is not yet a comprehensive record of the prevalence and treatment of this chronic disease. In this regard, the President of the Diabetes Association has mobilized by soliciting the public authorities for the creation of a register to obtain accurate mapping, but also data to better assess the effectiveness of the measures taken in our territory. In addition, it was reported that it follows from the 4th covid-19 health survey conducted by Sciensano that some people with diabetes are more likely to develop a severe infection with covid-19. In this regard, Minister, are you considering creating a more effective registration system and, therefore, better mapping of the matter, and establishing such a register quickly? How much funding is currently available for the fight against diabetes in Belgium? Have you, along with your counterparts in the federated entities, determined the public's awareness objectives for the coming months? Are you also considering implementing measures to make more diagnoses at an earlier stage? If so, through which specific federal initiatives or in collaboration with external actors? We know, in fact, the importance of the precocity of diagnosis like other pathologies. Finally, how many diabetic patients were affected by covid-19? How has the effect of covid-19 on diabetic patients ever been precisely defined and communicated to individuals and the Diabetes Association? In the context of the health crisis, what are the specific concrete measures for this public that need more attention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u29	Mrs Taquin, in response to the question concerning the recording of data for all diabetic patients in a register, I can say that such a register does not currently exist. However, the feasibility and usefulness of such a registry can be examined in subsequent years, within the overall context of a registry that would cover all kinds of diseases. If such a register were to be set up, it would of course only be possible to include patients already diagnosed. Possible diabetic patients who have not yet been diagnosed cannot be included in a registry. However, within the framework of the diabetes agreements that INAMI has concluded with most hospitals, quality control has been carried out for many years on the basis of the data of the patients that Sciensano collects from the hospitals concerned. However, these patient data are not a real register but are based on samples of patients monitored under the diabetes conventions. In addition, only a portion of patients with diabetes, those with the most serious cases, are monitored under these diabetes conventions. With regard to funding for the fight against diabetes in Belgium, I can only give you the figures of expenditure related to specific measures for the treatment and follow-up of diabetic patients. Within the framework of health insurance in Belgium, there are three follow-up programmes for patients with diabetes: pre-trajection, the path of type 2 diabetes care and diabetes conventions. In 2018, health insurance expenditure amounted to €1,801,794 for pre-trips, €24,421,492 for diabetes care trips and €163,845,446 for diabetes conventions. To simplify: €1.8 million for pre-trips, €24.5 million for diabetes care routes and almost €164 million for diabetes conventions. Expenditure on antidiabetic medicinal products amounted to EUR 199 million – almost EUR 200 million. As a result, total health insurance expenditure for these specific measures for diabetic patients amounted to €389 million – almost €390 million. In addition to this cost related to specific measures for diabetic patients, account must be taken of the cost of general health care expenses that are not specifically targeted at diabetic patients and whose cost related to diabetes is not known or difficult to do. I am thinking, for example, of the cost of consulting a diabetic patient with his general practitioner, the cost of hospitalisation of patients suffering from this condition, etc. In order to really know the overall cost of a disease, extensive and costly scientific studies should be carried out, the results of which could be exceeded a few years later. Your next question concerns the implementation of measures to make more diagnoses earlier. In this regard, I can tell you that screening for diabetes is a primary task of the general practitioner and is one of the priorities in establishing an honorarium for managing the patient's overall medical record. According to 2019 figures, some 8 million global medical records (GMDs) were to be tested, including medical homes. A large part of the population is therefore monitored in this context and diabetes should be detected in this context. How many diabetic patients were affected by covid-19? Currently, there are no specific data on the number of diabetic patients affected by the latter. As part of its monitoring mission, Sciensano analyses the covid-19 data collected during hospitalizations. According to the December 4, 2020 report, 22.7% of patients hospitalized for covid-19 had diabetes. It is not possible to distinguish between type I diabetes and type II diabetes since the questionnaire received during hospitalization does not explicitly request it. I'm being asked to make this distinction. Since the introduction of containment measures, Sciensano has carried out several health surveys assessing the opinion, perception and experience of the Belgian population on various subjects related to the epidemic of covid-19. A fourth health survey was conducted between 24 September and 2 October, in which the impact of the epidemic on people with diabetes was first studied. The Diabetes Association and Diabetes Liga distributed this survey, allowing for the participation of a large number of people with diabetes (6.4% of the total sample). The main results of this health survey are as follows. First, the health crisis did not have a significant impact on compliance with treatment in people with diabetes. The vast majority (98%) continue to take their medication strictly. Second, a significant proportion of people with diabetes (8%) have had less medical follow-up since the onset of the crisis than before. However, 7% of those who control their diabetes at home have done so more regularly since that time. Third, since the onset of the crisis, many people with diabetes have adopted unhealthy lifestyles: 11.4% pay less attention to their diet and 29% exercise less. This is more often the case for people with type II diabetes than for people with type I diabetes. Fourthly, the negative impact of the covid-19 crisis on the monitoring and lifestyle of people with diabetes is more common among women than men. These are the main results of this latest health survey. The long-term effects of covid-19 are not yet known. Further research is needed to study the various long-term effects of the epidemic on people with diabetes. You ask whether, in the context of the health crisis, specific measures have been taken for this public requiring more attention. Sciensano has not established specific guidelines for the group of people at risk for diabetes. However, people with diabetes have been identified as a risk group and generic measures have been proposed, along with advice, guidelines and procedures to enable treating physicians to work within existing professional organizations, care structures and care routes. In the context of the health crisis, all patients suffering from chronic disease have, much more than other citizens, an interest in avoiding infections. Of course, for patients with diabetes infected with covid-19, treating physicians should consider diabetes in treatment. I mean, in hospitals, endocrino-diabetologists are involved in the treatment of diabetic patients hospitalized due to covid-19, if necessary. The final question was about potential recent exchanges with my counterparts in the federated entities to raise our population's awareness of this disease. I have not had any specific exchanges, but I repeat, Mrs Taquin, that the responsibility for raising public awareness of a disease and the policy of prevention in this respect lies with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. It's a subject that gets my full attention. As you have explained with transparency, I understand that there is no register but that this is one of the priorities you set yourself for the years to come. I'm still worried when you expose me to the numbers of 22.7% of people hospitalized for covid-19 who had diabetes without being able to specify the type of diabetes. I am concerned about the vaccination strategy, especially given this percentage of people with diabetes, when there is no record, and the importance of communicating with these people who are looking forward to – you know – being able to be vaccinated. So I'll come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u31	Mrs Taquin, in order to spare you some frustration, is this the issue of prescription sport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u32	Yes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u33	In fact, the themes of sport, physical exercise and prevention are not my responsibility, but that of my counterparts in the federated entities. So I'm going to frustrate you, because my answer will be limited. Of course, I can't stop you from asking it, but my answer will be extremely small.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u34	Nevertheless, I would like to take the floor to know how you feel and how you feel about this prescription sport project. In short, I will spare you my question, but I would like to know how you feel about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u35	Mrs Taquin, that is very kind, but it is somewhat delicate that I speak about a matter that is not within my competence. This is obviously an interesting subject. You mention pilot projects. Physical activity is an essential aspect of any public health approach. Only, I'm not going to answer you specifically.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u36	In our territory, pilot projects have been launched to provide concrete responses to certain chronic diseases. I guess you won't be opposed to that. It seems to me that implementation remains difficult due to a lack of coordination between actors, general practitioners, INAMI, mutuals and sports associations. Do you therefore intend to have an exchange with the federated entities on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u37	I told you that this was not within my competence and that it was not included in my agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u39	Mr Minister, cancer patients regularly use the transport of patients to and from the hospital. Come on against Cancer therefore launched at the beginning of this year a reporting campaign in which former or current cancer patients, other long-term sick, their relatives and nursing staff called for their experiences on the transport of sick people. On the basis of 206 testimonies, a report was prepared that reveals the pain points of sick transport in Flanders. The first major problem is the crunching of providers and prices, which requires a lot of effort to find tailor-made sick transport. A second and third problem highlighted in the report is the affordability and quality of sick transport. The report reveals problems related to the patient's treatment during transport, waiting times and the way patients are transported. Also the cost is often very high and is not fully covered by health insurance or the mutualities. Come on against Cancer states that the costs should be tailored to the patient's income and brought together in one central place, where people can easily find information about the different providers and prices. I have the following questions, Minister. You received the report on December 15th. What have you done with it or what else will you do with it? Will you enter into dialogue with the sector and also take into account its desires? Will you sit with your colleagues in the Länder to find a solution together?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u40	Mrs Sneppe, I read with interest the results of the survey of Kom op tegen Kanker. I have already been able to say this to the Flemish Patient Platform and to those involved. I hear, as you say, a great concern for patients about the sometimes high and unpredictable bill for transport to the hospital or between hospitals. One of the patients said that very strikingly: "The bill I got because my hospital decided to send me to another hospital was really a cold shower." I have also given a personal response to Kom op tegen Kanker, emphasising two elements which must improve the affordability of patient transport. First of all, we are talking about the so-called'series transport'. There is a federal refund for some patient groups who have to rely on patient transport for a long period of time because of their chronic illness. These include dialysis and cancer patients transport under specific rehabilitation agreements, or prematures and newborns. In most cases, the refund is €0.25 per kilometre. I see two problems here. Firstly, the 0.25 euro per kilometre has not been indexed for a long time. Secondly, other patient groups, who also regularly and for a long time use patient transport, are excluded from the boat, as are the new cancer treatments, the immunotherapy. Secondly, I would like to look specifically at interhospital transport. Today there is a federal refund via the Financial Resources Budget if transportation takes place between different campuses of the same hospital or if the patient returns within 24 hours to the hospital of referral. In the other cases, the invoice is entirely at the expense of the patient. I hear stories about rising invoices up to 2,000 euros. That cannot, of course, be the intention. We want hospitals to cooperate more, including in the framework of networking. Therefore, patients cannot be expected to suffer financially. Also from other organisations, such as the Flemish Patient Platform, the Chronic Disease Observatory and the Mutualities, I already received similar signals. My staff have planned a consultation with all those stakeholders in mid-January 2021 to see how we can improve the accessibility of patient transport. There will also be a need for consultation with the Länder, since non-urgent transport is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that a meeting is scheduled in mid-January. We're January 19th. Has that meeting taken place yet? After all, it is very necessary. There are already certain allowances, but there are still a lot of patients who are now unfortunately slipping through the loopholes and are left with a large invoice. I am glad that you will do something about this and that you will discuss it. I guess this hasn't happened yet. Mid-January is this week. I therefore hope that this will happen this week or at the latest this month and that something fruitful will come out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u42	In July 2020, a social agreement was concluded for health workers, in particular for the 330 Joint Committee. After signals from the field, I find that the paramedics of private ambulance services do not enjoy the social agreement. That's the subcategory 330.04. Those ambulances, of course, have also made a lot of efforts during the corona crisis and almost all work for a minimum wage. Do you have any idea why the ambulances under the subcategory 330.04 are not included in the social agreement? Will you have new discussions on this so that those ambulances too can benefit from the social agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u43	The social agreement signed on 12 November 2020 applies to the federal health sectors concerned by the collective agreement of 11 December 2017 establishing a new wage model for the federal health services. Those sectors are the establishments subject to the law on hospitals, with the exception of autonomous categoral hospitals, forensic-psychiatric centres, federal rehabilitation centres, blood services of the Red Cross of Belgium, home care, medical and paediatric centres and district health centres. Private employment services are thus not yet involved in the introduction of the new wage model, but the social partners of the 330 Joint Committee are examining ways of solving the so-called residual sectors, including ambulance services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u44	I'll write that down in a minute. I hope that we will soon be able to deliver good news to a rather large group of workers. It is a positive signal that the issue is being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u45	Mr Minister, my question concerns the Avastin-Lucentis scandal which has been going on in Europe for several years and which has also been discussed here in Parliament in various debates with your predecessor. In September 2020, the French competition authority also decided to impose a fine of no less than EUR 444 million on Roche, Novartis and Genentech for an infringement of the competition rules. In Italy, this had already happened the year before, with a fine of EUR 182 million. They were convicted because they were in a position to keep the much cheaper but equal medicine for wet macular degeneration Avastin off the market in favour of the much more expensive Lucentis. For example, they artificially kept Lucentis' market share high. Eye doctors were encouraged to use especially Lucentis, despite the scientific evidence that the two medicines are equivalent. Also in our country Test Purchase already filed a complaint with the Belgian Competition Authority in 2014. Test Purchase therefore denies that after six years in our country there is still no ruling in the file. Last year there was a lot of fuss, because it was calculated that since 2014 about half a billion would have been lost by prescribing Lucentis in the place of Avastin, also in our country. Mrs. De Block contradicted that at the time. A parliamentary debate was held on this subject with hearings over several days. The decision was that Lucentis was covered by a secret contract. So we don't know the price discount Lucentis may give, but the price difference between Lucentis and Avastin is really huge. For example, we ourselves calculated that we could treat all patients with Avastin instead of Lucentis for EUR 7 million. Today it is about EUR 94 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u46	Mrs Merckx, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u47	I have the following questions, Minister. What is the state of the investigation with the Belgian Competition Authority? Why does it drag on so long? Will you pay attention to arrive at a quick verdict? It's true that there's a secret deal with Lucentis running until March 31st. Will you renew that contract? Will you make sure that this is an important question that can also be used and reimbursed in Belgium for the cheaper medicine Avastin for macular degeneration rather than the much more expensive variant Lucentis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u48	Mrs Merckx, the Belgian Competition Authority belongs to the Minister for Economic Affairs, so I will not be able to answer the questions. With regard to the contracts with the RIZIV you mention, you know that we want to reform the Article 111 procedure and that Parliament, on the initiative of Mr Bertels and Mrs Depoorter, has passed a law in this respect by a large majority. However, you will also remember the legal opinions of that time, namely that the confidentiality clauses do not allow the existing contracts to be made public, not even under the law that was discussed here. Therefore, it is not possible to make the existing contracts public and I will have to stick to the application of that law, which has been democratically established. You're asking me to review the contract. All contracts will be reviewed regularly. I agree with you that contracts should not be abused to ensure that health insurance costs are met. The opposite is, of course, the intention: to give rapid access and, in the meantime, to eliminate therapeutic uncertainties and avoid budgetary problems and uncertainties. That is the philosophy behind the Article 111 procedure, on which we must monitor every contract that is concluded. You also ask for information about Avastin and Lucentis. There's a procedure for Lucentis right now. Because it is running, it is unfortunately not possible to provide you with more detailed information. I will inform you of this in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u49	Madam President, Minister, I will also put a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs about the Competition Authority. For the rest, I am somewhat disappointed in your reply. After all, you do not indicate whether you will renew the contract for Lucentis. Is the current application an application for a secret contract or for a normal refund? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u50	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u51	It's not clear. The contract is about to come to an end. Normally, such contracts are only concluded if there are therapeutic uncertainties. Of course, that is no longer the case here with Lucentis. I also hope that you will take the dossier more to heart. Today, Avastin is the first choice for macular degeneration, both in the Netherlands and in the United Kingdom and in France. Avastin is ten times cheaper than Lucentis. So I don't understand why you wouldn't change that. I will question you again on the matter. After all, it would shock me very much from you. I would just like to point out that an effective application can now be made to look at the contracts. However, that rule has not been introduced for the existing contracts. However, it is not right that it could not be done. We could have passed the law that way. At that time, however, I found that the transparency promised by the N-VA and the sp.a did not appear exactly in the dossier in question and they finally kept the pot close in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u52	Mrs Merckx, I would just like to point out that you exceeded your speaking time by half each time. I realize you don't see the clock, but 2 minutes turned into 3 minutes and 1 minute turned into one and a half. If we all do that, we'll be here a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u53	Minister, you have already made it clear, which is a good thing, that you are not opposed in principle to the medical use of cannabis. In your opinion, the policy must be based on scientific research and take account of what is being done abroad. I fully agree that the medical use of cannabinoids should be based on scientific evidence, but scientific research should be encouraged. It is therefore regrettable to hear that the study draft submitted to the KCE for the 2021 work programme on medical cannabis for pain and spasms in ALS was not approved. I'm in contact with the ALS League and a lot of their members and patients are taking medical cannabis. They're taking that across the border. That is what we must try to avoid in the future. This must indeed be based on clinical studies and scientific research. It is particularly striking that the argument for this decision cited that clinical studies of neurodegenerative diseases do not provide evidence of the efficacy of medical cannabis. There's already been some studies abroad. I am thinking, among other things, of the CANALS study, which is also referred to by the ALS League. This shows that cannabis is effective with a lot of symptoms. Minister, how will you stimulate research into the medicinal effects of cannabinoids? How, pending the results of such a study, will you practically roll out the legislative framework of the policy on the legal provision of medicinal cannabis and the establishment of the Belgian cannabis agency adopted in 2019? I understand you'd like to do some work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u54	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, I think that research into the harmful and/or intended effects of medical cannabis use is important. Several elements make such an investigation important. First, the United Nations decided that cannabis and cannabis resin in list IV of the Convention on Narcotic Drugs would be removed. According to the World Health Organisation, cannabis and cannabis resin should be placed on a list of levels of control that prevent damage caused by the use of cannabis while at the same time preventing access to, research and development of cannabis-related preparations for medical use. The shelves of cannabis and cannabis resin listed in List IV of the Convention on Narcotic Drugs may be beneficial for the promotion of collective knowledge of the therapeutic usefulness of cannabis, as well as of potentially related adverse effects. Secondly, I believe that the recent amendment to the law on the creation of the cannabis agency could promote the research climate for clinical research into cannabis-related preparations for medical use in Belgium. Finally, I ask my services to keep a constant watch on current scientific knowledge and policies in other European countries. There are currently no implementing decisions on the cannabis agency. I will ask my services to do so this year. With this agency the government gets the monopoly on the production, trade and import and export of cannabis for medical purposes. This should make it easier to conduct proper research into the medicinal applications of cannabinoids. Moreover, this development enables us to have a more objective debate on medicinal cannabis, which can be separated from the discussion about the use of cannabis as a drug.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u55	Minister, I feel the intention to work on the implementation of the legislation, of which I was a co-initiator. There is a clear need on the ground in various patient groups. Now it is taken under the guise: do not harm it, then it does not benefit. However, in the case of people who are seriously ill, we must prevent this. It is therefore regrettable that the KCE has not yet grasped the importance of such studies. One can indeed do scientific research independently of the cannabis agency. Perhaps it is important that you have some contact with the various patient groups that are actively using it, to put their hearts under control and to report that you want to make progress. In any case, I will also send them this message.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u56	Minister, in response to a written question on genital mutilation and the law voted on during the previous legislature, you cited the prevalence study Genital mutilation of the FPS Public Health. The latest data date from 2016. You also indicated that there is no evaluation of the implementation of the law on the registration of female genital mutilation in the patient's medical records. Because we know that this practice is being imported, along with the asylum applications, we need to keep our finger on the pulse. Measuring is knowing. We can help the women and children of these families preventively. Hence my questions. Minister, will you request a new study to obtain more up-to-date data on the prevalence of genital mutilation? If so, by when will we be able to obtain this information? If not, why not? Will you have an evaluation of the implementation of the law on the registration of female genital mutilation in the medical file carried out in the hospital? There, caregivers see whether or not women were genitally mutilated, or whether they are asking a question for a new cesorship or the back-sawing of the wound. If so, by when will we have this evaluation? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u57	We have planned a consultation with the IGM where genital mutilation is on the agenda. No evaluation of the implementation of the law on the registration of female genital mutilation in the patient's medical records is currently planned. The law came after a bill during the previous legislature. It was a parliamentary initiative. But no implementing act has been made for this law. I think that the attention to genital mutilation is important and will therefore look together with my services at what is needed to take further steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I was indeed the initiator of this law. The registration allows to know how many patients register in hospitals, for childbirth or gynecological examination. In this way we can also take preventive action if we could also take the RB to engage in dialogue with the various communities. One could also locate which hospitals there are more victims to record in order to be able to work more effectively. Today we absolutely don't know this. We don't have actual data, even from hospitals, that sometimes register spontaneously. However, it is intended to do so systematically and to be able to enter into dialogue with the various communities in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u59	Mr Minister, I tabled this question in response to my written question on CT and NMR scans. The aim should be to reduce the CT scans, which generate X-rays, in favour of the NMR or MRI scans, which do not. Imaging would actually be reduced, especially for certain pathologies where it offers little added value, both in terms of diagnostics and in terms of therapy. An additional element is that medical imaging costs social security a lot of money. The excessive and, above all, inappropriate use of medical imaging should therefore be reduced, both in budgetary terms and in terms of public health. The figures show that the situation is still not right. Although the number of NMR scans is increasing, the number of CT scans is still increasing. Especially in Wallonia, the figures are really not good. As many as 26,403 CT scans were made in 2019 according to the figures we received from you. For Flanders there were about 18,000 and for Brussels about 17,000. Minister, what can we do to speed up the transition to NMR scans and to reduce the use of medical imaging? How is it that the figures in Wallonia are much less good? Do you have a view of the causes? What are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u60	Mrs Gijbels, I can tell you first of all that an awareness campaign on the proper use of medical imaging in back pain is in preparation. Too often unnecessary medical imaging is required for back pain, for example. In addition, the FOD and RIZIV administrations are working in consultation with industry experts on a clinical decision support project to promote and facilitate the use of guidelines for the correct prescription of radiology. The project provides, on the one hand, for the purchase of evidence-based decision-making rules which will support prescribers in choosing whether or not a radiological investigation is appropriate and, if so, which research is most appropriate. On the other hand, it also provides for a clinical decision support system, which will integrate the decision-making rules into the clinical workflow of prescribers. The requirements for the decision-making rules and for the clinical decision support tool were worked out together with experts from BELMIP, the Belgian Medical Imaging Platform. The CSFs for the public procurement of the project will be published at the beginning of this year. I also refer to the agreement recently concluded between doctors and health insurance funds. It pays due attention to effective care. The correct use of medical imaging is an integral part of this. Second, the Plan Enforcement and Fraud, approved by the General Council of the RIZIV on 4 June 2018, included the principle of hospital auditing, focusing on the proper and efficient use of the resources deployed. There is currently an audit on the use of heavy medical imaging. One of the objectives is to explain the geographical differences you mentioned in the question. This is done, among other things, by a survey on the premises. Because of the pandemic, it was decided to give hospitals more time to search, not to burden them too heavily during this period of particular challenges for care. Interim results are expected in mid 2021. In the second half of this year, the audit can be supplemented on the basis of information obtained from site visits. That also explains why I am not yet answering your question about regional disparities, Mrs Gijbels. On the basis of the results of the audit, recommendations will be drawn up to prevent inefficient use of medical imaging and to promote the correct use of medical imaging.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u61	Minister, we have long been at the top in Europe when it comes to using CT scans, for example, but also, unfortunately, the medical radiation dose that our people receive. We should not be proud of that. I am very pleased that action will indeed be taken. I hope that the results will also be measured. I hope that will also bring you to Parliament. Of course, the issue cannot be separated from hospital funding. It may be necessary to consider how the use of medical imaging contributes to the problem of hospital funding. I look forward to the results of the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u62	Mr Minister, my question concerns the logopedists. The Planning Committee on Medical Offer published a study and an opinion on the situation of the logopedists in the Belgian labour market a while ago. There'd be too many. The Planning Committee called for better matching of demand and supply for speech therapy. Several recommendations were made on this subject. A working group would be set up within the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health to manage the supply of logopedists, with a mandate to make a number of concrete proposals before 30 September 2020. That is why I have the following questions. What proposals were made by the working group? Can you state the state of play with regard to the Royal Decree of 20 October 1994 on the profession of logopedist? Were there also proposals for amendments on this subject? Is it true that they only want to organise the course at master level? If so, what are the reasons? Was this discussed with the professions and training centres? What were their main comments and objections? In what way did this have to be met? Finally, what will be done with the various recommendations of the Planning Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u63	Ms Gijbels, you refer to the latest opinion of the Planning Committee on the situation of logopedists in the Belgian labour market, which was delivered in plenary session on 3 March 2020 and which was finally validated on 3 April 2020. So that's a week before our country had a complete lockdown due to the covid crisis. The working party initially planned with the situation of the appeal on the agenda did not take place. The item will be placed on the agenda at a later stage. In 2016 the subject matter was discussed within the IKW Health Occupations of the Interministerial Conference on Health. The concerns of the various trade associations of the logopedists about the increasing expenditure within the RIZIV for their nomenclature were transmitted to members. One of the reasons for this increase in expenditure is, according to them, too many graduating logopedists. The Communities were asked to consider how this problem could be tackled, for example by providing better information from prospective students on their career opportunities and forms of influx limitation in training. The Federal Council for the Paramedische Beroeps and the Technical Committee for the Paramedische Beroeps are in the process of consulting, on their own initiative, on the revision of the Royal Decree of 20 October 1994 on the profession of logopedist. This opinion has not yet been finalised. So I have not received anything and I do not have any official information on this subject. As explained above, the content of this opinion of the Federal Council for the Paramedical Appeals and the Technical Committee for the Paramedical Appeals has not yet been brought to my attention. Although the revision of the minimum qualification criteria as federal competence is part of the document currently being drawn up by these advisory bodies, I cannot give you an answer. The procedures for drawing up this work have not yet been submitted to us. As this opinion has not yet been finalised, the process is still ongoing. This opinion was co-produced by representatives from the field of action of the profession's logopedia. The field of education will be informed about the evolution of this legislation upon completion of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, Corona has thrown a lot of soot in the food and apparently also here. Rationalisation is understandable if there are too many logopedists, but some training centres are now very concerned about their future. I hope that they will be well informed and involved in time so that they can give their views on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u65	Mr Minister, Article 111 medicinal products, formerly Article 81 medicinal products, are those negotiated by secret contracts between your services and the firms themselves. Those negotiations are taking place in very limited circles. Who ultimately has access to the price paid for a particular medicine? The reimbursement of that medication goes through the Medicines budget. Does the price paid remain secret, so with the FAGG and the RIZIV, or is it also communicated to the FPS Public Health and the FPS Finance? In your policy paper, you say that you want to start European negotiations in order to gain more access to expensive and innovative medicines. How do you see that? How will you frame the secrecy in that? Do you intend to agree on an equal price for the whole of Europe, or will you negotiate earlier in the context of the BeNeLuxA Pact? We just had a discussion about Stelara. Many of these expensive medicines are only the last to be reimbursed in Belgium. This is because Belgium negotiates fairly well and can therefore raise low prices. Do you think that with the new path you are taking, you will take no risk that the Belgian patient will suddenly have to pay more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u66	The following persons and bodies shall have access to the final price paid for a medicinal product for which reimbursement was provided for by an agreement: the administrator-general of the RIZIV, the lead official of the Medical Care Service of the RIZIV, the chairman of the Contract Negotiating Working Party, the file manager and the internal evaluator of the file, all employees of the RIZIV, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister (or in the current State Secretary of State) of Budget, the Minister of Economy and per minister a representative, three representatives and three alternate members of the insurance institutions designated by the Insurance Committee, the applicant or his representatives and, where appropriate, a clinical expert appointed by the applicant, a representative of the professional organisations of the pharmaceutical industry designated by the applicant, pharma.be or Medaxes, the chairman and/or one of the two Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting, the Finance Inspector and the Audit Court in the case of an investigation by the Parliament. The decision-making process for the reimbursement of medicinal products, including the negotiations for agreements under Article 111, shall be carried out by the RIZIV and not by the FAGG. The RIZIV does not share the cost with the FAGG, the FPS Public Health or the FPS Finance, only with the persons and agencies I have just mentioned. With regard to the European framework, it is not my practice to negotiate the same price throughout Europe. A distinction must be made between an official list price, which in reality is generally comparable throughout Europe, and the final cost of health insurance and thus society. In both our own national negotiations and in the negotiations with our colleagues from BeNeLuxA, my first objective is to ensure access to the truly valuable medicines for all patients they need. This must also be achieved at the real cost to society that ensures sustainable accessibility and correctly honours the value of the medicine. This is also feasible in international negotiations. In joint negotiations, differentiation in costs between different countries can be established if this would make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as the European framework is concerned, you negotiate HTA together, among other things, but prices remain different. In the recent discussion on the covid vaccine, you indicated that a negotiation from Europe offers a price advantage, as several countries are reducing it. For the expensive and innovative medication you obviously do not use that reasoning. I find it somewhat difficult to understand the real added value you have in accessing innovative and expensive medicines. We often stumble over the cost price. Very often the problem arises that there is no pay for performance. From your explanation, I conclude that none of this is taken into account. I'm a little worried about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u68	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, previously, the reimbursement rate for patients treated with an unconventional physiotherapist was 25% lower than that for a patient using a conventional physiotherapist. There was, therefore, considerable discrimination between these professionals in the treatment of reimbursements, especially in comparison with reimbursement procedures for doctors and dentists. This provision is unfairly passed on to the patient who makes the free choice of a care provider, whether or not it is agreed upon. In 2019, a law was finally passed to remove this difference in treatment for patients of unconventional physiotherapists. This situation was penalizing, but fortunately it was changed. Precisely today, sections 85 and 86 of the Quality Act still require implementation. Indeed, these provisions are not yet applicable in practice. Enforcement action should still be taken. Minister, do you confirm that enforcement orders still have to be made so that the Quality Act abolishing this discrimination can have its effect? Have your services finalized the necessary steps at this level? Specifically, within what time frame is it planned to implement this provision? Can this discrimination be eliminated in order to make the repayment fair as of this year 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u69	Madam, tariff security and affordability of care are important objectives of the government agreement and are one of my priorities. A high degree of agreement between care providers is an essential link in this ambition. Almost 85% of physiotherapists have joined the 2020-2021 agreement. Although the membership rate is declining, it remains high. The question is to what extent the –25% rule is an important argument for the high rate of convention. This is a question on which little research has been done. In the new 2021 agreement, which was unanimously concluded on 22 December by representatives of physiotherapists and insurers, it was agreed that a report would be prepared for the insurance committee by 30 June, examining the relevance of the –25% rule and taking into account the necessary protection and the preservation of accessibility for patients. In this context, alternative solutions will need to be formulated to promote the agreement of care providers. This report will be prepared in collaboration with other sectors. I await this report before taking any action. In no way will I take measures which would lead to a reduction in the rate of agreement. The opposite is my objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u70	Minister, thank you for the answers you have provided. I'll follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u71	Mrs Van Peel is asking for the creation of a NIP test register and follow-up. I don't have any plans to develop that. My services also did not receive any questions or signal any needs from those concerned. Moreover, it is not a simple question, because there are some difficult legal issues involved. A feasibility study should at least be launched. To perform a non-invasive prenatal test, blood is taken from the mother. After all, there is also a little bit of fetal DNA circulating in it. To find a sufficiently high foetal fraction in maternal blood, pregnancy should be approximately 12 weeks. There is consensus on this in the scientific world. If the test is performed at 10 weeks of pregnancy, the result becomes less or not even more reliable. The nomenclature is clear: the test is carried out on a mother's blood sample from the 12th week of pregnancy. Code 23 of the nomenclature also states that the test can only be prescribed by the doctor following pregnancy. The doctor following pregnancy is considered to know the duration of pregnancy, as well as the scientific arguments for a reduction in maternal blood at 12 weeks of pregnancy. By analogy with the other benefits in kind provided for in Article 33a, the invoice shall contain only administrative data and not the duration of pregnancy, which could lead to privacy issues. I assume that doctors will follow the guidelines laid down in the nomenclature. As regards the reimbursements, the NIP test has been reimbursed by the health insurance company since 1 July 2017. Given the billing deadlines, it is still too early to report definitive figures for 2020. In 2019 101.793 tests were carried out in Belgium. If that is what you want, I can give you a more detailed table; it does not make much sense to read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u72	Minister, I am surprised by your statement that there is no need to check what is being done with the test. In the end, it was a fairly big decision at the time. For the record, it was a good decision, I'm a big supporter of the refund of the NIP test. That's not where the discussion is. It does not seem to me to be an insignificant matter to determine what the consequences are and how this test is used in a particular decision-making process, especially in the light of an ethical debate, namely that on abortion, which is undoubtedly still under discussion in this legislature. I find your argument regarding medical privacy a little strange. Protection of privacy does not prevent data from being kept in many areas. Of course, what happened, where and when should not be visible on the name. It's never like that. I hope that this need will still arise, because I find it strange that there is no register and that there is no record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u73	Minister, a new tobacco legislation came into force on 1 January. In the meantime, a fact has been added. The Flemish expertise centre Alcohol and other Drugs (VAD) has indicated that the use of drugs among young people, as well as smoking, has increased. Are additional controls planned with the introduction of this new legislation? If so, are any results available? How much additional resources will be provided for these checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u74	Tobacco advertising is continuously monitored throughout the year, but extra attention will be paid to it during the first months of this new year. The Consumer Products Inspection Service of the FPS Public Health has therefore planned additional controls. These additional controls are twofold: on the one hand, to see whether the strengthened legislation has been followed and, on the other hand, to adjust if necessary. It's too early to draw conclusions. However, I can tell you that last month there was a reconnaissance, not only to see what adjustments have already been made, but also to remind traders of the imminent entanglement. The inspection service informed me that the tobacco sector has already made adjustments. The service will now consider where it may need to be adjusted. The current team of the inspection service currently has sufficient manpower to carry out these checks. Additional resources are not provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it is a good idea that before the amended legislation in the sector, there has already been a passage through to bring this to the fore. This is a way of preventing infringements. It is a pity that figures are not yet available. I'll be sure to get them. Then we can follow this up here. We hope that the checks will also take account of where they are being carried out. It's a file I've been following up on for a while. I notice that these controls are carried out a bit machinefully in the different sections, while there are many more infringements in certain sectors and sub-areas. For example, there are regional differences. I will wait for the new figures, but I hope that checks will be carried out most frequently in the regions and sectors where most infringements are committed. I think that is how we use the resources available for the controls in the best way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u76	Mr President, Minister, the number 1733 was introduced to allow patients to make a free connection with a general practitioner in their region. In 2016 it was already announced that the number 1733 would be in force as soon as possible throughout our country. I understand from your recent communication that the rollout is slowing down and that even in 2021 we will not be able to roll out that song throughout our country. That, of course, creates inequality. In some regions the number 1733 is already active and patients can contact their general practitioner free of charge, not in other regions. That is why I am asking for a state of affairs. For the specific questions, I refer to the text of my question which has been tabled. I hope that this roll-out can be speeded up so that inequalities in care can also be eliminated in the area of emergency numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Farih, the roll-out of the emergency number 1733 has indeed been phased out. The final goal is to roll out phase 2 across the territory. The call ends at this stage in the emergency power stations where the severity of the demand for aid is assessed by the operators by telephone. About 53% of municipalities and 34% of citizens are already in phase 2. In phase 1, the call is delivered to the local general practitioner's watch station without the intervention of the operators. About 36% of municipalities and 47% of citizens are in phase 1. Some 11% of the municipalities and 18% of the citizens are not yet members of 1733. These GPs can connect to 1733 in phase 1 on simple request, provided they meet the following conditions. Firstly, the post must be available and accessible from Friday evening 6 p.m. to Monday morning 8 a.m. and optionally also on weekdays between the same hours. Secondly, there must be someone in the waiting post who will answer the call. Thirdly, the number to which it is forwarded must not be a paying number or a number at a sunny rate. In this way, the remaining municipalities could also be helped. The 1733 system is offered to general practitioners as a service provided by the federal government. There is no obligation to connect to the system. Some of the general practitioner's guards do not wish to switch to the 1733 system because it does not allow to support paying numbers in the general practitioner's wards. Other GPs do not see any added value in switching from their current number to 1733 and prefer to wait for a roll-out of phase 2 to switch. For the entire deployment of phase 2 there is a lack of operators in the emergency power station. These operators are staff of the FPS Home Affairs, financed through a budget at the FPS Health Department. The staffing framework has two problems: the Home Office has problems filling in the staffing framework, and to support a full deployment the staffing framework needs to be further extended. We are working on solutions, but it is difficult to set a concrete date today on which the staffing framework will be sufficient to allow phase 2 to roll out throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u78	Mr President, Minister, have I understood correctly that the resources come from the Public Health Office and that the staffing framework is organised by the Home Office? Can you confirm that there are enough resources to do that roll-out? Where exactly is the problem? Is there a problem with the Home Office or is it also a lack of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u79	The essential problem lies in the staffing framework and the completion of the staffing framework, both of them. That is at least my understanding of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u80	Several dental software packages have recently offered a discharge and harmonisation document that can be used for treatments for which there is no or limited intervention by the RIZIV. It must also be given in an e-attest or in a third-payer scheme. It can therefore be submitted to the various insurance institutions to obtain reimbursement outside the nomenclature. On whose initiative did the document come? Was the issue discussed with the insurance institutions? Will they also have to accept the document? Was that communicated to the dentists? Categories were defined for the parodontology components, but were they described exhausively and dependable? What exactly are they implying? Are there tariffs attached to this too? Will an e-attest and other applications require a document to be printed in the future, or is there only electronic communication with insurance institutions and with the patient in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u81	The document is an initiative of the National Committee on Dentists-Sickness Funds. The national agreement 2020-2021 provides for point 2.4 as follows: "Insurers shall continue to harmonise administrative documents in the context of supplementary insurance in line with the development of the modalities of electronic invoicing, as defined in point 2.2 (b).' The document is intended for the supplementary insurance of insurance undertakings, which have undertaken to accept the document as a billing form. Most of the additional insurances are implementing or have already implemented the form in their software. The form has been published on the RIZIV website and is also implemented by certain dental software to facilitate its use. The parodontology section covers the main benefits covered by the supplementary insurance. For the benefit component that is not reimbursed by the RIZIV, no fees have been set, as those benefits are not covered by the compulsory health insurance. In order to define the content of the first documentary examination, reference may be made to the oral examinations referred to in Article 5 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind. However, the conditions laid down in Articles 5 and 6 of the Nomenclature, such as the age limit prior to the performance of benefits, must not be fulfilled unless the supplementary insurance requires other conditions. The document in question may also be used as evidence outside the invoicing for supplementary insurance, in particular in the context of electronic invoicing, where the practitioner is required to provide evidence to the patient. With regard to the electronic transmission of the evidence to the patient, there is already a solution to send the evidence to the patient's e-box Citizen, but dental software companies need to implement that solution in their program to make it usable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u82	A uniform document is certainly a very good thing. I'm a parodontist myself, and I have to deal with it very often. Until now, the problem has always been that each insurance institution had its own document, with its own breakdown of treatments. The problem with parodontology is that there are a lot of treatments that are necessary outside the nomenclature. Actually, there's no definition of a lot of treatments. You refer to the oral examination, which could be compared with the oral examination, which is classified, but there are other things, such as oral hygiene control and what it means. That is actually very annoying, because that way we always have to place a certain achievement in a particular subject, where it sometimes just doesn't belong. In any case, a debate should be held on whether much can be improved in the field of parodontology and parodontal care, which should result in greater clarity and better reimbursement, preferably through ordinary health insurance. A lot of supplementary insurance does see it as an advantage that not so much performance is reimbursed. It seems unfair to me to the patient who's dealing with it. I understand that paperless work is not yet coming, but I hope that will be worked on in the future. I always find it a little crazy to make an e-attest and still have to print a document to give to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u83	I had raised a question not long ago about the mortality rate of medical accidents in hospitals. Your services informed me that the latest figures date from 2016. By now, we're already five years later. How is it that registration is so slow and how is it that we do not have available figures from 2017 to 2020? Where can I possibly collect the figures? If you don't have them, I don't know where to look myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u84	You ask if there are any figures from 2017 to 2020. We have different data sources for the years requested. Mortality is followed in Belgium from different angles and by different government departments. Firstly, the most obvious follow-up is the crisis monitoring of the daily covidmorality by Sciensano. Secondly, both Statbel and Sciensano also publish global mortality rates for all causes from the national register on a weekly basis. Within two weeks of the reference week, such data shall be made national as well as international. Statbel integrates this flow of data within its statistical device based on administrative data, including the census, with the aim of further unlocking the data for scientific research. Thirdly, in addition to those detailed global mortality statistics, cause-specific mortality is monitored. Several actors and policy levels are involved in the collection of this data: the medical sector, the municipalities, the regional actors and the federal level. Those statistics shall be provided within the two-year European deadline. This means that the data for 2018 will soon be expected, with a slight additional delay due to the impact of the covid crisis. You ask where the figures can be consulted or requested. I can give you the links with the detailed data I've just given you, but I suggest that my collaborator deliver it to you, because it's a long list of urls. Why is it taking so long for more recent figures to be available? How come the latest figures are four years old? Statbel initially invested in accelerating and, above all, expanding data flows on the basis of the National Register. For mortality statistics all causes result not only in the weekly figures mentioned above, but also in data that provide insight into, among other things, the social dimension of the covid crisis and mortality in general. There is an interesting study by the Faculty of Economics of the KULeuven, in which you will find more explanation. I can get you the URL. The complexity of the data collection at the basis of the cause-specific mortality rates implies that an in-depth analysis is available for a sustainable reform of those data flows.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am aware that we can find a lot of information at Statbel, but the cause-specific mortality is not easy to find there. I hope that there will be an acceleration in this, because it is important to follow these figures. Four years seems a long time to me. If we do not have figures until 2016 until 2021, it seems to me that things are working a little too slowly. I hope that there will be a digital solution to better connect the services concerned so that we can work with recent figures if we want to investigate certain problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u86	Minister, the use of vitamins and supplements has increased enormously in 2020. The corona virus would have contributed to this, because people spend much more time boosting their immune system. In the third quarter of 2020 an increase of 70% was even seen compared to the previous year. Sciensano apparently carries out screenings of suspicious supplements. What happens to those results? How many violations does Sciensano report annually? What kind of violations are we talking about? What will be the outcome if a violation is found? How many determinations do we make annually?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u87	Mrs Farih, Sciensano carries out screenings on behalf of the BFSA or the FAGG. In addition, Sciensano also analyses food supplements in the framework of scientific research. Over the past two years the following analyses have been carried out on food supplements: type of medicines, excluding vitamin-free amino acids or freely available antioxidants, prohibited active pharmaceutical components or designer molecules. Sciensano established exceedances of the statutory limit values. There were 109 findings in 289 samples examined. There were 7 out of 134 samples in the context of the annual market investigation. Research into polyaromatic hydrocarbons or packs resulted in zero determinations on eleven samples examined. In the case of PCBs, it was zero on two samples examined and in the case of arsenic one in seven samples examined. The results of the analyses commissioned by the FAGG or the BFSA will be communicated directly to the agency concerned, which will be responsible for the further follow-up and measures. For the samples on the Belgian market analysed in the framework of scientific research, the steviol glycosides for exceedances of the legal limit values in 2019-2020 had zero determinations on 28 samples examined. For cyanotoxins, the samples examined were 1 in 40 and for chlorinated paraffins they were zero on 3 samples examined. The result for pyrrolizidine alkaloids was 3 out of 61 samples examined and in arsenic 14 out of 43 samples examined. There were 11 out of 37 algae-based samples and 3 out of 11 clay-based samples and plants-based samples. In the case of analyses carried out in the framework of scientific research, the results are always notified to the BFSA when the legal limits are exceeded or in the event of a possible health risk. That will then guarantee further follow-up and action. In relation to the further follow-up and the measures in the field when the legal standard for food supplements is exceeded, I recommend that this question be put to my colleague Clarinval, since he has custody of the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u88	Is the follow-up of violations not happening at the FPS Health Department, under your supervision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u89	The BFSA falls within the competence of Mr Clarinval on this point. So you'll have to ask him. That division of powers may be surprising, but it's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u90	Thank you for the answer and we will continue with Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u91	Mr President, my question No. 55012039C has already been dealt with in the topical and urgent debate and therefore no longer needs to be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u92	Mr President, Minister, I have recently asked you in writing about the problem posed by the visa application of clinical orthopedagogues. Indeed, contrary to the measures established for clinical psychologists, article 68/2 of the Act of 10 May 2015 does not provide for a transitional measure for this category of professionals. This affects the recognition of the title and the profession, but also the smooth running of the training courses which provide the apprenticeships with a view to obtaining the professional title. In a recent committee, you told us that the problem had been raised in the inter-federal consultations between the Public Health FPS and the Communities. Nevertheless, at this stage there remain some 50 applications for orthopedagogic clinician visas that cannot be processed. The current proposals for transitional measures take account of the course of training, but not of the work experience acquired in the field. Could you, then, tell us how soon the next inter-federal consultation between the Public Health FPS and the Communities will take place? What are the answers given to the professionals whose file is still blocked? What are the transitional measures provided for at this stage? In concrete terms, do you intend to include skills enhancement in the planned transitional measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u93	Mrs Van Hoof is not yet here. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u94	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, I understand the concerns expressed about the absence of transitional measures for clinical orthopedagogues. This problem has already been pointed out to me by my administration and deserves special attention. As you know, no transitional measures are currently in place in the Health Education and Practice Laboratories (LEPS) and therefore cannot be applied. At present, my administration cannot answer for cases that do not comply with the legislation that they do not give access to a visa. However, my administration is taking a pragmatic approach today. It follows the recommendations of the ARES (Academie for Research and Higher Education) memorandum on the issue of visas. This note contains the list of diplomas that meet the criteria listed in the Royal Decree of 26 April 2019 laying down the criteria for the accreditation of clinical orthopedagogues as well as of traineeship masters (masters) and internship services. This means that persons who have completed training on this list may still be granted a visa. In addition, my administration advises the candidate who holds a diploma that is not mentioned in the note to apply for a certificate from the faculties of psychological and pedagogical sciences signed by the Dean, which confirms that the training taken meets the criteria mentioned in the royal decree of 26 April 2019 mentioned above. The problem arises mainly in the French Community, where the master's degree in clinical orhopedagogy does not yet exist. I would like to point out that the legislation dates back to 2015 and that several universities have already taken the necessary steps to meet the requirements of the law concerning the practice of clinical orthopedagogy. My predecessor has also repeatedly urged universities, where this is not yet the case, to follow their colleagues and also make the necessary adjustments. In the opinion of 28 March 2018 of the Federal Council of Mental Health Professions, concerning the accreditation criteria for professionals, internship supervisors and internship services for the clinical orthopedagogy discipline, transitional measures were formulated that can address existing concerns. For the time being, we are examining the conditions of the transitional measures for clinical orthopedagogues in order to find a solution. In this context, the exploitation of the experience gained in clinical orthopedagogia is envisaged for a certain group of graduates with experience in clinical orthopedagogia. This dossier has already been discussed with the community on several occasions, as part of an inter-administrative dialogue. It will also be submitted to the next meeting of the Public Health Intercabinets Working Group, which will meet on 27 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u95	Mrs. Van Hoof has arrived in the meantime. Mrs Taquin now has the floor for a reply. You have not been able to ask your question, Mrs Van Hoof, but you can, of course, still replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u96	Mr President, I thank the Minister. I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u97	Minister, I have heard that you will investigate the matter. You say it is mainly a matter on the Walloon side, but I was also contacted by, among other things, the University of Leuven. Two categories remain uncertain, namely the holders of the university degree in pedagogical sciences with a graduation degree other than that of orthopedagogy, and the holders of a university degree in clinical orthopedagogy in order to complete a four-year training course, especially for VUB. They're still in the dark. It would be good if this case could be resolved in the inter-kabinets working groups that are on the move. That solution was promised to them, even during the previous legislature, but it has been compromised by the current period. It is important that we have many mental health workers. This is an important category, especially for young people with specific problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u98	Mr Minister, on the advice of the PS Group, a resolution was adopted to encourage the creation of breast milk banks in hospitals and to lay down rules for their operation. The resolution calls on the government to develop a legal framework for the collection, storage, storage and distribution of breast milk and to provide specific funding to hospitals to build its own breast milk banks. An important element of the resolution is that a hospital per region would be encouraged to build a breast milk bank. I would like to ask the following questions, Minister. What initiatives have already been taken on the resolution? Are specific resources actually made available to a hospital per region? Can you indicate what steps have been taken since the resolution was adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u99	Mrs Van Hoof, no action has been taken on the implementation of this resolution in the previous legislature, but steps have to be taken to ensure that Flanders has a breast milk bank. I have therefore asked the administration to make a proposal on the basis of the resolution and to produce a timing of roll-out on the ground. No budgetary resources have yet been made available for this project, but that aspect will also be part of the proposal that the Public Health Office will submit to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u100	Minister, it is indeed important that we have a breast milk bank on both sides of the language border. That's for the sake of the child and the mother.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u101	Minister, I hope that I am in the right place with this question, because you just said in reply to Mr Farih that food supplements may be the responsibility of Minister Clarinval. This question has a specific medical approach. I don't know if you saw it, but if Siska Schoeters puts something on Instagram, that's news. She recently posted that she had received intravenous treatment with vitamin supplements. She immediately appeased everyone who asked herself questions, because she said that it was medically supervised, supervised by doctors. I read in the press that there are some reservations about this. The High Health Council considers this a dangerous trend and warns that in certain vitamins an overdose can have adverse effects. The Council rejects such infusions, while we see a growing trend of doctors prescribing them. Should we believe the doctors who prescribe it or should we follow the Supreme Health Council and get worried? Does that happen a lot? Is it right that it's a trend? What does your assessment say? Is it necessary to intervene, and in what way do you see it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u102	Mrs Creemers, you mentioned a trend, but I have to admit that I do not have any figures. My services have not been informed of this either. Should we intervene? Well, the risk of overdose exists for both oral and parenteral administration and it remains the responsibility of the physician to monitor this in his prescriptions. Another aspect is that the administration of these nutrients by parenteral means entails various risks. Parenteral solutions should be sterile and apyrogenic. A high level of quality assurance must therefore be maintained in production, as mistakes quickly have a major impact on the patient. Solutions for parenteral nutrition are therefore generally medicinal products. The authorisation and production process for medicinal products offers all these guarantees. Moreover, the regulation does not allow this to be considered a food, as it is taken orally. I will ask my administration to examine whether a legal framework is required for such parenteral products, if necessary in cooperation with other competent administrations. My services will also investigate whether the products concerned are not offered with therapeutic indications, which would immediately make them a medicinal product.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u103	Minister, I wanted to know whether we should be concerned when something like this is widely distributed. It was promoted on Instagram for tired mothers and fathers, as if everyone who is tired needed such a thing. It is therefore a good thing that you follow this up and, if necessary, provide a legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u104	Mr President, Minister, the Council of Ministers approved the amounts earmarked for the financing of the Medical Accidents Fund for 2016, 2017 and 2018. We have already discussed this fund in connection with an external audit, a report by the Court of Auditors and a Panoreportage. You yourself indicated that the operation of this fund is anything but optimal. You said you'd do an analysis, and you've already done an initial analysis. You'd be doing an extra, thorough analysis. You were expecting it by January. What are your findings today? What have you done? Following the KB for approval of the budgets, your services had additional contact with the people of the Medical Accidents Fund. Are there new conditions or agreements linked to the establishment of these budgets? Where do you stand on the proposed rewrite?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u105	Mr President, Minister, I have already interviewed you a few times about the Medical Accidents Fund, in committee, but also in plenary. The fact that there are some problems is an understatement. The Court of Auditors has even dedicated a whole book to it. In his 117th book, Part II on social security, it was also mentioned that the Fund carries far too heavy administrative costs and offers little solutions for the citizen. In fact, only 10% of the files actually give rise to compensation. Moreover, the waiting period is very long, up to 4.5 years. If you're in trouble, or if you have a problem, 4.5 years is very long to see the problem solved. In June 2020, the Court of Auditors published a separate report which gave rise to a series of questions that remained unanswered. There was also the Panoreportage, which fortunately has speeded everything up a bit. Following my question in plenary, you replied that you would be sitting with the Fund to see what could be done about it. That would take place in January. Where do you stand with that now? What measures will be taken to thoroughly reform the Fund so that it works properly? Will the Fund reopen files and call in the so-called MOZA, which I have already interviewed you about? Will account also be taken of a reasonable interpretation of the terms 'abnormal medical accident' and 'temporary incapacity of at least six months'?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u106	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Sneppe, the draft KB approved by the Council of Ministers is indeed about determining the amount to be paid to the Medical Accidents Fund for the period 2016-2018. In concrete terms, ex-post payments are made on the basis of expenditure realised. In view of the comments made by the Finance Inspectorate and the Secretary of State for the Budget, I have asked the Fund to submit the accounts and budgets more quickly in future. It is planned that the amount of the donation will now be submitted annually prior to the submission, followed by an ex post regularisation via a Royal Decree. Therefore, I asked the Fund to prepare drafts of KB as soon as possible to regularise the amount for 2019 and 2020, and to commit the amount for 2021, based on the draft budget of 2021. With regard to your question concerning the proposed redrafting, which was also made by Mrs Sneppe, I hope to be able to explain it more shortly. I actually did what I said. Last week, I did get a little late. At the beginning of December, I had a first meeting with the Chairman and Vice-President of the Fund's Management Committee and with the Commissioner for RIZIV and the Fund. We made a new appointment because I asked for additional analysis and action lines. That appointment was fixed on January 13th, but I had to move it to next week because of coviduality. However, I will keep you informed of developments. Mrs Sneppe, you are asking if I will reopen FMO files and call in the so-called MOZA or Medical Accident Without Liability. You ask a number of questions. You know that one of the things that worries us greatly is the important backlog of the FMO. The reopening of all the files is therefore not very timely. Priority shall be given to cases for which no opinion has yet been delivered. It goes without saying that the Fund will not insist on its advice if an appeal is brought and the opinion goes against the case law that exists in the meantime. The case law is neither simple nor unambiguous. The Fund must follow that case law closely and adapt its practice on the basis of case law, which in practice indeed leads to a broader interpretation of the concept of Medical Accident Without Liability. That is the legal side of the matter, which is very complex. However, there is also a real problem with the huge backlog that the Fund has built up, and hence with the operation of the Fund. That is actually what I want a plan of action for. We have taken steps forward in this respect. As I pointed out, I normally had an important meeting on the issue on 13 January 2021. I had to postpone them. However, I hope to be able to keep them next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The most important thing, of course, is that steps should be taken forward. After all, the victims are waiting. The fact that you choose to submit the budgets more quickly and make a thorough analysis of them is no more than the normal course of action. That should have been the case for years. After all, we are faced with a fund that costs more than it pays out to victims, whereas it really is intended that the victims can obtain what they are entitled to in a rapid and efficient way. You say you will return to Parliament. I hope that it will then be for a proper parliamentary debate and that we will get the files in time so that we can go through them and work on them in a good and thorough way, so that there will be a thorough revision of that fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u108	Minister, you have already sat together, that is, of course, a step in the right direction; we must start somewhere. It seems, however, that this has not been very successful. Maybe it was just the strings dialing. It's good that something is being done. You're saying the rewrite's coming up soon. What's your time frame? What's "soon" for you? For me, that's tomorrow. You also say that you will keep us informed of evolution. I do hope that it will be through a good debate and that you will indeed do so, that it will not be empty words. I am, of course, sorry that the reopening of the old files is difficult. I do understand that it is difficult with the delay. That is, of course, a vicious circle. In fact, you are calling on all those people who have had little support in the past to appeal or apply themselves and then to reopen those files themselves, of which you are aware. You're calling in the so-called MOZA. This can be dealt with more thoroughly and used more frequently, because identifying a culprit or responsible for the medical error is very difficult for the patient. That would be some sort of way out of which he could reap the benefits. Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna keep telling you. I hope you'll keep us informed. Otherwise, we're gonna have to ring the bell.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u109	Mr President, Minister, contraception is a major issue in terms of equality. In addition to the biological and hormonal effects of the pill, the IUD or other methods of female contraception, the mental and financial burdens on women's shoulders are enormous. The use of male contraception, apart from the external condom, is very marginal. In Belgium, according to the Federation of Family Planning Centres for Socialist Women, two methods of male contraception are recognized by the health authorities: the external condom and the vasectomy. Other methods are either on trial or already available, but are not yet recognized or marketed. This would require more costly Phase 3 studies. However, the pharmaceutical industry does not seem interested in investing in this research. BioPharma Mithra's boss declared last November that there was no market for male contraception, without being opposed to its development on principle. Minister, what are the methods on trial and which are available but not yet recognized? What reasons, other than the investments of BioPharma companies, explain this situation? Are there any recognitions on the agenda? Finally, does the government have an ambition in this area, specifically with regard to the financial management of male contraception?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u110	Mrs Zanchetta, my services are not informed about these methods of contraception. In fact, neither AFMPS nor INAMI are themselves conducting or funding such research. They are also not aware of any files that are still pending. With regard to the reimbursement of male contraception, it is only possible to examine the issue on the basis of a concrete product which is placed on the market. On the basis of the limited information currently available, we cannot, of course, make a statement in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u111	Minister, I am a little surprised at the lack of information; but I imagine it is necessarily difficult to say when there is not yet a proven and recognized contraceptive. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u112	Minister, Belgium has about 80,000 people with autism spectrum disorder. Each year, approximately 850 new cases are detected. The intervention of a logopede constitutes an important part of the individual support of people with autism, given their communication difficulties. However, this care is not reimbursed for young autists, who have all the problems of communication. As you know, the law of May 8, 2019 changes the coverage of logopedia services. It was therefore necessary to adopt a royal decree on multidisciplinary research in connection with the Commission de convention entre les logopedes et les organismes insurers. Mr Minister, I have already asked Mrs De Block, who informed us that the Convention Commission had not yet reached an agreement in this framework. What about today? Could you please inform us about the implementation of the May 2019 law? Has multidisciplinary research, particularly on the part of the rules for the cumulation of monodisciplinary logopedia benefits with multidisciplinary rehabilitation for children with IQ below 86, started? If so, what are the modalities of this research? If not, when can it begin? Could the IQ criterion be revisited in the long term to finally give all these children access to health care? What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u113	Mr Rigot, in answer to your question, I can inform you of the following. First, it should be noted that the claim that children affected by this condition of intellectual quotient do not receive logopedic care is not correct. This limit, an intellectual quotient of 86 or more, is fixed for the management of the monodisciplinary logopedia within the scope of the nomenclature of the services of logopedia and relates in this context only to the management of the developmental disorders of oral language and dysphasia. Other logopedic disorders included in the nomenclature are not affected by this exclusion. In other words, this criterion is not a condition for intervention in monodisciplinary logopedia for the rest of the nomenclature. Your question also mentions the special cases of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) for whom a specific exclusion, distinct from the condition of the intellectual quotient, appears in the nomenclature of the monodisciplinary logopedia when the logopedic disorder is related to a psychiatric or emotional condition (see Article 36, § 3). On this question distinct from the intellectual quotient aspect, the Commission of Conventions has been sensitized for several years and, over the past few months, has been consulting with experts on the problem of the TSA in an attempt to find a solution for children carrying them who otherwise fulfil the other conditions of the monodisciplinary nomenclature. The aim would therefore be to allow children with ASD to be cared for in a monodisciplinary nomenclature by adapting the nomenclature, not by creating a specific point concerning exclusively these children – because the ASD is not a logopedic disorder in itself – but by redrafting the exclusion criterion which, on its own, prevents children who otherwise fulfil the other conditions of access to the intervention, from benefiting from the nomenclature treatment. As regards the intellectual quotient condition 86 or more, the reason for this is that for these children, multidisciplinary treatment is better suited and has a greater chance of success than monodisciplinary treatment. Therefore, the intention is to direct the child towards the best solution. In concrete terms, these multidisciplinary treatments take place in outpatient rehabilitation centres, formerly called "ORL-PSY centres", where patients are divided into target groups based, in particular, on their intellectual quotient. It is clear that there are not enough structures involved, that they are dispersed and unevenly distributed geographically, that they have sometimes long waiting lists or that they offer less intensive support than desired. In relation to these findings, I do not have competence in the areas concerned, in particular outpatient rehabilitation centres – since 1 January 2019, these are entirely within the competence of the federated entities following the sixth reform of the State – specialized education and education in general or the support of persons with disabilities, which have been, for a longer time, the competence of these federated entities, namely the Regions or Communities. With regard to the proposed multidisciplinary study, it has not yet been initiated and the crisis of coronavirus has of course only added to the difficulties of implementing such a study. The law of 8 May 2019 stipulates that the King must determine the rules of cumulation between monodisciplinary logopedic treatments, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, multidisciplinary rehabilitation for children with an intelligence disorder defined as a performance or non-verbal IQ or QD (developmental quotient) of 86 or more, specifically concerning children with dysphasic disorder. The Royal Decree in question is not yet drafted because the multidisciplinary study is intended to determine whether all or part of the children who do not meet these criteria set out in the multidisciplinary nomenclature could nevertheless have access to it by combining this multidisciplinary treatment with the multidisciplinary rehabilitation to which they can already have access. Since the Commission of Conventions does not have the technical or budgetary means to carry out such a study, the outline of which is not precisely defined, it has been envisaged to consult the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) to which such a study could be entrusted. However, the aim is to bring into line the regulations relating, on the one hand, to multidisciplinary treatments including logopedia, hence the treatments provided mainly in outpatient rehabilitation centres, which, as mentioned above, are definitively transferred to the exclusive competence of the federated entities, and, on the other hand, to the monodisciplinary logopedia treatments in nomenclature, which are still within the competence of the compulsory insurance federal health care. Coordination can be complex as a result of this division of competences. In addition, while the starting hypothesis is to make the conditions for access to federal health care insurance for monodisciplinary logopedia more or less flexible for patients who can already be cared for by multidisciplinary centres, caution must be exercised as to the budgetary effects that would result and would relate unilaterally and only to federal health care insurance. These effects are, of course, currently inquantifiable, as long as the number of patients who would become eligible for cumulation is not known, this number being linked to the findings of the study and the possibility of easing the cumulation criteria. That is my answer, which I hope is informative if I do not conclude on this issue, which, as you say, is important and which concerns many people and parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u114	Minister, thank you for your detailed and very technical answer. I won't fail to read it again in the next few hours. These are indeed important concerns. Autism is a wealth, an expression of a difference. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that the people concerned are truly included at every level of power, whether at federal or federal level, through the development of reference centres, and by ensuring that autistic children have access to and stay in mainstream education. But I am also thinking about the accessibility of care and therefore the costs that you mentioned. It is true that this care represents a cost to our health care, depending on the strategies put in place. However, I am convinced that this will allow these children to exist and provide real support to parents. It is also a real investment for our society in order to enable the development, in full autonomy, of these children who will be able to benefit our society from their qualities through their future actions. The question is important. I will therefore come back to you once I have considered your answer. I hope that, since I come back with this issue on a recurring and rolling basis every year, a solution can be found in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u115	Mr President, Minister Saint-Vincent, the Antwerp hospital of the GZA group, discovered last October that a mistake had been made in the maintenance of a device that was piloting an endoscope disinfection bath. The technician exchanged two tubes during the connection of the device, which may have resulted in poor sterilization of the devices. As a result of this error, about 100 patients are at risk of being infected with hepatitis B or HIV. All received a letter inviting them to take a free blood test within six months. According to the spokesman, infection would be the worst scenario. According to the same spokesman, although the devices are cleaned after use, the hospital cannot guarantee that no infection has developed. The GZA Group intends to prosecute the manufacturer who made the mistake. Minister, can you take stock of this issue? What additional information do you have? Have any infections been detected? In case of infection, what are the protocols? Can you guarantee, in case of infection of patients, that they will be fully cared for? What is planned for any compensation? How are quality controls in hospitals usually organised for this type of equipment? Are such problems common? If so, do you have figures in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u116	There was also a question on this from Mrs Farih, but she is not present at the moment. I suspect she went to another committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u117	Mrs Farih asked me a little more specific questions, but I will begin by answering Mr Prévot's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u118	Do at your best, minister, I will adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u119	As the management of this file is still ongoing, the information currently available should be carefully examined. This is, in fact, an incident connected to an apparatus called a "washer-disinfector". After the first steps of rinsing and cleaning, endoscopes are then treated with this device to obtain superior quality disinfection. A tracking system identifies the devices in which each endoscope has been placed. The hospital concerned carried out an analysis of the incident without delay and implemented a situation management which, at this stage, appears to be in line with the recommendations of the Higher Health Council. He has organized consultations with the company that provided the defective washing-disinfector. Upon suspicion of the incident, the aircraft concerned was removed from the sterilization circuit. The hospital has three other disinfectors that have no defects. The quality control of the rinse water carried out immediately after the occurrence of the incident indicated that no germ could be detected on any of the four aircraft. Epidemiological analysis of the incident suggests that the infectious risk to the patient is very low. Similarly, the manufacturer believes that the consequences of the incident should be minimal because the two disinfectants used were present but, in proportion, inappropriate because of the inversion of the pipes. The hospital conducted a retrospective analysis of the incident, which enabled it to identify patients in gastroenterology and pneumonology services who could be examined using the disinfected endoscopes in the failing device. These patients were contacted by mail in December and were invited to follow a medical surveillance process. Serological titrations are performed to detect the possible occurrence of viral infections. The report of this first follow-up stage is not yet available. It appears that the manufacturer of the device is on the verge of recognizing its share of responsibility in the incident. This step involves the head office of the company in the United States. The respective assurances of the two parties have been mobilised and will determine how victims should be cared for and compensated if necessary. The firm has already taken steps to adapt the manufacture of its equipment by making it impossible to reverse the pipes supplying the disinfection pipes. In addition, the firm also organizes a communication with its clients to draw their attention to the precautions to be taken to avoid this type of incident. The sterilization of medical equipment is based on a series of steps that require quality equipment, operational conditions, adequate preparation and a high level of technical competence. The occurrence of incidents during a stage should be minimized as much as possible, and the consequences compensated or limited by the rigorous application of the procedures provided for at all other stages of the series. Following on from Mrs Farih's questions, I can also say that the maintenance of hospital equipment is strictly organised. The sterilization of medical devices is organized within the central sterilization department. The hospital pharmacy is responsible for setting up and maintaining the quality system, which is specific to the central sterilization department. She works closely with the hospital hygiene team and the hospital hygiene committee. The current normative framework is based mainly on Chapter 11 on sterilization of the Royal Decree of 15 December 1978 laying down special standards for university hospitals and hospital services and on the Royal Decree of 18 March 1999 on medical devices. All the other points are considerations of regulation. Of course, incidents or the identification of non-compliant situations must be reported and recorded internally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u120	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the investigation is continuing. That is, moreover, the reason why I used the conditional and that I share your caution. It is indeed necessary to remain cautious before drawing any conclusions. However, the additional information you have provided me is a bit of a comfort. Of course, we can imagine the anxiety of patients who received a letter in December, telling them that they were at risk of being infected with hepatitis B or even HIV. In any case, I hope that no unfortunate case will be declared because of this technical problem and that the company in question will acknowledge its wrongs – but it seems that this is in the process of being done – at least partially. Let us also hope that compensation will be provided, particularly for the hospital organization! I am already pleased that such risks of reversal will no longer arise and that the firm will therefore have retained the mistakes of the past. Thank you again for your answer, Minister. I will follow developments in the press or ask you a supplementary question in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u121	Minister, with the crisis, hospitals sometimes find it difficult to find staff. To remedy this, a very good initiative was born in the Sint-Trudo Hospital in Saint-Trond where Joris Brugmans and Dirk Vanstraelen developed an electronic platform called Paragon Medical which allows to cross offers and requests. It is open to all health-care facilities and makes it possible to make up for occasional absences and to increase structural capacity. In a few weeks, about 100 candidates have registered, mainly paramedics and nurses. Meanwhile, the interim company ASAP continued the development of the project and took over the administrative part by proposing daily contracts. Minister, in addition to the structural solutions to be offered to the health care sector, what do you think of this initiative to be able to apply for candidates if necessary? Do we have an up-to-date cadastre for health professionals who are still active, as well as for health professionals who have left the profession or who have been reoriented in the meantime? Would it be possible to include other profiles needed by the hospital community, such as administrative employees, to expand the pool of available skills? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u122	Mr Rigot, it seems to me that the use of new tools such as online platforms are interesting solutions. The crisis of the covid has certainly increased needs and made recruitment in a tense market more complex. With my administration, the Planning Commission is responsible for monitoring and planning the workforce of health professionals. It carries out, by occupation, the situation of the labour force by means of a data link between the cadastre of the health professionals entitled to exercise, the data of the INAMI and those of the Bank-carrefour labour market and social protection. In these reports, the occupation is described according to the active workforce, their full-time employment and the sector of activity by community, region and province. I therefore invite you to consult online the most recent publications, which describe in detail the methodology used. My answer contains complicated URLs. I therefore propose that my adviser forward them to you without delay. You can read the publications on this subject. These data are obtained by pseudonymization. The latest available data therefore have at least two years of lag compared to the current situation and provide information only in terms of staffing. We therefore do not have a real-time professional cadastre, which allows us to know which person is active to date and in which area of care. The Law on the Quality of Practice of Health Care of 22 April 2019 provides for a register of practices which will ultimately make it possible to have the activity of all health professionals with the latest data and in a nominative way. My administration is also looking at other avenues. The current cadastre lists only professionals in the right to practise with a visa and concerns only health professionals. I also invite you to consult the annual statistics. I'm asking my advisor again to send you the URL. The register of practices will also apply only to health professionals for whom the Public Health FPS has jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u123	Minister, thank you for your answer. I look forward to learning about this data. The current challenge is to have data that is up-to-date, constantly up-to-date. A few moments ago, you mentioned the fact that cadastres have a two-year latency. Two years is huge in a constantly moving context, in a context where the needs are enormous in the immediate future. The living forces are probably present, but we don't know. It is therefore important to be able to cross-check all this data in order to have the necessary support for the patient's bedside and also to relieve medical staff. Minister, I am counting on you to pay attention to this, obviously respecting the confidentiality of this data and respect for privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u124	Minister, I have already referred to this issue many times with your predecessor, but also with the presentation of your policy note and the government agreement. Indeed, recognize that the situation of medical assistants clinician specialists, the famous MACCS, is not simple. They have been largely in support since the covid crisis. This is not new, they have a special status. They do not contribute for their pension, for example. Given the number of years, this weighs significantly on the length of their professional careers. They are not entitled to unemployment etc. There is also the problem of the number of hours worked. I know that on this subject, a series of updates of the data collected at the level of the various hospitals have taken place. This situation has been known for years. Let us acknowledge that it is not correct with regard to these young graduate doctors who specialize! Reform is absolutely essential, in consultation, of course, with the doctors concerned. I stress the importance of bringing them a real status, if I can use that term. I'd like you to do the point. Yes or no, will we come out of the repeated announcements in recent years about their situation, without following correct and concrete achievements? Are you open to that? I agree with the fact that there is a substantive work being done by your various administrations, which have many other things to do with the covid crisis, but since the file is not dated today, it seems to me important to take stock of the situation and to set a timetable for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u125	I am very sensitive to the situation of doctors in training, a situation that you bring to our attention. The problem is complex and multifaceted and falls within the competence of various ministers, including my own. As regards the improvement of protection through social security, the national medical-mutualist agreement 2021 is important and has just been approved by the Council of Ministers. It includes an amount of 10 million earmarked for improving the social protection of doctors in training, without limiting net income. A concrete proposal will be drawn up before 31 March in consultation with the medical organizations in training concerned. In addition, the situation of the guards' compensations and a standardized training agreement are discussed in the National Joint Medical Hospital Commission, in response to a request for an opinion from the Minister De Block. These negotiations are under way under the chairmanship of Mr. From Cock and Mrs.Poncé, recently appointed in place of Mr.Facon. I'll keep you informed of developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u126	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, the 10 million envelope is not yet ventilated and affected. However, have guidelines already been established? Will the pension component be integrated into social status? I dare to hear that he will be a good figure in it. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention strongly to the compensation of the guards, by linking this aspect with the financial situation of the hospitals. Indeed, it would be inconceivable that, in view of their current funding, they would have to compensate the guards without any additional envelope. That is why it would be wise to compensate them. To this end, the state – which will conclude the negotiation and take the decision – must provide adequate funding to hospitals and general practitioners if they are to participate in the organisation of guards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u127	Minister, I have a question about transgender care and I would like to quote some figures from Professor T'Sjoen, head of the Centre for Sexology and Gender. Last year, 600 people joined the Centre for Sexology and Gender in the UZ Gent. That was a record. The waiting list is now 16 months and 1,300 people are currently receiving treatment. In 2020, 300 people started their journey. This may have to do with the slow removal of the taboo and the new Transgender Act of 2018. Professor TJSjoen says that there may also need to be a centre in other places, so that transgenders can be helped more widely across the territory. A comparison with the figures in the Netherlands confirms the need for an extension. In Amsterdam, for example, there are 100 applications every month, while in Ghent there are 54 applications now. So it can be assumed that at the moment we only see the tip of the iceberg. What is your view of this problem, Minister? Should other university or larger hospitals take on a similar role as in Ghent? A convention was agreed under the previous government. I'd like to know if it's being evaluated. Does that convention work well? Is everything being met? Finally, you quite rightly announced at the last committee meeting that much more money will go to psychological care, which we all agree on in our committee. Can these additional resources also be used for the problems mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u128	Firstly, the creation of a transgender service is not subject to specific recognition or to any programming criterion. It is not for the Minister of Health to determine where and how many of these centres can be set up. The RIZIV may conclude agreements with transgender care centres and thus finance the operation of such centres under health insurance. Within the available budget, RIZIV has concluded such agreements with the Transgender Care Centres of UZ Gent and CHU Liège. The conclusion of such an agreement implies actual recognition. However, it is not self-evident to conclude such an agreement with more centres. Centres with insufficient expertise and experience in this area are unlikely to be able to meet patients' expectations and are therefore not eligible for the conclusion of an agreement with the RIZIV Insurance Committee. For hospitals that have no expertise and experience in this area, it is not easy to build up the necessary expertise. Hospitals and doctors-specialists must be motivated in the first place. Secondly, you mentioned regional distribution. The convention Transgenderzorg was concluded by the RIZIV with both the UZ Ghent and the CHU Liège, but so far many more patients have been followed in Ghent than in Liège. The patients in Ghent are also monitored much more frequently than in Liège. I have to tell you, I don't really know how to explain these differences. Maybe it is part of the fact that Ghent has been very active in the field of transgender care for many years, has built up a lot of expertise and experience in this area and has gained a lot of fame in this way. The CHU Liège works with an almost completely new team, which has not been active in the domain for so long. As a result, the CHU Liège may be less able to provide an appropriate response to the patient's questions and therefore the transgender care of the CHU Liège is also less known to the patients. Of course, that doesn't imply a quality judgment on my part. Other factors may also play a role. Perhaps there is a difference in media attention between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking parts of the country. Media attention can be important to remove stigma and encourage people to seek help. Does the convention work well? Let's evaluate them. The Insurance Committee of the RIZIV has indeed concluded an agreement with the Transgender Care Centres of the UZ Gent and the CHU Liège on a proposal from the College of Medical Directors in 2017. The operation of the agreement shall be monitored through the annual reports of the centres, the expenditure booked by the centres and oral and written consultations between the College of Medical Directors and the centres. The available data show, among other things, that the CHU Liège is developing much less activities in the context of the agreement than the UZ Ghent, as has already been mentioned. At present, the UZ Ghent is also carrying out less activities under the agreement than it allows, thereby draining the resources provided for in the agreement, but in part. That is a striking observation for a centre that has long waiting lists. A partial explanation for this is certain that team members of the Centre spend more time with the supervision of existing patients than the guidance that can be reimbursed for the same patient on the basis of the agreement concluded in 2017. The counseling sessions that are carried out for a patient but cannot be charged because the maximum number of counselling sessions is already reached, explain to a large extent why the centre in Ghent does not exhaust the annual envelope of the agreement and yet has waiting lists. In addition, the team members of the centre should be able to achieve more counselling sessions within their working time than they have been able to achieve so far. In order to address the problems, the new agreement concluded with both centres, which entered into force retroactively on 1 October 2020, increased the number of eligible support sessions. For the same patient, a maximum of 40 counseling sessions can now be carried out. Before that, there were only 25. 30 sessions can be completed before the age of 16 and 25 sessions from the age of 16, without exceeding the absolute maximum of 40 sessions. The new agreement also extends plenary sessions better over time, by limiting the maximum number of counselling sessions per patient and per year to 8. As a result, the centre in Ghent should certainly be able to draw more revenue from the agreement, which, of course, can only benefit the operation. This may also allow more patients to receive effective guidance within the framework of the agreement per year. If an increase in the UZ Gent's annual envelope is necessary to reduce the waiting lists, then it will of course be examined whether this measure is a priority compared to other health needs, but since the UZ Gent is not currently exhausting its annual envelope, such an increase in the annual envelope is not really at issue. You relate that to our broader investment agenda in psychological care. Since 1 October 2020, the Convention on Transgender Care provides for the reimbursement of 40 interviews with a psychologist, sexologist, social worker or case manager. Nevertheless, it can be assumed that persons suffering from sexual problems or gender questions will not always contact a Transgender Care Centre immediately, but may first contact a healthcare provider in their environment. They can absolutely go to a first-line clinical psychologist for that. Access to such care is kept as low as possible, including by limiting the personal share to 11 euros per session and 4 euros in the event of an increased allowance. The additional mental health budgets made it possible to raise this offer and open it up to all age groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u129	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I note that the UZ Gent has to choose a little between quantity and quality and is basically the victim of its choice of solidity or thoroughness. In any case, you have outlined very clearly where we stand at the moment. We will take this with us and discuss it again with the two centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic339x.u130	The remaining questions will be postponed to our next non-covid session in two weeks.
