ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u2	Prime Minister, my municipality has 20,000 inhabitants. Your government's slug policy means that none of those residents, apart from the rest home residents and the care staff, have been vaccinated yet. Every weekend, that population doubles from 20,000 to 40,000. Now the Easter holiday arrives and 60,000 to 80,000 people are expected in the municipality of Middelkerke alone. I speak not only on behalf of the municipality of Middelkerke, I speak here today for the municipalities of De Panne to Knokke. You have decided, probably under pressure from the PS, to open the restaurant on May 1st, Fête du Travail. That is a huge problem off our coast. It is not just a huge problem for the catering industry, in which the salt water is already on the lips, it is mainly a health problem. Hundreds of thousands of people are brought in every week. They come by train, like sardines in a can, they can sit next to each other. They're spreading over the tram. They're coming in the car. They're coming to the healthiest air. There's room by the sea, that's no problem. On the train they can sit side by side, but on a chair on the terrace on the dike, that is impossible. I just have one question and it's an invitation. I invite you to come to the coast. I do so not only in my name but also in the name of other mayors, I call De Panne and I call Knokke, so that you can ascertain the absurdity of the current situation. Without opening the catering industry, we can't handle it. People need to go to the bathroom. People have to eat. People need to be served. That's why I'm asking you to do something for the catering industry to do something so that people can sit on the terraces. In the Netherlands there are 5,000 infections a day and next month they open the terraces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u3	Prime Minister, the timetable for relaxation that was announced last Friday is indicative, as you said. It depends mainly on the vaccination of the most vulnerable but also on the rapid tests, the indicators on which you absolutely must weigh to ensure that the prospects that have been announced are no longer uncertain but guaranteed. Today, only 6.7 per cent of the population over the age of 65 are vaccinated and have received both doses. For those under the age of 65 with co-morbidities, only the most serious cases can be vaccinated today. All the others will have to wait until 3 April because your government persists in this cooperation agreement which aims to cross-check medical data with those of mutualities, a task which, as we all know, is the responsibility of the Smals company which is also at the origin of this sinister Putting data at the center project. As far as rapid testing is concerned, we are nowhere, while pilot projects have been demonstrating their effectiveness for months. Prime Minister, are you able to ensure that the quick tests will be available during the Easter holidays? Will pharmacists be able to sell these tests? Will their price be reduced? Will self-tests be allowed? Will salivary tests be generalized? Will the recovery protocols contain rapid tests? If so, is the government committed to paying them back? Will vulnerable people be properly vaccinated by May 1? I am thinking not only of the elderly, but also of people with comorbidities. Will you finally allow general practitioners to vaccinate them and pharmacists to intervene to ensure that these vaccines are stored for them? Do you not believe that this solution deserves to be retained in the light of their experience, but also in view of the very clear danger that Smals represents today to our privacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u4	Big brother is watching you!, said George Orwell in 1948. Fundamental rights, freedoms and the right to privacy apply not only in times of peace, but also and especially in times of crisis. Then the citizen needs the government to protect him. Your path to freedom with your government runs over a very bumpy and, above all, unconstitutional trail. Yesterday, there was a devastating opinion from constitutional specialists on the preliminary draft of your pandemic law. Your government has really lost the pedals when it comes to the balance between fundamental rights, the right to social protection, the right to health and the right to privacy. Is there any privacy left in this country? Today, Le Soir reported on a kind of electronic crossroads bank where tax, medical, social and even criminal data can be combined. Big Frank is watching you! You as Prime Minister, but also Minister Vandenbroucke, remain too much on the plain. That's what worries us. May we expect a Liberal Prime Minister to climb the barricades when it comes to rights, freedoms, privacy and personal data of all citizens of this country, without exception. We ask you to take a stand now! If there's anyone who might know, it's you, Prime Minister. Otherwise, we'll have another big problem. How will you get out of that terrible Bermuda triangle your government is in, between Constitution, ECHR and GDPR legislation? Are you prepared to organise a hearing in the Committee on the Constitution, in the Committee on Home Affairs or in the Committee on Justice, in order to address that problem? A very simple question, did you know about the data project I just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, we called it our best wishes, and last week you finally announced a timetable and prospects for all sectors that are still at a standstill. Among them is the Horeca. The Horeca is dying, you know that. The Horeca hoped to be able to reopen at Easter but a date was advanced, always conditional and indicative: May 1st. For the horeca sector, this May 1st is vital. They still have two months to survive. It won't be possible for everyone. It is really important, now, to think about them and make sure to support them. If there's still two months to go, you have to help them. More action is needed. Prime Minister, I have several questions about that. There's a Codeco on March 26th. Is it still possible for the horeca sector to be able to reopen before 1 May, and possibly at Easter, as they still hope? If so, under what conditions will the Horeca be reopened? It's really fundamental. We have no indication yet. Under what conditions? What will be the protocol? Will it be strict? Will they be able to reopen? Financially, will this be sustainable? The Walloon government will normally announce additional aid today. Will the federal follow? Will there be cash flow measures? Will there be aid in proportion to turnover? Will there be aid for the payment of premiums? This was the case in 2020: the government had intervened for the end-of-year premiums. Could the federal government still intervene for all future bonuses? I'm thinking of the holiday money. [[...]] [[mic cut]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u6	Prime Minister, there has just been talk of privacy. As a liberal, this will be very close to your heart, just like fundamental rights, I hope. Today, Professor Devos spoke about the trivialisation of fundamental rights. That must be of great concern to us. In this context, may I urge you to distinguish between the acute phase at the start of a pandemic, in which far-reaching measures are taken that actually have an impact, and a phase in which we may allow such measures to go through a little too easily automatically. I'm thinking about the next Easter vacation. When the weather gets nice, people come out. It's not supposed to drive them back in robberies. The question is whether we can let that moment run out of order, for example on terraces. This gives more opportunities to enjoy good weather in an orderly manner than in the public domain. I'm thinking of opening the borders. Someone who moves on the Flemish coast or someone who moves on the Zeeland coast, does that involve more epidemiological risks or not? We want an answer to that, because people ask those questions too. Of course, I also mention the theme of the night clock. You are a liberal and the chairman of your party has asked for a parliamentary debate on that night clock. We are giving colleagues today the opportunity to hold this parliamentary debate. I would like to hear from you that you support Parliament's expressing its views on such fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u7	Prime Minister, I am concerned about our democratic rights, which are increasingly being abrogated in the name of the fight against coronavirus in our country. This concern has been expressed by the PTB for at least one year. This is, moreover, one of the reasons why we did not want to grant special powers to the government, even at the beginning of the pandemic. Indeed, even in such a period, there is no justification for restricting democratic rights; there is no justification for granting such power only to the government. And it's not fiction! Prime Minister, I want to question you about such serious intrusions as the curfew issue. How can we continue to accept a government's own decision to prohibit any form of mobility between 10:00 p.m. (or midnight) and 6:00 p.m.? I have just said, "a government", but that is not true: it is a government minister who decides. A ministerial order can therefore impose curfew on an entire country. Such a measure is only taken in times of war! And today we are allowing it to be taken, without any democratic debate, including in Parliament! There is no debate on such an important issue! Moreover, the effectiveness of curfews is not even proven. How? In Brussels, it starts at 10 p.m., while in the rest of the country it starts only at midnight! And the figures don't even differ from Region to Region! What, then, is this for reasoning? Prime Minister, my mailbox explodes with mail sent by citizens concerned about the pandemic law. Indeed, the experts clearly explain that this is unconstitutional. In the name of the lack of management of this crisis, you will further restrict our democratic rights. My question will be very clear, Prime Minister: will you ask for the curfew to be lifted and return to the pandemic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday's Consultative Committee made it very clear what we are at. We see that the epidemiological figures and the sanitary situation in our country have actually remained stable over the last four months thanks to clear rules that people could understand and which were also respected. The vast majority of people have complied with these measures. That is the only reason why we have managed to avoid a third wave in our country so far. Many of you in this hemisphere have rightly asked for perspective, for a roadmap, for an approach. Last Friday, after that Consultative Committee with all the governments of our country, we were able to present that roadmap together and explained the path we need to follow in order to re-establish the thread of our former lives. In the beginning, the emphasis is placed on activities outside. That's important. Outside the risk is not zero, but it is a lot lower than in activities inside. In May there is a possibility to do more business, for example by using ventilation, protocols and quick and self-tests. The priorities are very clear. They lie in mental well-being, among young people and in education. We know that a lot of young people are having a hard time. We know, for example, that ensuring that holiday camps can continue is a very useful and important measure. It's a balancing exercise. I think everyone understands that it can go in the right direction as well as in the wrong direction. That is why we are emphasising the fact that we need to do this step by step and be careful. The biggest mistake we could make is acting hastily, thinking we're out of the danger zone, not following the roadmap and suddenly doing everything at once. There is a reason for that roadmap, there is a reason why we have to say that we still have to be careful during the month of April and see how we get through that month of April before we can take a next step. Mr Dedecker, I have had a great deal of contact with individual catering operators and with the sector federations of the catering industry. Of course, it's a very diffuse image. The catering sector is a very varied sector. The main message I received was "open as it can be opened, both inside and outside." The choice to only open outside would be in favour of some but very heavy at the disadvantage of others. When it is opened, it must be ensured that everything is in order and that it can be perfectly organized. The preference of the federations was rather to do it all together. It seems logical to me to do so at the beginning of May. Mrs Reuter, we will make an assessment on 26 March, but we must take into account that it can go both ways. On the subject of curfew, as chairman of the Consultation Committee, I can only conclude that, last Friday 5 March 2021, no government put the abolition of curfew on the table. No government has put that item on the table. It is a measure which is part of a larger whole. I've always been very clear. Very intrusive measures such as curfew, but just as much as the measure that determines how many people are allowed to enter your home are measures that we will not last a day too long. As soon as the measure is no longer necessary, we will lift it. As far as vaccination is concerned, Mrs Rohonyi, as you know, the vaccination campaign is a collective effort, with the different governments that each play their part and do their best to move vaccination forward as quickly as possible, knowing that the logistics that is being set up are complex. At the meetings of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, several problems were identified, particularly with regard to the roles of each. Week after week, you're asking questions about vaccination here, and that's very good. I am always willing to answer that question. But it is not only in this place that questions about this need to be asked. The responsibilities are diverse and collective, and the goal of accelerating the pace of vaccination is clearly collective. With regard to the Horeca, we have taken steps, in particular, to extend the double bridge right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u9	Prime Minister, your speaking time is over. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u10	I would like to, Madam President, but I would like to add questions for which no time is added. I want to try to answer five minutes, but that's very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u11	Members asked for the government's speaking time to be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u12	If you want me to leave it at that, I'll leave it at that. The choice is yours, but I have not been able to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u13	That is the choice of the Chamber, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u14	I'll try to answer if you'll allow me. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u15	Mr Hedebouw has pointed this out a few times... In all honesty, I think the questioning session should have been split into two. Those five minutes are regulated. I am not in favour of an amendment to the Rules of Procedure in this respect, but there is freedom and space, if circumstances so require, for the government to decide on all the questions that have been asked. In the replies, therefore, the questioners can be given the opportunity to respond more broadly. This technique has been used well in the past, both by President Bracke and by President Dewael, and it has always worked very well in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u16	Madam President, if I may, I will respond quickly to the questions so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u17	It is wrong to say that this has not happened in the past. In the past, as Members of Parliament, we had more than two minutes' speaking time and we were not silenced. I believe that, for a few seconds longer too, we should not shut up, and that we should not do that for the government. This is one of the only means by which the population can get acquainted with a response from the government or from a Member of Parliament. We have been silenced by this two-minute arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I hope that we can stick to the Rules of Procedure. If Members have two minutes of speaking time, I find that the members of the government must also stick to the five minutes allowed to them. If clarification is sought, the commissions remain to continue the discussions. Today, we are in debate or on topical oral questions in plenary. The pace must be fast. That's what we're supposed to do. I understand that we sometimes stay on his hunger but try to reply in the allotted time. I now give the floor to Mr Hedebouw. I will then give the floor to the Prime Minister to finish his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u19	Madam President, I would ask for some flexibility. It worked well for five to six years. Seriously, there's the rules and then there's the spirit. The Prime Minister is developing a reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u21	May I speak, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u22	We have decided to move forward and to make the debate a little more dynamic by a little bit more rapid in the answers. We're testing. If you don't like it, we'll talk about it again. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u23	Madam President, I was talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u24	We understood the idea, Mr. Hedebouw! And we also understood the idea of Mrs. Reuter, who spoke out of microphones. I hope that the Prime Minister can continue to speak for the few seconds he still has. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Rumors]] That's enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u25	Madam President, thank you very much. Returning to Horeca, it is clear that additional measures are needed and we will study them at the government level. Mr D'Haese, as you know, we have followed an unusual procedure before the pandemic law, with a kind of preliminary draft submitted to Parliament for discussion. That preliminary draft is impossible to take or leave. We're open to suggestions. There's criticism. The FIRM, the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, welcomes this initiative and makes a number of suggestions. The Secretary of State will be here to answer specifically the questions asked about the databases. It is clear that we must be particularly careful about the privacy of citizens. That privacy is an absolute priority. However, if we can improve a number of things on the basis of data that we have, taking into account the privacy of the individual, we need to look at how we can benefit from it. However, guaranteeing privacy must be an absolute priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u26	Prime Minister, you are poorly informed about the catering industry. All catering people are willing to allow terraces. That's no problem at all, and without jealousy. There is only one condition: people must continue to receive support. If people open their terraces and continue to support, there is no problem. The problem for us, however, is not just in the catering industry. The problem lies in health. We have 60,000 visitors in my congregation. Hundreds of thousands are coming to the coast. Last year you closed the case and didn't let anyone come. This year, everyone is allowed to come. I wouldn't accept the opposite either, but you're not doing anything extra. However, there is the toilet problem. Come to us on a Sunday, and take Mr. Vandenbroucke with you. We'll guide you fantastic. Then you will see that there is a health problem. We can't do this without the help of the catering industry. This applies to both the toilets and the service of the people. That's what this is about. What can be done in the Netherlands, so can we.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u27	Prime Minister, you cannot say that you will not maintain the measures one day too much if, at the same time, your government is slow to mobilize all the tools that make our deconfinity a reality. The experts have done their calculations. Every week too much in our vaccination campaign involves a loss of 600 million euros. Each week of delay, they are also fixed costs to pay while the caisses are empty. The recovery of sectors should therefore take place by 1 May at the latest and not at the earliest. Nor can you tell the Belgians that you have to work hand in hand when, at the same time, it is your government and not another, Prime Minister, who simply excludes front-line actors from the vaccination campaign and the mobilization of rapid tests. You're talking about rush, but it's about anticipation. I have been questioning the Minister of Health for months on the issue of rapid testing. As far as aid to the sectors is concerned, I understand that a reflection is under way. I would like to stress the question of financing the recovery arrangements. Indeed, it is not a video message, a conversation on Facebook or a Live Facebook that we need the sectors, it is concrete actions to have certain perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u28	Prime Minister, I am pleased that you have tried to give me an answer outside the speaking time you have given me, but I am actually very disappointed by your reply. If people stop carrying freedom in their hearts, I think it's a prime minister's job to do so. You put privacy high on the agenda, but the real problem is that you are not working on it. In the previous government, the Swedish government, the FOD BOSA was under the authority of Steven Vandeput, except for the digital transformation office, the entire digital part, which at that time fell under your jurisdiction. So far, you have done nothing to help you away from the terrible legal tension that affects all the inhabitants of the country, that terrible triangle between the Constitution, which must be respected, the ECHR, with rights and freedoms, for which I believe you should be very sensitive as a liberal, and GDPR legislation. You spoke of a balancing exercise. However, in my opinion, you stumble every day in the fight against the crisis. You've lost balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u29	Prime Minister, thank you. I have noted that you do not close the door to an early reopening if sanitary conditions permit. You say that additional support will be needed. I shall come back to the committee for further clarification, but I would also like to thank you. The horeca sector is 57,000 companies, 140,000 workers including 96,000 self-employed – the foundation of our economy. They are also places of conviviality, meetings, social cohesion. Our fellow citizens are in real need of it today. We must be at their side.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u30	Prime Minister, when you use the words "hurry" and "not everything at once," I think you will answer questions that have not been asked. I can't imagine anyone wanting that. It's about proportionality. When you say that no government in the Conciliation Committee has asked the question of curfew, it is of course because governments meet within a consensus agreement within the Consultation Committee. You're not answering the question. The crucial question I have asked is that this kind of crucial debate on basic rights is being held here in this House, the House of Representatives. That's the question I'm asking. I hope that everyone who is in favour of liberal fundamental rights will take the opportunity to have the debate here as soon as possible. The primacy of that decision, Prime Minister, lies in the house of democracy, in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u31	Prime Minister, I remain very concerned about the restriction of our democratic rights. I'm even more concerned about what you're saying about curfew. We hear in the media all kinds of parties, Open Vld, the MR, Georges-Louis Bouchez, the N-VA, say that they actually want off curfew. You are now saying that around the table, where things are really decided, no one is squeaking about it. That's just the hypocrisy of politics. I saw the same thing happen yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. A resolution on curfew was tabled, but it was voted out by the whole majority, including the opposition here, who was the majority there yesterday. I don't understand anything in Belgium anymore. Who's really here to lift the curfew? Can I ask that question here? Nobody. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Democratic rights are very important. That's why we have to fight. That's what the PVDA will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u32	Prime Minister, despite opposition without violence, citizen protest with millions of people without violence, a referendum without violence and recent elections in which independence parties achieve a majority without violence, Catalans in Spain are sentenced to gigantic prison sentences, up to 30 years in prison. They won't get a fair trial for that. I am not saying that, but the experts of the United Nations and our own court of appeal say so. In a judgment of 7 January 2021, our appeal court states that the Catalans in Spain are not guaranteed a fair trial. Prime Minister, will your government fully respect the ruling of our judges, regardless of the vote in the European Parliament? Are you committed not to extradite the Catalan politicians who are here with us to Spain? Do you know why I am asking this question, Prime Minister? I'm sorry to have to say that, but I'm asking them because I follow the Spanish media alongside the media in this country. What did I suddenly see in the Spanish press on Monday? The announcement that a video meeting had taken place between your Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne, and the Spanish Minister of Justice to deepen and strengthen the ties between Belgium and Spain. This happened on Monday, the day when the European Parliament voted to waive the immunity of Catalan politicians. Just on that day, your Minister of Justice considers it necessary to strengthen ties with the Spanish Minister of Justice. Prime Minister, was that an initiative of Mr Van Quickenborne's or were you aware of it and was it at your request that the contact took place? Prime Minister, freedom of expression, respect for the rule of law and respect for democracy are high principles, including those of your government. I therefore hope that you will speak clearly in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u33	Mr Loones, the core of the rule of law is that the procedures and the separation of powers are respected. The Members of the European Parliament have indeed decided to waive immunity and Mr Puigdemont can appeal against it to the European Court of Justice. As you state yourself, it is a court that decides on the possible extradition. I am confident that this decision will be taken by legal means. You will agree with me that the distinction must be very strict, because Belgium is a rule of law. Mr Puigdemont says today in the newspaper that he appreciates living in a democracy like our country. From his mouth, that's quite a significant statement. In substance, this government follows the line of the previous government, you know. I quote what former Prime Minister Michel said in 2017: "Mr Puigdemont is a European citizen who has to answer for his actions like any other European citizen who has rights and duties. In other words, he does not enjoy any privilege without being a second-class citizen." Mr Michel added that the court should be able to do its work independently and that this is not a Belgian problem, but a Spanish-Catalan crisis. The question could be raised as to whether we should import a Spanish-Catalan crisis into our country. We already have enough trouble here that we do every week. Is this a challenge that we must face? I see some members of your group shaking their heads in the negative. I would just like to quote what your group leader said about this in 2017: 'Whoever wants to turn the Catalan crisis into a Belgian crisis still needs to eat a few more plates of paella'. Your current group leader said that at the time, and I agree with that for 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u34	Prime Minister, if democrats remain silent today, they will always have to do so in the future. That is the difference with the previous government: when there was violence in the referendum in Catalonia... our group leader and I myself were there... there was one prime minister in Europe who immediately condemned that violence. That was Prime Minister Michel. However, I have not heard any condemnation of you today in the same way, quite the contrary. You always come up with the same old thing: it is an internal Spanish issue. Please, Prime Minister, wake up. How on earth should we still have faith in the European Union when it stands up for human rights, if it is not even able to do so in its own European home? How the hell are our companies supposed to trade with Spanish companies if they can't even trust the Spanish courts? How are we supposed to have faith in your government when your Minister of Justice is baking sweet sandwiches with the Spanish Minister of Justice? You did not answer very conveniently whether this happened behind your back or not. Prime Minister, in Catalonia, the yellow ribbon is the symbol of freedom of expression and democracy. I'd like to wear one myself, but I'll give it to you, because I think you can use it better than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u35	In these economically difficult times, in which many companies suffer turnover losses and sometimes loss tout court, the ABBV and the ACV announced that they would cease on 29 March. It will be an action day, where action unfortunately means not working, and that at a time when we want to do everything we can to keep our economy running. Since the beginning of this year, unions and employers have been negotiating at national level the maximum wage increase for the next two years. Not only is there the inflation rate of 2.8 % through our index system, there should also be a maximum of 0.4 % or a total of 3.2 %. The trade unions seem to think that this is not enough. They want stronger increases, particularly in the sectors and companies that would have done well during the corona crisis, such as the distribution and pharmaceutical sectors, even though there are losers. Solidarity has apparently become a very stretchy concept for the trade unions. The unions play a big game with that. Last year, our economy fell by more than 6%. This announcement is a slap in the face of our companies, the entrepreneurs and the workers who want to get to work. It discourages start-ups, it damages our international image and affects the attractiveness of foreign investment. Now strike is totally irresponsible and antisocial. Homework is still the duty. Prime Minister, how will you ensure that there is a consensus in accordance with the coalition agreement? That's what we need. Minister of Labour, will you propose to the unions to test a home strike formula? Are there protocols for that? Are you going to propose to them to advance the strike of one or two days, to go from Monday to Sunday or Saturday, not to put this country even more to harm? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u36	Madam President, Ministers, yesterday the Common Trade Union Front announced a national strike day on 29 March 2021. In response, the VBO and VOKA have called that proclamation world alien. Mr Christian Leysen of the government party Open Vld also called them world alien. However, I feel that there is a growing willingness to strike and action. A year after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and we were all on the balcony to applaud, the heroes of that pandemic ask for butter from the fish, but they get the answer that they are foreign to the world. I wonder if Mr Leysen himself is doing his shopping, going to the Lidl and talking to the people at the cash register. Does he know what all the cashiers got on their roofs during the pandemic year and ask what they deserve? Does he know that these cashiers may receive a maximum of EUR 8 gross per month in a sector in which millions of euros are earned thanks to workers who have continued to work during the corona crisis? Now that's weird. Mr Leysen, when it comes to dividends, I never hear about a ceiling. There is EUR 180 million in this sector, EUR 450 million in ING, EUR 3 billion in BASF. You never talk about a ceiling. However, when it comes to the cashiers at Lidl and all other sectors, there should be a ceiling. That's weird. So I understand that the colère is growing in our country. I understand that and I support that colère. Prime Minister, the realm of freedom is not only the realm in which one is free from COVID-19, but it is also the realm, Mr Leysen, in which one can be free from financial care and therefore also the realm in which one can conduct free wage negotiations. Gentlemen, what will you do to ensure that the heroes of the corona crisis get a decent raise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there is some disappointment that the social partners have not yet been able to reach an agreement. Allow me to introduce some elements to lay the foundations. No one denies that last year has been particularly difficult. Workers have worked very hard, sometimes in very difficult circumstances. Much was asked of them and the workers have also given very much. On the other hand, for a very large number of companies, it is a black age. Many employers see black snow and wonder how they can survive. It is a difficult time for both sides in the negotiations. We are talking about an increase of 0.4%, but we must not close our eyes to the fact that the index mechanism still exists. There is the indexing of 2.8 %. The total thus amounts to 3.2 %. Now that we have experienced the biggest crisis since the Second World War, everyone will undoubtedly understand that the trees are not just growing into the sky. We must therefore maintain the necessary caution. Mr Dermagne and I have said on several occasions that, on top of the 3.2 % that we are talking about, there should be more possibility in companies where things have gone well, in companies which could continue to expand their activities and which managed to be profitable. Social dialogue is in many places in the coalition agreement. That was also confirmed during the inquisition debate. I am convinced that social dialogue has added value. At a difficult time like this, where very many have risen above themselves, social dialogue can also rise above itself. In my view, social dialogue is useful and has added value, but only if it leads to agreements. I believe that social dialogue should also be able to result in agreements in difficult times such as today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u38	Every time I have the chance, so almost every week, here in plenary, I stress that social dialogue is fundamental to our social model. In addition, social dialogue is essential for our government. Finally, the negotiation of an interprofessional agreement is a crucial but difficult time for social dialogue. During the topical debate in the committee on Tuesday, I had the opportunity to give an update. I said there that the negotiations are always difficult, and this year in particular. This is due, on the one hand, to the crisis and, on the other, to the amendment of the Law on wage formation in 2017. Since Tuesday, discussions have become even more tense and complex. I have heard that the representatives of the private sector workers are planning a strike and action day on 29 March. The protest is mainly about the framework, the amended law on wage formation. The workers' representatives demand that the healthy sectors and companies that did well during the crisis should be allowed to deviate from the wage standard and thus to grant higher wage increases. It is not for me to judge the positions and actions of the social partners. Everyone knows that a strike is always a failure. No one stops for pleasure, but it is a fundamental right that must be respected. The strike is scheduled for March 29th. Gives us some time. Together with the Prime Minister, I will try again to facilitate dialogue and find solutions so that the social partners can reach a balanced agreement. Social dialogue on other important issues continues. The National Labour Council continues to issue opinions on important dossiers and issues. There is therefore no general malaise. I would like to draw attention to the work that the social partners are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u39	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first step towards a way out of the crisis, towards prosperity for all, even in the longer term for the next generation, is to realise the seriousness of the situation. It is not the time for excessive wage demands. Trade unions must have the courage to tell their supporters this uncomfortable reality. We can only use a successful relance in a social environment that strengthens entrepreneurship, stimulates investment and enables sustainable job creation. We can only address this with new economic growth and increased activity levels that we need to consolidate our social security. I am counting on the efforts of the government and on goodwill, but also on the courage of the social partners to make this climate as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u40	Mr. Secretary, strike is a failure? Without a strike, there was no general vote. Without a strike, we wouldn't have social security, you know that. Without labour struggle in general, which occasionally puts pressure on, there were no social rights in our country. I understand that we need to do this again now. The trees do not grow to heaven, some people say, Prime Minister. The issue is, of course, that for some, in some sectors, the trees seem to grow to the sky, the dividends seem to be endless. If one asks for a rightful share of the cake, one stumbles upon a njet, one stumbles upon misunderstanding, one stumbles upon a non-constructive attitude of those sectors. They say no, no more than 0.4%. I fully understand the common front for action that will take place on 29 March, because it is not possible to keep the country running for a year during corona, but when it comes to getting butter on the fish, there will be a njet. It can't be. PVDA-PTB will support the action on 29 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u41	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year after the World Health Organisation declared the pandemic, it becomes painfully clear that people react differently and deal with this crisis. Some are looking for support or asking for it. Either they're ready for each other or they're in solidarity. Others see an opportunity to swindle the government and enrich themselves and actually make us all poorer for the benefit of ourselves. I often hear in this House how the poorest are taking advantage of our welfare state, but I think today is painfully becoming clear what real impact has. What has a real impact is that some employers force their employees to work secretly, although they rely on temporary unemployment. There are farmers who set up cafes to receive corona support. That sounds very absurd, but that is the reality today. In June I warned your predecessor, Minister. She said at the time that that would be checked in addition. We are now six months away, but workers are still being forced to continue to work secretly with temporary unemployment. I think checks alone are not enough. I think that this should be actively reported. That's what we need. It's not gonna happen enough yet. I understand that. Some employees are afraid to lose their jobs. Such abuses cannot last forever. It undermines our solidarity. These entrepreneurs do not deserve our solidarity or our compassion. Honestly, zero tolerance is in order here. If we do not condemn, tackle and punish this, what are we going to do? The question is not whether we are going to deal with this, but how we are going to deal with this. Minister, I look forward to your plan of action to eliminate this kind of abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u42	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service will publish its report COVID-19 tomorrow. In it, SIOD reports, among other things, on the results of investigations into abuse. The report will be on the website tomorrow, but I'll get some results from it. The RVA carried out more than 26,000 investigations into the use of temporary unemployment due to corona force. It found infringements in just over 8,000 cases. This amounts to 31% of the files. The high percentage of infringements shows that the RVA was able to direct its investigations properly, but the figure also indicates a rather limited number of abuses, given the high number of rightholders. In April 2020, more than 1.2 million people made use of temporary unemployment due to corona-force majeure. The procedure was greatly simplified. Certain checks were given up, both for employers and for employees. The checks at the RVA shifted from a priori to a posteriori. People with bad intentions can try to take advantage of the situation, but the inspection services are doing their utmost to prevent abuse. All companies and employees are subject to IT checks and/or administrative checks. If an anomaly is detected, an investigation is conducted. The abuse of fictitious employment with ghost companies has always been a priority for inspection services. In the context of the misuse of aid measures, intensive attention is paid to this. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the inspection services for the work they are doing at this difficult time. They monitor compliance with prevention measures and mandatory telework while at the same time combating fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u43	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The figures you quote from this report are quite shocking. Thirty-one percent of the cases, that's not nothing. I hope that the inspection services and the RVA will continue these checks. Companies that commit such abuses do not deserve our solidarity. They undermine our solidarity and must be tackled, condemned and punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u44	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to address a topical issue. Austria, followed by four other countries, decided to suspend vaccination with one batch of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Today, Denmark has announced the suspension of the use of this vaccine, despite a preliminary investigation by the European Medicines Agency stating that there is no link between the AstraZeneca vaccine and the death in Austria, while reporting 22 cases of thromboembolic pathologies in three million people vaccinated with this vaccine in the European Economic Area. Mr Minister, we need to clarify things today for all of our fellow citizens. Do you have any information on this matter? Have you received any information, particularly from Denmark, which has decided to suspend the use of this vaccine? Is this batch in question used in Belgium? If so, will the use of doses in this batch be suspended? Are there any other factors that should lead us to caution? At the same time, it is vital and vital that vaccination continues and that vulnerable people are vaccinated as quickly as possible. The question of the performance of vaccination still arises in Belgium, since almost 600,000 doses are still stored in freezers and refrigerators, while people are impatient to get vaccinated, centres are still not installed or time zones are far too empty. You have announced a reset, but it must be noted that so far there is no acceleration in the vaccination campaign. Minister, I heard the Prime Minister, earlier, rejecting the ball to the Regions. I also heard them throw the ball to the federal. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Unite your energies! Set specific goals for effective vaccination! That is what the citizens are waiting for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u45	Mr Minister, yesterday we heard the Corona Commissioner, Mr Facon, on the committee. He himself said the vaccination campaign is not a walk in the park. There are a lot of logistical problems, but there is also a great deal of uncertainty about deliveries. Johnson & Johnson's promising vaccine has now been approved, but a few days ago we were told that the fast delivery of it is not so sure. In the discourse on these vaccination problems, the government has already considerably expanded its vocabulary. It was about a game changer, a reset, slowing down, accelerating, the acceleration that slowed down and the delay that accelerated again. However, there are a few terms that I do not often hear used, namely patent and intellectual property rights. However, these concepts also pose a major problem of increasing production. The holders of these patents, the pharmaceutical companies, do not hide the fact that they want to make an effective profit. Minister, which side do we take on this tilting moment? Are we taking the side of those who put the profit first or are we taking the side of those who want health first? This pandemic has been going on for a year now and at that time we have had to give up a great deal of our rights. I am thinking of the right to meet with friends, the right to culture, the right to education, at certain times also the right to health and the right to go and stand wherever we want. However, there is one right that cannot be touched and I cannot understand it. It is time to put aside patent rights so that we can have a real breakthrough in the fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u46	Madam President, with regard to the AstraZeneca vaccine, I do not have any new information that is not in the press. We are scrupulously studying all the data in our possession before taking a position. According to the information currently available to me, the lot that was used in the countries concerned has not been delivered to Belgium – I say it with caution. I also do not know whether there is a link between this lot and the phenomena which have been observed and which have caused some concern in the countries concerned. We are therefore studying the issue scrupulously and will return to it as soon as possible. That said, the epidemiological situation remains very fragile and more than ever, an acceleration of the vaccination campaign is necessary; this acceleration is also possible. We have therefore agreed with the Regions and the Communities a few new elements in the vaccination strategy, which must make it possible to really speed up. You are right, Mrs Fonck: that is not what we see everywhere today. An effort has to be made. I do not have time to go into detail, but I believe that everyone, and each Region too, in this collaborative effort, must analyse its situation and see what action is needed now in order to remedy the practical problems that exist in order to really speed up the campaign. The different regions face problems which are not identical. Specific situations explain that the figures do not yet see this acceleration everywhere, which is absolutely necessary and which is also possible. We are under constant discussion on this subject. You know, for example, that yesterday we decided with the Interministerial Conference to extend the interval for the second injection of the Pfizer vaccine to 35 days, which again allows an acceleration. These are 140,000 doses released. This still makes it possible to go faster. Yes, we need to speed up, yes, we can speed up. There are specific problems in the regions and we therefore ask each region to find remedies. Mrs Merckx, on patents, we come back to a debate that has already taken place. I would like to repeat my opinion on this. From a global point of view, I personally believe that vaccines should be a public good. The world won't be safe until we're safe everywhere. That's obvious. A first question is how this security is achieved. That is a question that needs to be considered. How do we get to that point? Secondly, I repeat that we must not give the impression that the abolition of intellectual property today would mean that we would have a larger stack of vaccines here. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The companies concerned face serious production difficulties. Some companies have more serious difficulties than others. They have probably promised too much in the case of AstraZeneca, which is not acceptable and even extremely annoying. That was not resolved immediately, by abolishing intellectual property. You seem to agree with that. That is the first thing we need to do. For the rest, I believe that there is a need for international solidarity in this area. My speaking time is over, but I am happy to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u47	Minister, regarding AstraZeneca, I still hear a number of questions in your answer. Let me insist that you clarify the situation as a matter of urgency. In this respect, there can be no doubt for the citizens. As far as the acceleration of vaccination is concerned, in the words it is better than a month ago, but I am sorry to tell you, and I dare hope that you will not simply contradict the objective facts, in the acts, we are far from the duty of performance that can be expected of a State on such a vital and major emergency as vaccination. What does slow vaccination mean? It means prolonged containment, selection of mutants and greater contagion. If you had done otherwise, minister, we could have vaccinated three times more fragile people. Yesterday, I heard the Prime Minister say, "Let's get vaccinated!" I want to say, "Vaccinate us!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u48	Mr Minister, alongside the logistical problems that are very important and still not solved today, there is a major obstacle to increasing production in Belgium and elsewhere, of course, it is to lift the patents. Today, we have been deprived of many of our rights: the right to education, the right to health, the right to culture, the right to see friends. There are, however, two apparently unattainable rights: the right to profit and the right to intellectual property. Today, what you say is not true. Today, we're still in front of a race that isn't finished at all. Yet we have everything: we have the formula, the workers, the factories. Production capacity is only half-functioning in the world to produce covid vaccines. Nevertheless, you do not want to stand on the side of people who really want it to move forward on the level of health, who actually want us to lift the patents today because that is really the major obstacle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u49	Madam President, Minister, today is 11 March. Since thousands of victims were killed by Islamic terrorists on 11 March 2004 in Madrid, 11 March is the day of the commemoration of the victims of terrorism. On 22 March it will be five years since 32 deaths and hundreds of injuries were caused by similar Islamic terror in this country. Still, five years later, not all victims have been fully compensated. Minister, you have said on several occasions that your policy is centred on the victims. But, in Belgium, those terrorist victims are not helped by the government, they even have to fight against it. Today we learned that a lawyer, who was a victim of the attack on the Brussels metro himself on 22 March, filed a complaint against the Belgian State after an in-depth investigation. Not only does he establish the unnecessarily complicated legal procedure, but he particularly blames the government for withholding medical information and for any potential neurological damage, though not abnormal after bombings, if a psychological problem was resolved, leading to lower compensation. The search for financial compensation for those victims of terrorism on 22 March was indeed an indisputably legal bluff. They were all alone in that search. They were completely on their own, and it also takes unnecessarily long. Why does the government only act after the insurance companies have handled the files? When will the victims finally be fully compensated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Pas, it is indeed exactly five years since our country was struck in the heart by blind jihad terror. It was a very difficult and traumatic period for all of us, especially for the victims. We have learned a lot since then, sometimes with shame and shame, especially when it comes to dealing with the victims. This Parliament has done a good job. A parliamentary committee of inquiry has put its finger on the wound when it comes to the victims. Governments have started to do this and many initiatives have been taken. When I took office, I had contact with the various victim associations. I have found that there is still a great deal of untapped suffering and justified frustrations. The testimony in the paper today, I'm not gonna stay unmoved. The most important lesson that the Justice Department has learned is that the victims must be better assisted. At the suggestion of my predecessor, Mr Geens, many laws have been amended. A central victim's office was set up at the federal prosecutor's office. This single point of contact is now operational and is equipped with specialised staff. But, I admit, this window is only the first step. Victim guidance is also about getting informed in a human and empathic way in the mess of administrations and services, both public and private. I have listened carefully to the various recognised victim associations in our country over the last few months. Together with them, I will take a concrete initiative to meet their legitimate needs as much as possible. Finally, we will do everything in our power to ensure that victims are properly supervised in the process of the attacks. Mrs Pas, I am well aware that certain scars and traumas will be lifelong, but I know that the government and the judiciary will do everything in their power to help deal with that suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u51	Mr Minister, the fact that there is still no settlement after five years, and that you are apparently unable to give a date by when it will finally be there, is yet another blow to the face of those victims. It was much better, as we said then, to set up a fund which immediately fully reimbursed all the victims and survivors and only then knocked on to the insurance company. Now the victims were left to their own devices. The government may have deliberately turned it into an irrefutable legal vacuum in the hope that they would be tired and despondent victims of their claim for compensation. I hope that you will make changes soon, because if I look at how this dossier has been dealt with so far, then I have to say that 11 March is not just the day for the commemoration of those victims of terror. 11 March is also the plumber's day, and that is unfortunately striking for the Belgian government's policy on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u52	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating you. I wish congratulations to the federal judicial police, to the prosecution, to the investigating judge. I congratulate everyone who made the operation such an overwhelming success. That achievement is very punishment and may be seen. She's all the more punishing under the circumstances. For too long, politics was not a partner in this struggle. It was easy to fill the television studios with big words about the war on drugs, but there were no means of making that war on drugs a real success. Too often it was lacking. We've seen the consequences. Police and justice have experienced this for years. There was a shortage in federal law enforcement for a long time. While former Minister Jambon kept announcing it, the current government adds the deed to the word. Finally, we finally strengthen the federal judicial police and the Antwerp federal judicial police in particular. It's no secret that the knot is tied in the harbor. Tons of cans and tons of coke have been smuggled in. If you do not want to have a million-dollar coke scanned, you pay a fine of several thousand euros and drive on quietly. In the previous legislature, former Minister Van Overtveldt claimed that he went for 100% control, but what happened in the facts? Not one percent of the containers were checked. In the end, there was even a back door. To those who like to talk nicely about the war on drugs, they would have invested. Do you want a scan? Then buy mobile scanners. This government does. She invests 10 million euros in mobile scanners. This government does. Now, Minister, you need to tighten up and apply the rules that ensure that scanning can be ensured and that control can no longer be avoided. You announced that in committee, too. We also need to invest in sufficient capacity for 100 % controls. How will you achieve this together with your colleagues and also make the system more secure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u53	Madam President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was impressed. Finally organized crime was given a serious thump. More than 1,600 policemen have been invaded in about 200 places. There have been far too many victims of criminal organisations in the past. Security is an absolute top priority for the government and also for CD&V. Drug crime is all too often a source of unrest and an increased sense of insecurity. Who does not know parks and other locations in cities that are said to be better not to be there, because things are happening there that are not allowed to see the light of day? Moreover, I find it worrying that there are also two agents and some lawyers involved, while the society expects them to be an example. It is now intended that we should proceed to prosecution, because that is a necessary follow-up document. The cocaine trade has been hit, but let us not be naive, it has not completely flattened. Cocaine will rise in price. So cocaine crime will also increase. That is why it is very important that we support the rotary wheel, namely the port of Antwerp, and keep it as clean as possible. It was announced that an additional 50 million would be allocated to the federal judicial police, and by the end of the legislative term that would be an additional 100 million. What will be the priorities? 450 internal vacancies were issued to the judicial police for reinforcement. 100 places are for Antwerp. Where are the remaining 350 going? Which profiles do you want to put on? ICT will also be important. What is the investment budget for ICT?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u54	Madam President, Minister, Minister, this is the biggest investigation into organized crime in our country's history, it is unseen and it makes great eyes open at home and abroad. Colleagues, the superlatives are justified. After all, the action required years of preparation by many people. In other words, it was very strong work by all police forces under the leadership of the Federal Office, for which we congratulate them. There has been a serious blow to a very extensive network of criminals and to individuals who daily threaten the security of all of us and also undermine public order. Last Tuesday, 17 tons of cocaine and 1.2 million euro cash were seized, 200 places were searched, 48 were arrested and 1,600 policemen participated in an unseen action. As many as 1 billion messages on highly encrypted cell phones could be deciphered. Those are hallucinating numbers. Mr and Madam Minister, the action has undoubtedly cost a huge amount of people and resources over the last few years, months and weeks, otherwise we will not achieve such a result. Can you give further details on the use of people and resources over the past few weeks, as well as on the policy decisions that you yourself took when you took office in October 2020? We see that criminals are increasingly using sophisticated technological means. It is not evident to fight individuals with such profiles and attract them to the government. What will we do to really dive cybercrime? Finally, I refer to the article in Latest News today, which shows that despite international arrest warrants, some big boys are currently making a big deal out of Dubai and escaping everything, as well as other criminals can still stay and escape abroad. Is there anything else we can do about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the time when organised crime thought it was possible to go about its business undisturbed, unhindered and unpunished is over. This week, she was given a heavy blow. On behalf of Mr Verlinden and the government, I can express my thanks for the work done by the public prosecutor and the police. In particular, I am grateful for those who did what no one thought was possible: cracking one of the most secure systems. It proves how talented our security services have. We can all be proud of that. However, the situation and circumstances in which those people have to work are far from ideal. Upon my arrival, when I was briefed on the file, I found a distressing situation with the federal judicial police. In Antwerp, the staff shortage was 25% and the fleet was so outdated that it could not even enter the city centre of Antwerp. That's the legacy of four years of N-VA on Home Affairs. And then I hear Mayor De Wever asking for more people and more resources. How cynical, Mr De Wever and N-VA, can you be? This government has been investing in police and justice since day one. Especially for this investigation, 56 people were attracted to the Justice Department. The FGP in Antwerp was strengthened by more than 100 people, which will undoubtedly be addressed by Mr Verlinden. Agreements were also made with customs. Mr Segers, we do want to avoid that criminals can avoid the scan of a container. That's why we invest in technology. Colleagues, this breakthrough is no reason to crow victory. I don't underestimate the resilience of the criminal organizations. We will not accept organized crime taking over the legal upper world. Mr Gabriels, neither will we accept that drug billionaires hide in distant oil states. They've been warned. We will do everything we can to find and find them, to try them and to take away their criminal assets, along with those countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of a battle, a battle that we must fight shoulder to shoulder. The government is counting on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u56	Madam President, I can only echo the great appreciation and appreciation that has been expressed here this afternoon for the excellent work done by the public prosecutors and police forces at home and abroad who have worked together to bring about this unprecedented operation. The expertise in research, high-tech research and the large-scale and long-term secret organisation of Tuesday's action are unseen and impressive. That cooperation pays off has now proved to be a good thing. With this action we have shown that drugs and the accompanying illegal and economic-distorting trade and walking will never get the last word and that we will not stand idly by and watch things develop. We know, of course, that we must stay ahead of organized crime and the questions you asked were also relevant. We are firmly in favour of strengthening the police, particularly the federal judicial police. You know that we are making this legislature progressively and structurally available a number of additional resources to the police, starting with EUR 50 million this year and a total envelope of EUR 310 million throughout the legislative period. We can use these resources to recruit more specialised profiles, which in some cases are more expensive than a number of junior profiles, and we can use high-tech instruments and resources, as well as the equipment of our police services, a subject that has been raised a number of times in Parliament. 450 places have already been declared vacant by the federal judicial police in December 2020, of which 100 have been declared vacant by the federal judicial police in Antwerp and 70 in Brussels, precisely in order to carry out this kind of innovative investigations and detectives. In particular, we are looking for 90 specialist inspectors and at least 50 specialised civilian profiles for data analysis, decryption, accounting, economic and financial crime, which have proved very important in combating this type of crime, which are by no means the traditional crime that we all intended. The FGP will also receive 125 new vehicles to carry out its tasks in low-emission city centres. It goes without saying, and I hope you can all express your support for this, that we must continue to invest in the further digitisation of the police and in IT projects. In this perspective, 600,000 euros were allocated to the purchase of high-tech materials in order to achieve breakthroughs such as these. The National Technical & Tactical Support Unit of the police, the unit responsible for the identification, observation and interception of private telecommunications, will also be strengthened. In addition, we will do everything we can to mobilise EUR 20 million from the European Recovery Plan for the very hard-working Computer Crime Units of the federal police and to finance a series of digitization projects in the federal judicial police. Finally, as regards the possible involvement of a number of police officers at the Federal Prosecutor's press conference, it was already noted that possible links with the upper world are not excluded, but are being thoroughly investigated. It is no secret that criminal organisations such as this, where there is a huge amount of money, have tentacles in all kinds of services, public administrations, but also private organisations. Meanwhile, a number of police officers have already been apprehended. It is not excluded that they are also involved in illicit drug trafficking and any corruption, but further research will have to prove that. Whether the two arrested Antwerp police officers about which the press reports are also involved in a criminal organisation, I cannot and cannot elaborate on that today, but it goes without saying that this is being investigated. As stated in my policy statement, we are firmly committed to the integrity of the police. Of course, this kind of thing, which police officers may have been guilty of, is totally unacceptable. I will never accept that the integrity of the police is undermined from the inside. That is why I am also in favour of carrying out an integrity screening, not just at start-up and selection, but throughout the entire police career in order to ensure the integrity of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u57	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for your clear commitment to this fundamental struggle. This research was a huge achievement and it deserves an equally solid follow-up. The drug mafia still needs a lot of hits, and that is what we stand for as sp.a, a strong government that protects its citizens and makes everyone feel safe and safe. That's what we do with a real war on dealers. That means a focus on the mafia, rather than on the occasional user. After all, crime must not be rewarded. We must continue to fight this battle if we want our country to be truly safer and Antwerpers not to be alarmed by night-time bullet rains and grenade explosions, but simply to be able to live safely. We have to be able to offer them that certainty. I am, of course, counting on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u58	Engagement, sturdy material, extra people, the right profiles, I like to hear it all and I hope we can work shoulder to shoulder to tackle the drug dealers. After all, these are the people we need to tackle and we need to make sure that we are always one step ahead of them with our IT. After all, they're smart business people. So far my message to you. Go for it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u59	I am pleased to hear you say that this is only the beginning and that we are continuing to fight. We're not letting go, on the contrary. This government has already invested a great deal in people and resources to fight organised crime and to guarantee the security of all of us. She's gonna keep doing that, too. Our gratitude goes to the people on the ground who live up to this every day, including in this dossier. I hope, together with you, that now that the resources are released, we will also find the right candidates to join the police force to continue this fight. After all, it will not be evident to find these ICT profiles as they are also sought after in the private sector. However, the government will do everything in its power to make this happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u60	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, a sloppy 50 years ago I was 13 years old. At that time I was present at the small art festival Nekka at the Sportpaleis in Antwerp. There the name Will Ferdy performed, who had dared to out on television in the week before as a homosexual. As far as I know, he was one of the first to do that. I was there as a young scout. The guy's been out for 20 minutes, and then it was Gerard Cox. Will Ferdy didn't sing. A former Justice Minister is careful. The motive must always be proven. But hearing facts that David has been through fifty years later is not pleasant to hear. Our society seems to be taking very small steps forward. We must accept that. To determine what horrible facts are committed with similar motives makes a man silent. The facts may speak for themselves, but I would like to ask you three questions. Firstly, how will you deal with the discriminatory motivation of homophobia in the future in criminal law? Same way as now? Or will you follow another method? Secondly, what is your plan of approach to those dating sites and dating apps? These instruments are strange to me, but they're used a lot by young people. They allow a lot of cover-up crime. Maybe there's something we can do about that? Thirdly, how will you combine this with education? This is an inter-federal problem. At that time I was not once addressed to the young explorers at school about the flutes of that artist at the Sports Palace. Fighting Homophobia starts in the first kindergarten class, not at the university.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u61	Last Saturday, 41-year-old David was found dead in a park in Beveren. That man would have been set up by a gay dating app. The court is short with information, but we already know that there are three juvenile offenders, one of whom appeared before the juvenile court once before and got away with working time for a theft by force. When Mr Geens just referred to the overrun of powers, I thought he would be talking about a stricter approach to juvenile offenders. It's terrible to be killed for who you are. Such a homophobic scum is no place in our society. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident. Last summer there were violent images from a chat group of up to 600 members. Most of them turned out to be Chechens. That chat group only had one goal, which is to attack holebi's, beat them up and film them and then share those images. That's horrible. It is gruesome violence that must be dealt with hard, like any violence. Just last week, Mrs Bury asked here to tackle the violence against women by rapists. I have repeatedly argued for this. Mr. Geens will remember that. As long as it takes, I will continue to argue here for a tough approach to crime and violence. Unfortunately, I have had to do it too often in the previous legislature, as a result of many violent incidents. Minister, I am now asking you to work on zero tolerance. You must also introduce stricter penalties against this type of violence. Homo-hate must be an aggravating factor. Will you increase the level of punishment so that severe penalties must also be applied in the event of mitigating circumstances? Will you ensure that every sentence is carried out, no matter how short it is, so that this impunity can finally be brought to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u62	Madam President, Minister, it was mentioned this weekend: David, 42, is dead. He died murdered. David was beaten to death in a park in Beveren because he was gay. David died of loving men. I wish to extend my condolences here to David's family and his loved ones. It is not just the homosexual community that is in shock, ladies and gentlemen. All the democrats in this freedom-loving country are horrified. Homophobia is a crime against love. How can we imagine, how can we accept that young people are organizing a real stalker to beat and kill a man because of his sexual orientation? Even today, in 2021, in our country, homophobia kills! Even today, in our streets, women and men who love each other fear to hold their hands in public, to kiss each other, to show their love in the sight and in the knowledge of all, to be, in a word, simply themselves, for fear of being subjected to violence or even to life. Minister, solidarity is essential. All rainbow flags that float in the wind or bloom on social networks express solidarity and warm the heart. But that is not enough! We need clear actions and a clear message that homophobia is a crime and that homophobic and homophobic acts are prosecuted in our country, that there is no tolerance for intolerance. Minister, what priority does our justice place in the fight against homophobia? What means are being used to help victims of homophobic acts, on the streets, on social networks? What actions are being taken to assist victims of homophobia and to facilitate the filing of a complaint? Finally, what initiatives will you take to ensure that no one in our country will live in fear of living his life in broad daylight because of his sexual orientation and that no one in our country thinks that homophobic acts can go unpunished?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u63	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, love is love. We have given that message massively over the last few days, after the shocking murder in Beveren, possibly with gay hatred as motive. This event has drawn our attention to phenomena that are present in our society, ranging from homonegativity to even homophobic hatred and, in extreme extreme, lethal violence against Holebi's. The question to be addressed today is therefore what policy is appropriate to ensure that equal opportunities in our country are more than hollow words. What policy is needed to guarantee equal rights for Igbtq people? The answer is clear to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Equal opportunities policy must be more than a tweet sharing, rather than a rainbow flag. Is there going to be an increase in the number of crimes where a hate motive is considered as an aggravating element? What will the government do to combat discrimination against Holebi's? Unia figures show that the number of reports of discrimination based on sexual orientation peaks. Unia's conclusion is that gay hatred is a very real problem in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we must realise that violence against Holebi is only the tip of the iceberg, not only because of the taboo that rests on it, so that victims often dare not report it, but also because behind these acts of violence there is a negative image of Holebi's. Research shows that there is indeed an undercurrent of homonegativity in our society. Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, there is clearly work to be done. What is the government going to do to strengthen equal opportunities policy? In any case, for our group, it is important that the policy should be more than hollow words, that it should also face tough policies and that the necessary budgets should be set aside for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I just walked through the Rue de la Loi and saw all these rainbow flags, one next to the other, from Rue de la Loi 16 to the other, I realized very well that this is something that affects us all. Town halls all over the country hang out the rainbow flag. The message is clear. As a society, we do not accept that people are being mocked, discriminated against, attacked or even killed for who they are, who they love or what sexual preference they have. Justice is doing its job. Right after the facts, the suspects were arrested, brought to justice and locked up. Unfortunately, there are far too many stories that show that hatred and violence against these people is a problem that continues to fester in our society. Whether it's people who are intimidated because they're walking hand in hand across the street, or a local mandater who gets tons of homophobic hate reports, those stories affect us all, we're outraged by it. They have to encourage us to solve this together. Ladies and gentlemen, we must say things as they are. Often it starts with homophobia, with homophobic hate speech, and ends with violence. Although hate speech is punishable in our country, it is not prosecuted when it comes to homosexuals. In other words, impunity, including on the Internet, also on social media. There's only one way to deal with that, that's to get those hatedoers brought to justice. That is why we need to amend Article 150 of the Constitution. Victims should also be able to report more easily. The scare is far too great. The thresholds are far too high. We have seen in recent years that initiatives such as the care centres for victims of sexual violence, Mr Geens, the Family Justice Centers of the Flemish Government, have brought relief and increased the willingness to report. The question is whether we can learn something from these initiatives, to do something for victims of gaybashing. Can we, Mr Geens, talk to these dating sites and those organizers to make sure that we can make safer appointments? Ladies and gentlemen, to measure is to know! In the debate over the past few days, I have been struck by the fact that there are few figures at the level of police and justice. I'm worried, I have to admit. Is this problem on the rise? Have we mastered him? Together with my colleague Mrs Schlitz, we have brought together experts to solve this registration problem effectively. Police officers and the judiciary need to be better trained in order to provide victims with better care, assistance and guidance. Consequently, after Easter, 2,000 magistrates will be trained in this regard. The final piece is, of course, punishing the perpetrators. I can tell you today that the Criminal Code will be reformed and that the discriminatory motive will be extended to all crimes. I will ask the government to punish hate crimes more severely. Ladies and gentlemen, even next week, even next month, if the flags are no longer there, the problems of our fellow citizens will not have disappeared and we will have to continue to work on them. It will not only be the Justice Department that has to provide answers. It will depend on the whole society. With the Länder, with civil society, with education, with all of us, without exclusion, we need to work together on this so that everyone in our country is free to go without fear and stand wherever he or she wants, so that people can go hand in hand with those they like.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u65	Madam President, first of all, I wish David's family and friends and the entire LGBTQ+ community much strength. I condemn any form of violence. At present, the judicial investigation is ongoing. I will therefore not draw any conclusions on the individual case. Apart from that, homophobia is a painful reality. Let me be clear: not holebis are the problem, but the people who cannot cope with it. In the very short term there will be a better registration of hate crimes. Too few victims file complaints. Belgium must have a better overview of hate crimes throughout the country. You have heard Mr Van Quickenborne on the repressive fight against homophobia. However, repression alone is not enough. Therefore, an inter-federal action plan SOGIESC of Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression Sex Characteristics will be launched in 2021. We make the plan together with civil society, the LGBTQ+ couples and the Länder. One of the priorities of the plan is to strengthen the security of the LGBTQ+ individuals. We must tackle discrimination and violence at its roots. The SOGIESC plan focuses on prevention of homophobia in all policy areas: work, education, media and others. Homophobia and homophobic violence are unacceptable. Holebis must be free in our country to live exactly how they want, without aggression or intimidation. You can count on me to be an ally in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, I am a master, a teacher. I would hope that the fight against homophobia is progressing as quickly as your knowledge of Dutch. There is a long way to go for both, but you have made enormous progress in a very short time. Madam Secretary of State, Mr Vice Prime Minister, as the Minister of Justice knows, it is always the Justice Department that gets hit in these cases. A Minister of Justice is going through this with courage, humility and compassion, as you have just heard. However, the battle begins much earlier than that. This is something that is understated in public opinion, in the press and in all colleagues of all possible governments. I'll tell you again, the battle begins in education.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, it is indeed very sad and unacceptable that Holebis in our society cannot go hand in hand everywhere without fear. Two years ago, Johan Leman made the statement: "You must know where to walk as a gay hand in hand in Molenbeek." We cannot accept that. Mr President, if you are afraid to see that this problem is more serious in certain multicultural areas of difficulty than elsewhere, then you cannot tackle it in the first place. Instead of seeking your salvation in Article 150 of the Constitution, you would be better placed to work on better offender profiles. Work towards stricter penalties and a tough approach to crime and violence in particular. Whoever is old enough to commit such serious crimes is also old enough to be severely punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u68	Minister, that in 2021 a man dies in a trap set by people motivated by the hatred of homosexuals is simply revolting! Our society must remain an open democracy, a democracy that cherishes all freedoms. One of the most beautiful of them is the freedom to love whoever you want. It must be said loud and clear: as a society, we refuse to tolerate hatred. Homophobia is a crime of hatred and intolerance. We proclaim that living in society and in security in our country is a right of everyone, and that this right cannot under any circumstances depend on its sexual orientation. You have the power to guarantee that our justice is without weakness. The PS Group will support you in all your initiatives in this direction, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad to hear you're offering more opportunities to punish hate crimes. Madam Secretary of State, I share your view that, in addition to repression, prevention should also be used. I wish you every success with the inter-federal action plan. It is good that there is also explicit attention to the safety of holebi's. It is also important that equal opportunities are not only seen as a separate policy area. Our group therefore calls on the entire government to make inclusion and anti-discrimination a priority in all policy areas and to allocate sufficient resources to this. Madam Secretary of State, you are right to include civil society. For us, an organisation like Unia is also a privileged partner for anti-discrimination policy. We therefore call on the government to ensure that Unia is given the necessary financial resources to continue to fulfil its mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u70	Madam President, Secretary of State, we urgently need transparency and information. Yes or no, as Le Soir revealed yesterday, did the SPF Strategy and Support and Smals sort of emancipate themselves from all control and work without a mandate to a centralized database freely accessible by the administrations, or even by the private sector, and which would cross the personal data of Belgians contained in many existing databases? To these disturbing revelations is added a cacophonic communication. Indeed, who believes when two administrations express themselves: the first confirms working on the project and the second talks about fake news? I would like to make three reminders here. First, being able to do things doesn't mean being allowed to accomplish them. The legislator alone is empowered to define the framework for the creation, feeding and use of data. Secondly, it is up to the technique to apply to the legal framework and not to impose a technique and regularize it afterwards. Tertio, in these troubled times, the trust of the citizen is essential. Such a lack of transparency and control seriously harms our citizens' confidence in our institutions. We're being announced between one and two million dollars invested. We're being announced as active officials. We're being announced a very advanced project. We are being told of an occult project that was publicly described by you yesterday. Mr Secretary of State, who is at the initiative of this Putting data at the center project? What is the legal basis for this? What are the objectives and missions? What data are concerned? What monitoring is planned for this project? How much has it been budgeted and spent? Do you keep your statements yesterday? Can we therefore consider that this project of centralisation of data is abandoned with immediate effect? Finally, what measures do you intend to take so that such initiatives can never happen again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, part of the administration, in probable collaboration with the ASBL Smals, has worked on a project aimed at centralizing and crossing the most sensitive databases of our citizens, which are established by the State. Putting data at the center seems to be more than just a project, since it would already be a successful tool that could be used to profile our fellow citizens by cross-referencing their personal data, through a possible cross-checking of health, social security, finance, justice, etc. This is simply unacceptable! Even more serious would be the opening of this data to private partners. Even if we can all imagine the data held by the state about each of us, citizens need to know the extent, exact use and purpose of the data. When we discover such projects, we are entitled to question ourselves. There can be no opacity in the data and processes surrounding their processing. This is simply unacceptable. Secretary of State, within the federal government, you are responsible for data protection. So what can you tell us, to us parliamentarians and to the citizens we represent? Was the government aware of this project? Did he sponsor it? Can you tell us if the Information Security Committee (ISC) has intervened at any time to validate this file? Have any deliberations taken place? Are any actions envisaged by the government to put an end to the possible drifts of this project? These are data banks for which the State is responsible. For this reason, it must ensure its inviolability and proper management, in accordance with the GDPR and the law on the protection of personal data. So are you going to put a little bit of order on data management and related processes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, I am glad that this debate is finally coming to Parliament. Indeed, you will probably recall that I have already asked you several times on this issue, my aim being to warn against the danger that exists today. I am also pleased that Le Soir has conducted an investigation and revealed the dangers we face. The aim of the project is to collect, centralize and cross-reference all personal data of citizens – even though they should not be. This is about tax data, justice, health, social security, or data that must be separated. This project is led by the ASBL Smals, which has no mandate to do so. No one asked him: neither the government nor Parliament. In addition, Smals escapes control; it must not be held accountable to anyone. Mr Secretary of State, when we talk about personal data in Belgium, there is always a name: Frank Robben, Mr Big Data, Mr Big Brother Belgian. He's got his hands on all our personal data. He has access to health data, social security data. He has 21 mandates with almost as many conflicts of interest. You may tell me that the Data Protection Authority can monitor whether all laws are respected in terms of data protection. But who do we find in ODA? Mr. Frank Robben, who is supposed to be controlled while he's a controller himself. Mr Secretary of State, this situation is unacceptable! In doing so, do you agree, yes, that a removal procedure should be put in place in this Parliament to clarify this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u73	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, it seems that, without your knowledge, without the knowledge of Parliament, without the knowledge of the Data Protection Authority, without a legal basis, without the precise scope and purpose of this project being known, a great project to cross-reference and concentrate a whole series of private data from our fellow citizens is being prepared secretly. The code name of this project is "Putting data at the center". You recently stated that you were not aware of this project. It is true that, as the project manager, we find a name that is often cited in the media and by yourself: Mr. Frank Robben. We are told that it is both the drafting, implementation and monitoring of data management bills. I must tell you that George Orwell would have liked such a scenario! Mr Secretary of State, what is needed is transparency, legality, proportionality, respect for privacy, legitimacy on this type of issue, the return to parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, Parliament's control over the management of our data. Parliament is already out of the loop with regard to measures related to covid, with regard to restrictions on our fundamental freedoms. Today, it is again off-circuit on a problem as important as managing our data. Mr. Secretary of State, do you confirm that you were not aware of this? This poses a problem of confidence in your administration, in yourself, in your administration. This is a serious and serious problem with regard to such an essential issue as data management. What are you going to do? How are you going to ensure that we return to a parliamentary democracy, to a rule of law in an area as important as the management of the personal data of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u74	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the press revealed the existence of this Putting data at the center project, which was allegedly launched in 2018 by the ASBL Smals with the SPF BOSA and which would aim to create a crossroads of all public databases to literally monitor our fellow citizens. Of course, we are talking about the National Register, the database in relation to health care, social security, the economy (VAT numbers and others). The goal is really to control the facts and actions of our citizens and businesses on a day-to-day basis. Moreover, according to the press, some files would be open to private partners, potential customers. As it stands, such a project is completely unacceptable to us. Moreover, it is quite incomprehensible that it can be developed in a state governed by the rule of law. Since yesterday, the reactions have been fussed. Smals tells us: "We don't know. There is no such project." SPF BOSA says the legal framework has been respected. Europe even calls Belgium to order. All transparency must therefore be made. Mr Secretary of State, there are many questions. What is the status of this project? What is its objective? What is its legal basis? Who is responsible? Which body, which public institution is it manoeuvring? What is its legal and democratic basis? What text voted by this House today, yesterday or in previous years can legitimize such a draft? Finally, problems with the public database architecture and in connection with our privacy are growing. Secretary of State, what is your action plan on this matter? What actions do you intend to take in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u75	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, Members of the House of Commons, I would first like to thank you for your questions and comments, which I very much share. I want to be overly clear from the outset. It will never enter into my political intentions any will to allow the profiling of citizens. Not only will I not allow it, but I have, since taking office, been working, in my role, to restore the confidence and transparency essential to the management of the data of our citizens. The protection of personal data is an integral part of fundamental rights and freedoms. It is an essential element of privacy. The administration, although I do not prejudge its intentions, has advanced here in an imprecise legal context and without the mandate of this government, so I would like to reiterate firmly that any personal data, whatever it may be, belongs first and foremost to the citizen himself. Under no circumstances will we accept that officials take ownership of it without a clearly defined mandate. I can tell you that the political message to our administrations has been very clear and very firm. I have also asked for an immediate halt to this project and for very precise explanations of the nature and legal framework within which it is based. I will communicate them to Parliament as soon as I have received them. I'm not one of those who's going on a witch hunt. On the other hand, I am one of those who take on their responsibilities and maintain that everyone, in his or her own role, must take his or her own. That was, and I thank him, the sense of the very constructive meeting that I had with the Speaker of the House. I have every confidence in this Parliament to act in the best possible way with regard to the conflicts of interest referred to. I am also convinced that Parliament must be at the heart of this debate. However, in this difficult discussion, let us not lose sight of the fact that the opportunities for data management and interoperability will be crucial for recovery. Belgium has many assets in areas such as artificial intelligence or e-health which, in order to unlock their potential, need a climate of confidence around data management. I will therefore put things in order, among the actors within the framework that regulates the management and protection of personal data. First, there must be full transparency of data, actors and processes. To do this, I want to allow citizens to have access to all the personal data that the state holds on each of them, so that they can know who is using it and for what purposes. Secondly, I intend to strengthen and clarify legislation in this area: the CSI Act, the "Only Once" Act, the ODA Act. As you know, I am currently working on the evaluation of the Private Life Act. This task will allow me to make my various recommendations this summer. I made it a priority, since I accelerated the process as soon as I took office. Nevertheless, "accelerating" does not mean "accelerating". The stakes are too important not to give us the necessary time. In this evaluation, I will clarify the roles of each and the collaborations between the different institutions. At this point, it is still too early to go further. I am convinced that together we will succeed in building a climate of trust that will allow us to hold, with you, the indispensable parliamentary debate on acceptable uses and those that are not in a democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizen must be at the centre of our concerns, in the construction of a State that simplifies his life, but I will never accept that this simplification should be at the expense of our fundamental freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, if you endorse the words 'privacy', 'personal data', 'data-crossing', 'profiling', the only curves that we will have to observe in this Parliament will unfortunately be the loss of confidence of our citizens and the rise of populism. The revision of the legislation you have mentioned is essential because the digital tool must be transparent and open and not, as it is too often, occult and secret. The digital tool must associate, it must inform our fellow citizens. For these reasons, the initiatives taken unilaterally by these two administrations are unacceptable. Moreover, the lack of government control is incomprehensible! In these matters, the state must be, as you said, blameless. It is no longer a question of hesitation! I invite you, more than just a letter, to put an immediate end to this dangerous project for our privacy and for our fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The role of the Information Security Committee in this project needs to be made clear. Perhaps Parliament should look at this issue, as it does at the Data Protection Authority. This case demonstrates the usefulness of the legal incompatibilities provided for in the ODA Act. The citizen and Parliament must know what data are in the possession of the State, who has access to it and for what purpose. The management of personal data is the foundation of all freedoms. It must be determined by law and be carried out in full transparency. The protection of privacy is the stronghold of democracy and for the MR, there is an urgent need to put order in order to restore the trust of the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, in times of health crisis, the mission of the Data Protection Authority is fundamental to protecting our privacy. It must be independent and impartial. However, this is not possible because it cannot control possible drifts such as the one discovered yesterday afternoon. It cannot do so because it is tainted by conflicts of interest. You talked about taking on our responsibilities. At the PTB, we take our responsibilities! I call on all parliamentarians, all groups, to denounce what they read in the article yesterday. I am speaking to colleagues: I invite you to take your responsibilities. I have sent a letter to the Chair requesting that a removal procedure be initiated, which I shall put to the vote. There, you will have to take your responsibilities and demonstrate whether you really want to guarantee privacy or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to touch on three points quickly. First, I note that trust is broken between you and your administration in both directions. I think it's bad news about the construction site you're starting. I am concerned in this regard. Secondly, the management and use of personal data by public authorities does indeed deserve better control, but it is not just about public authorities. We know today that the private sector, such as GAFAs, are using our data massively. I think this deserves – I am also speaking to you, Madam President – a particular interest of Parliament. I wonder to what extent it is not important that we set up a monitoring committee of the Data Protection Authority, as we are doing in relation to Committee P and Committee R. In the coming years, it will be a major issue of democracy, a major issue for our fundamental freedoms. I believe that Parliament must deal with this issue and set up this monitoring committee. Thirdly, I see that here, colleagues from the MR, the PS and Ecolo are getting into the niche, but I remind them that they are the ones who have allowed, in the fight against covid, the crossing of data with other types of data, through Smals. They have allowed the use of private data and should also sweep outside their doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u80	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I would like to touch on three points. Firstly, stopping this project as it stands is obviously a minimum. But the most important thing is to understand how we have come to this and how this issue has matured to this point. Secondly, yes, Parliament must be at the heart of the solution and must take up this issue with arms. My group has already proposed that hearings be held in the Committee on Justice. You have to understand what happened. It's very important! Thirdly, beyond this project, we know that there are very important issues, especially in times of pandemic management, about the use of the personal data of our fellow citizens, in connection with the different databases. We need full transparency about what is being done, about the projects that are in the boxes. Above all, we must reassure our citizens about the use of their private data. This work must be done in a parliamentary committee. We will be partners in finding solutions in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u81	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u82	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? I would like to inform you that a point was written for your memory. This is point 7 of the draft law on proportionality prior to the adoption or amendment of occupational regulations in the health sector, Nos. 1800/1 to 3. In consultation with the rapporteur, Mrs Vanpeborgh, and after discussion with the Minister, it is proposed to postpone this point until next week, which is why this point was also indicated for the record. No observation? [[No]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u83	The Ecolo-Groen Group proposes to replace Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Vice-President, who has resigned, with Ms Cécile Thibaut. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance proposes that Mr Wouter De Vriendt be replaced by Mrs Cécile Thibaut as the outgoing Vice-President. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u84	The authors (Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Frieda Gijbels) request that their proposal for a law on the introduction of a language test for healthcare providers from the European Union in order to guarantee the quality and safety of health care, Nos. 56/1 and 2, be disjunct from the draft law on a review of proportionality prior to the adoption or amendment of occupational regulations in the health sector, Nos. 1800/1 to 3. The proposers (Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mrs Frieda Gijbels) ask that their draft law on a language test for healthcare providers from an EU country in order to ensure the quality and safety of health care, Nos 56/1 and 2, be decoupled from the draft law on a proportionality assessment prior to the introduction or amendment of professional regulations in the health sector, Nos 1800/1 to 3. J'en prends acte. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Laaouej, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the groups because the issue was first placed on the agenda of the discussion of the draft laws. That was different at first. That has been adapted to our question. I think that's important. In the meantime, you know that our group attaches great importance to bringing up the European debate in the Chamber of Representatives so that we can talk enough about the European Union here. This is important because it is an ideological debate on where we are going with the European Union, and because it is also a budgetary debate on what we are investing in the European Union and what we are getting in return. It is therefore a good thing that we have this important debate at the beginning of the afternoon. It's also good for another reason. Parliament has something to make up for. We had the debate in committee and it had to be done quickly. There was not a good room available. No room with livestream could even be found. We asked for the discussion to be postponed for a moment so that we could organise such an important debate in a proper room. That was absolutely not possible. It is therefore important that we take sufficient time this afternoon to conduct the debate, because these are important matters. [[(Rummer]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask for silence so that everyone can hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u88	Mr Secretary of State, it is about the European Union. At least you and your brother will be particularly interested. But let me return to the heart of the matter. So this is an important dossier, not just ideologically. There is also a significant budgetary impact. We are talking about EUR 1 billion. In 2019, Belgium deposited around 3.3 billion euros a year in the European greenhouse, this year, in 2021, which will be 4.3 billion euros. That is an additional EUR 1 billion, on which the EU will decide how it will be spent, not the federal government. That's a hell of a lot of money. I'm looking at the government. It was huge content a few weeks ago, because there was a European bag of money coming from the European Recovery Fund, EUR 5.9 billion. The federal government managed to rob about 1.2 billion euros of it. That ended up in the federal jar, but you've lost them again. Today we will return EUR 1 billion to the EU. I am also looking at the Socialist Group. It made the increase in minimum pensions a priority. The budget states that approximately EUR 1 billion will be needed for the year 2024. Today we will not spend that billion on pensions in Belgium. No, we will pay that amount into the European cashier. I'm also looking at the liberals. Then we like to talk about security, a theme on which different liberals seem to want to profile themselves. There is no one in the Liberal Chamber. This shows the importance they attach to the European debate. In any case, in the coalition agreement, which the Liberals are so proud of, it says that there will be additional investments in justice, 250 million, in the police, 100 million, in new barracks for Defence and in closed centres and return policy. Together, some EUR 500 million is invested in security. We could do twice as much, but the government does not, because it decides to pour EUR 1 billion into the European pot. I now turn to the ecologists and the greens. Your wish list is also included in the government agreement, such as offshore wind energy, the modernisation of the railway network, the energy neutralisation of public buildings and the reduction of CO2 emissions from gas plants. Well, you could finance all these things with that billion, and you would still have 300 million left. You could use it for the realization of other green dreams. In summary, the government has the plan or project, it says, to invest 3.2 billion. With what we are discussing here, it could immediately finance a third of it, but that choice is not made. The choice that is on the table today is whether or not that one billion is being poured into the European pot. It is a huge amount of money, and we would be expected to have notes and studies on this and that at least a very detailed note from the Secretary of State for the Budget would be available, with the current amount, evolution and accounting processing. There are a number of responsibilities attached to this, because if the European Union fails to repay a number of items, then Member States will be jointly and severally liable to other Member States. We would therefore expect a huge technical dossier to be included, because we are talking about EUR 1 billion. Such a note is not in the bundle; we do not have it, even though it has been repeatedly asked for it. We asked for the presence of the Secretary of State for the Budget. The Flemish Interest Group has also done so. We even said that she could be physically present or give written advice. However, we have not seen a note. I am also sorry that the Secretary of State, whose European passion is known, cannot be present today. It is a very important budget dossier, on which we do not really have much information. I can already see a number of colleagues thinking: there they are again, the N-VAs, with all their critical questions about Europe, those N-VAs who are not really euro-realistic, but euro-critical and against European cooperation and always say the same thing. Well, I'll answer with the adversity, which is, of course, the only truth. Of course we are in favour of good European cooperation. After all, we are Flemings. Flemish people who are against European cooperation have not fully understood it. Flanders is a trading nation. Our prosperity and well-being are based on the fact that we can trade, first and foremost with the other European Member States, but also wider, in the world. In this context, the European internal market, that trade bloc and the power that it gives us to conclude trade agreements at international level, are immensely important for our economy. We're aware of that, too. We also accept the value of European cooperation. But we don't take them blindly. It is not because there are some yellow stars on a blue flag that we are immediately jubilating that it is by definition good. It is not because it comes from Europe that we should not comment on it. Quite the contrary. Love is: being honest with each other. Love is to say where it goes wrong to call on you to do it better and differently. It is precisely because we cherish European cooperation in such a way and want us to be critical. Could it be any other way? Yeah, it could've been different. We could have had a very different debate here in Parliament, and indeed throughout the European Union and the European Council. But another track has been chosen. We are experiencing historical times. For the first time in its history, the European Union is shrinking. Smaller. For the first time. It is actually still underestimated by many people what impact it has on the organization, on the influence and on the power that we can radiate into the world. The European Union is getting smaller. A logical conclusion would be that the budget would also be reduced. If the club gets smaller, there are fewer membership fees and then one has to go to hell and therefore also adjust the budget. But no, that choice wasn't followed. On the contrary, we are not going to reduce the budget, but to increase it further, and even outside the European budget, we are going to create additional budgets to be financed by European taxes. I'll come back to that later. Things could have turned out differently, if the Brexit had indeed been estimated. It could have been different if the Belgian Government had properly negotiated at European level, which has not happened at all. The Belgian Government has completely failed in these negotiations. I have already made this point a number of times, but it is said that I am wrong and I must look at the fine trophies: in the past, if Belgium were to keep 20% of its customs revenue, it will be 25% in the future, so we are making progress. This means that we are going from EUR 500 million of income to EUR 625 million of income. So we win EUR 125 million, but we have to pay EUR 1 billion. Then explain to me how we are making progress. The second excuse to say that there has been a good negotiation is that the European Recovery Fund, a bag of money, EUR 5.9 billion in donations, is coming to Belgium. The Länder and the federal government can invest in this. However, we have been saying for years that the decisions on the European Recovery Fund are wrong: the parameters used in them are not correct. When we first made that point in Parliament, together with group leader De Roover, we were denounced. How dare we comment on the parameters of the European Union? In our view, a European corona recovery fund should be distributed by looking at which countries were most affected by corona: the countries most affected by corona should receive the most money. When we said that, it was too small, but in the meantime everyone agrees with us. A recent report by the National Bank of Belgium contains a nice table. The blue line on that shows the average of what the Member States get from the European Recovery Fund in relation to their GDP? You can guess three times which countries are above that line and which country is below the line. Under the line is Belgium, because we have poorly negotiated. The countries that are going to run with the money are the countries of southern and eastern Europe, which receive a relatively larger share of the subsidies. Belgium scores below the European average. We will guarantee some 17,5 billion of the European Recovery Fund and we will get about 5.9 billion in donations back. That's just not fair. If we look at the real economic damage in relation to GDP, Belgium would be entitled to EUR 14 billion. Mr. Van Hees, I see you picking up the eyebrows. Imagine what we could do with EUR 14 billion. Your rich tax would simply not have been necessary if we had gotten our fair share of the European cake. We would then be a lot further on budget. However, that did not happen. We have not taken the Brexit into account, we have poorly negotiated and the dossier also shows that it is going in the wrong direction with the European Union. That is the fundamental problem for me, as a fan of the European Union. I'm sorry. In your coalition agreement, you yourself say that you want to lead a pro-European course and in the first half of 2024 Belgium will take over the Presidency of the European Union. It is therefore important that you realise what you approve, that you see the right points, but also at least what points it could have been better at. It is not because it is a European compromise that it is by definition also a good agreement. Let us take a look at which direction the European Union is heading. I am a lawyer and a lawyer who likes letters, we like to look at the terms of an agreement, but that is not the way to see where the real power is. Those who want to know the real power in an organization, they follow the pennies, follow the money. Look where exactly they're investing. When you make that exercise, you don't get a pretty picture. When I look at this agreement, I see a European Union that has opted for an approach to blackmail. However, that is a word I do not use lightly. For years, different urophils have been breeding on a plan, because they want to introduce European bonds and taxes, but the Member States are always on the brakes. That is a huge ideological debate. The Verhofstadts of this world must push through because all this must be done. However, they have never succeeded. What happens now? The European Union uses the weak position of a number of Member States either because they are affected by economic or sanitary problems or because they suffer budgetary damage. The EU is taking advantage of this weak position to blackmail those Member States. Europe lets them know that they will be able to whistle at it in the future if they do not approve of it now. Is that the European Union that vivaldiists stand for? Is that the European cooperation you choose, the Europe of blackmail? I also see a Europe of bribery. After the blackmail, the bribery follows. I refer, of course, to the discussion that has taken place between the Frugal Four, the dreary four. These are the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden. I'd rather talk about the economical four. In this House, it is always interesting to stress once again that there is nothing wrong with saving taxpayers' money. Those are hard-earned pennies from the people they have to hand over to the government. It is up to all of us to be very careful about this and not to throw out windows and doors. We need to reverse every euro to see if it is the most efficient way to do something. Governments that, especially when things are going well, manage efficient and economical governance, are stronger in fiscally more difficult times. This week I watched a reportage on RTBF, La Une. In it there was a nice graph of the support given by governments in this country to the catering sector. A catering business in Brussels received 12,000 euros of support from the Brussels government. A catering shop in Wallonia received 16,500 euros. A catering store in Flanders received 40,000 euros. We can do that because Flanders traditionally treats its taxpayers' money with economy and care. Flanders has a sound fiscal policy. When things go well, it works on his economy and makes the house stand in order. This way it can pump extra when things get worse. That is, of course, the logic of economic policy. Everything is now called 'austerity'. Every reform and every saving is austerity. How short a turn can a reasoning be? Hopefully we can look at this dossier with a more neutral look, and also at the European dossier. I am pleased that the Liberals have arrived in Parliament. Maybe they can listen to the debate. I'd like to make that point about the bribery. What we have seen is that these countries have actually been bribed to a great extent with this European dossier. I don't think this is supposed to happen. In any case, we should not feel bribed in any way. Belgium certainly wasn't bribed. No, we have to pay to be bribed! We must guarantee 17.9 billion to see 5.9 billion return in donations. Unless our government calls it bribery, but then we live in a very special world. Is that the European Union that the Vivaldists want? Is that the European Union you stand for, a European cooperation of blackmail and bribery? What choices are made with that money? The reply is always that not only should we look at the amount to be contributed, we should also look at what is happening with these moneys. That is, of course, correct. It is possible that extra money may be put into, for example, European cooperation, and that proportionate policies will return to it, which will result in growth and progress. Mrs De Block, I can repeat my words just for you. Let us keep the debate serious, it is about a serious issue. I am concerned about the approach chosen by the European Union. What she's doing isn't really nice. The question is what is to be replaced. If money is given, then it is also used, and is it not in favour of Belgium and our regions? Again, of course, we are greatly benefiting from European cooperation and the European trade market. Let me look at that in the light of the direction the European Union is heading in that direction. This brings me to the issue of the European multiannual budget, which is fully linked to this. How, by what means, will the European multiannual budget be financed? We do not see enough or even the right way forward in this debate either. We need a European Union of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. That European Union must decide to invest more and more in the trade market and in an approach to common security. The European Union must finally choose to control and control the European external borders. In the field of energy cooperation, the European Union must build networks so that we can take advantage of them and invest in the best and most appropriate way, for example in green energy. Windmills should be able to be placed where there is a lot of wind blowing and solar panels where there is a lot of sun shining. In this European cooperation, we must all do our part and work together. At least I expect those choices from the European Union. However, it does not go in that direction. After all, we still see that 60% of the European budget is devoted to cohesion and agriculture. The latter is not about friendly agriculture, but mainly about large industrial agriculture, which means mainly financing in southern and eastern Europe. You really need to explain that to me. Our farmers are having a hard time today, they are really giving up. That is where the whole problem of nitrogen comes in, which puts farmers with their backs against the wall. What message does your purple green government send to our farmers? Well, your government is abandoning them. According to the current and next MFF multiannual budgets, 700 million of the tax dollars collected in Belgium go to farmers in Eastern Europe each year, not to our farmers. Those farmers in Eastern Europe are big industrial players. Last year, a newspaper wrote: "Megakippenstal in Ukraine receives 571 million European support." A huge chicken den in Ukraine, which is not even part of the European Union, will receive 571 million European cents. That is not a sustainable model, that is not fair competition. Our farmers pay taxes to subsidise their competitors. Thus, our farmers lose twice: they have to pay and they are harmed by people who are subsidised to compete here. That is simply not correct. The European Union is still not on the right model. It still opts for large industrial agriculture, which is not a sustainable model for our economy, nor for our farmers. What we must and at least want to do is to ensure that our farmers can also survive, that they can innovate and modernise. They need pennies to do that. But no, every year EUR 700 million of our tax dollars does not go to our farmers. Unfortunately, it doesn't stop there either. We have not only a European Union of wrong choices. We also have a European Union of uncertainty, which comes about with this agreement. We see a European agreement with, among other things, a recovery fund. The European agreement states that everything will be financed, partly by European taxes. However, what is not mentioned is that taxation is still a competence of the Member States. It is therefore sufficient for one Member State and course to refuse to take the route, in order to push the whole agreement on its foundations. In that case, we will no longer be able to finance the agreement. We know that there are traditionally two things that can happen: the European Union does not save, the Member States do, but it does not save itself. So what two things can happen? In other words, the Union is asking that the Member States make even more contributions of EUR 1 billion more than is not enough. Or she's gonna have to get into the MFF. We know which projects will be covered in that case. These are always the projects that are of interest to our country, such as Horizon 2020, innovation and Erasmus. It's the projects that always get to the block first. We cannot organise this uncertainty for these programmes. I come to the end of my speech. We have an agreement that is costing huge sums of money and the European Union is not moving in the right direction. Should we not protect the European Union from itself? The European Union is becoming more and more Belgian: if there is an agreement, it is already content, if a compromise has been found, it is good. It does not matter how ambitious that agreement is, a bric-à-brac agreement is enough. Colleagues, I think that our European cooperation deserves better, but then we will have to make other choices and then we will have to start using the levers we have. Those levers are not the letters and chords, but they are the pennies we deposit. That's what's on the table today. Let us use this lever to make everyone fully aware of the real added value of the European Union, which is the DNA of European cooperation, namely to make the European Union once again a solid platform for cooperation between Member States. Not a supranational almighty structure that has to solve everything, but a partnership that is useful where it is needed, and that is in many areas, and that is focused on its real DNA of cooperation. Unity in diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u89	Madam President, Minister, if I try to sum up my predecessor's speech in one sentence, I think he wants to say, above all, that it is going in the wrong direction with the European Union. You won't be surprised that I disagree with that. I have a different opinion on this. Everyone knows that our group is very much in favour of more Europe. Not only an economic union, not only for security, but also a political union, a social union, more coordination, more solidarity, more coordination and more own initiative. The approach to health measures in the different countries of Europe shows that there is still a long way to go in terms of greater coordination, but also has the advantage that more and more people are convinced that we need a stronger Europe in this kind of situation. Fortunately, the approach to the relay is better coordinated. That is where Europe takes a real lead in the investments that will be needed to get out of this crisis. Europe is not only a leader but also a driving force. Europe is well aware that there is no point in rebuilding the economy and society as it used to be, but that this can be a unique turning point for investing in the sectors of the future: digitalisation, renewable energy, sustainability. An important lever for this, ladies and gentlemen, is the possibility of providing own resources. In the long term, Mr Loones, this will reduce the dependence of individual Member States. This reduces the need for direct contributions from Member States. That's gonna give us more autonomy. It's part of growing up in Europe. Europe will be able to raise EUR 750 billion in the financial markets to finance relay policy in the form of grants and loans to Member States. The reimbursement will be based on new opportunities for Europe itself to raise its money. Think of the financial transaction tax, a review of the ETS, possibly a carbon border tax for products from outside Europe. These are choices which correspond to ideas that we have already launched in the past. That is why our group will strongly support this ratification, so that Europe is ready for an ambitious and sustainable relaunch policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u90	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first question that arises is whether, yes or no, we want to introduce new European taxes, because the corona crisis is being used to introduce a new European tax? Our group is concerned about this. As Mr Vanbesien said, it starts with a European plastic tax, but there are still a lot of taxes: a European digital tax, a European financial transaction tax, a European carbon tax and so on. This also opens the door to full fiscal competence of the European Union. Now we are talking about a plastic tax of EUR 150 million which Belgium will have to cough up to the EU and which will be passed on to the citizen, but a lot of new European taxes are already in prospect. European countries already have the highest tax rates in the OECD. New European taxes will only increase this tax burden for our companies and our citizens. These European taxes should ultimately serve as a kind of growth hormone for the formation of a European state. As Mr Vanbesien said, the Greens and this government want to make Europe a solid political union, a kind of Europe state where the Europhiles, both inside and outside this Parliament, want to flow as much power and taxes as possible. This will, of course, weaken the national Member States and not reduce their own contributions, but, on the contrary, increase them further. The Flemish interest is of the opinion that fiscal policy should remain exclusively the competence of the national states. This decision, which we are approving here today, therefore throws that principle overboard. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the second question we need to ask ourselves is whether, yes or no, we are going to borrow money from Europe to distribute subsidies? After all, the corona crisis is also being used today to distribute billions of euros in grants to mainly............................................................................................................................................................................................. So far, the European Union has not been allowed to make debts to finance its own policies. With the design before us today, that will be different. From the adoption onwards, the way is open to building a European debt mountain, a European debt burden that will have to pay off future generations, our children and grandchildren. For this you will find no ally in the Flemish Interest. This text needs to be approved in all the Member States of the European Union and we see that this work is done much more thoroughly in other parliaments, which is quite rightly so. We believe that the draft law, as it stands today in Parliament, is a lean animal and is inadequate in various areas. Firstly, the text before us lacks a thorough explanation of the impact, both qualitatively and quantitatively, of this guarantee by Belgium vis-à-vis the EU and also by the other Member States. Given the potentially significant financial size, the explanatory memorandum of the draft law is totally inadequate. Secondly, we are missing in the text before us a thorough explanation of the important precedent value of this Own Resources Decision. Several articles in the European Treaties are being thrown aside today, but the explanatory memorandum of this draft law does not pay any attention to this. Thirdly, we lack a reflection on how the Federal Parliament and the Länder will in future be informed about the debt management that is linked to this new European debt. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loones has just said that the way in which this Own Resources Decision is pushed by Parliament is truly astonishing. This is a fundamental redrafting of the European Union's revenue system, a very far-reaching and far-reaching bill with an impact up to 2058, 40 years hence. Not only did the committee meeting go on in a back room of Parliament, the Congressroom, without video, without openness and transparency, as opposed to the high-quality debate in other national parliaments of the European Union. Moreover, we must adopt this Own Resources Decision without knowing its budgetary impact. Our explicit question to the Secretary of State for the Budget was blocked in every way. It is, of course, unacceptable for such a heavy decision to be adopted without knowing the budgetary impact on the federal budget, but also on the budgets of the Länder. The Flemish Interest reiterates the explicit demand to hear the Secretary of State for the Budget regarding the budgetary implications of this Own Resources Decision on the federal state and the Länder. We are even more bewildered by the attitude of the two liberal groups in this House, the MR and Open Vld. They are here today to approve EUR 390 billion in European grants and billions in new European taxes without any hesitation and criticism. Mr Leysen is not here. Maybe he's already been embarrassed crawling under his desk. I even remember that then group leader of Open Vld, Mr Van Quickenborne, here in plenary applauded the distribution of billions of euros in grants with borrowed money. In the meantime, open Vld should know how hopelessly wrong it can be if subsidies are distributed just like that. The Liberals should be opposed to subsidies, ideologically speaking. However, if one puts the cat in the milk, it seems that they will no longer be able to do without these subsidies until sooner or later. Open Vld can testify today. Of course, the Johan Vande Lanottes of this world will not be able to change that. However, we are even more stunned by the attitude of another group in this House, namely the so-called Flemish nationalists of the N-VA. They have not only made a pirouette on the committee and today, but they are also going flat on the belly. During the vote in the European Parliament, Flemish Interest was the only Flemish party voting against this proposal. On 16 September 2020, all European MPs of the N-VA, i.e. Mr Bourgeois, Mrs Kanko and Mr Van Overtveldt, adopted this Own Resources Decision. Worse still, Mr Van Overtveldt is chairman of the Committee on Budgets in the European Parliament and was at the helm in the negotiations with the European Council and the European Commission on this Own Resources Decision. The members of the N-VA in our committee have therefore voted against the work of their own committee chairman in the European Parliament. Opposition to a rule that the N-VA, with Mr Van Overtveldt in its head, designed itself, one must dare. The N-VA not only makes a pirouette but also flattens the abdomen. In fact, Minister Van Peteghem explicitly confirmed in the committee that there was a consultation with the Prime Minister's Cabinets to decide who should ratify the Own Resources Decision. During these consultations, it was very clearly agreed that this approval would take place at the federal level. In its opinion, the Council of State states that the Regions must also give their approval. So not only the Chamber, but also the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Parliament should vote on this decision. The Flemish nationalists of the N-VA, with Minister Jambon and Minister Demir, who is responsible for this plastic tax, have given that Flemish autonomy and approval to the federal level. That's really amazing. In this federal Parliament, the N-VA says it is against this decision, but in the European Parliament and in the Flemish Parliament, the N-VA is working happily on it. One might wonder what this N-VA actually stands for? In the European Parliament it is therefore in favour, in the Federal Parliament against and in the Flemish Parliament it is abstaining from any intervention. Colleagues, each Member State must therefore pay a contribution based on the amount of non-recycled plastic packaging waste from this year on. Belgium has to cough up around EUR 150 million a year for this. The real question is, of course, who's going to pay the plastic tax. So far it has been agreed that the federal level would raise 150 million, but the Council of State clearly feels differently. In its opinion, the Council of State states that the Regions are responsible for waste policy and also for waste taxation. According to the Council of State, the Länder must agree on concrete measures so that Belgium can fulfil its European obligations. The Council of State therefore suggests that the Länder should cough up that sum. Today this debate is being pushed out of Parliament, but the question of who will have to pay will undoubtedly be put back on the board of federal and regional governments. Finally, I would like to refer to the corrections that are being made to the benefit of some Member States. Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden, like the Flemish Interest, were particularly critical of the recovery fund. Mr Loones, we are not talking about the economical four or the dirty four, but about the sensible four. They are now receiving, as a form of compensation, a substantial reduction in their contribution to the European Union. This year, Belgium's contribution to the financing of the European Union amounts to EUR 7.7 billion. The Belgian contribution to the European budget increases net by EUR 1 billion per year. Flemish people are the largest net contributors to the European Union. Belgium, apart from Spain, has the largest budget deficit in Europe. The Brexit only increases the contributions of the European Member States and, moreover, Belgium, once again especially Flanders, is disproportionately affected. However, the Belgian governments have never, ever, even made the slightest attempt to obtain a reduction in the contribution, as Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden did. My group therefore calls for the debate on the Belgian contribution to the European Union to be brought to the fore in this House. Where this debate is taking place in other Member States, quite rightly, it remains silent in Belgium. The Flemish interest will certainly not fail to insist on that. Colleagues, plans that have been in European case for years are now being implemented under the cover of corona. The corona crisis is being abused today to introduce new European taxes and to incur new European debts. The southern European countries are the big net recipients and the northern countries pay the bill. Flemish people are the largest net contributors to the European Union. That must stop because Europe is now threatening to become even more of a transfer union from North to South, as Belgium is already one today. Europe is becoming more and more a Belgium in size. Flemish Interest cannot therefore approve what is before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u91	Madam President, I would like to address Mr Vermeersch for a personal statement. Mr Vermeersch, each has his style and approach. We, with N-VA, like to oppose the Vivaldi government. I notice that Flemish Interest prefers to oppose the N-VA. Whatever you say, everyone makes their choices. In substance, I have already replied to the same remark in a room without a live stream and I will do so again now. You do not seem to understand the concept of a committee chairman or a chairman of parliament. Anyone who takes on the responsibility or task of standing in front of me in Parliament is not only a member of the party at that time, but is taking up a position. Nor do you seem to fully understand how a parliament works. These are three issues linked together: the Own Resources Decision, the European Multi-annual Budget and the European Rule of Law Mechanism. There was a gradual vote on this, with several months apart. Each time explanations of vote were given. Allow me to quote briefly from that. I will begin with the dossier on the MFF, the own resources and the recovery plan, which took place on 15 May 2020. In its explanation of vote, N-VA, among other things, said: "The N-VA remains of the view that there can be no question of introducing European taxes. We reject any new tax to finance the Union. It is also clear to the N-VA that the temporary recovery fund should for the most part consist of loans to which a repayment plan must be attached." In doing so, I gave you the opinion of our three MEPs in the European Parliament. The next report is the draft council decision on own resources, which took place on September 16th and to which you so much like to refer. The explanation of vote states: "N-VA does not accept the numerous proposals to amend the Own Resources Decision. N-VA votes against the abolition of rebates, against the reduction of collection costs and against the proposed legally binding calendar for the introduction of new own resources. N-VA maintains its view that there can be no question of introducing European taxes." I have also given the vote of our three Members of the European Parliament. On 16 December there was a vote on Council regulation concerning the MFF. Once again, I would like to quote a very brief quote: "To achieve this objective, a further shift must be made in the budget. However, I note, along with my colleagues in the N-VA delegation, that, although there are already a number of intentions, this shift is certainly insufficient to achieve the desired effect." That is the explanation of vote by N-VA'er Johan Van Overtveldt, who is also chairman of the Committee on the Budget in the European Parliament. On 9 February there will be the vote establizing the recovery and resilience facility. Now, what do the N-VA elected Members of the European Parliament say? "Furthermore, it is incomprehensible that most of the allocation of funds has been made on the basis of historical macroeconomic data from Member States that are not adapted to the corona pandemic. The Union is built on responsibility and solidarity, in that order." So, Mr Vermeersch, sell all the strings you want, be sure to oppose the opposition. I know very well what the N-VA stands for, and our Members of the European Parliament know this as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u92	Madam President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond. Mr Loones, you are talking about opposition to opposition. That is true, because, of course, I like intellectual honesty in the debate. On the role of the committee chairman, you know much better than I do that the role of a committee chairman in Parliament is not the same as that role in the European Parliament. That is where the committee chairman conducts the negotiations with the European Commission and the European Council. That is a very different context from that in Parliament. I do understand very well how Parliament works and, above all, I understand that you are running away during my reply, even though you have asked questions about how the N-VA works. Explanations of vote are of course easy, but what matters most is how one pushes the button. I note that the N-VA has pressed the positive button in the European Parliament, pressed the negative button in the federal Parliament and abstained in the Flemish Parliament. Mr Loones, may I in turn ask you a question? If you think it is such an important dossier, why do Prime Minister Jambon and Minister Demir stop voting in the Flemish Parliament? I invite you to put the matter to the vote in the Flemish Parliament. If it's such an important point for your party, why are your own ministers stopping the boat? Why do they say to the federal level and to Minister Van Peteghem that the federal level can ratify? It is unseen that Flemish nationalists renounce the power to adopt a European decision. I find that unacceptable. That is why we are putting this forward here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u93	Mr Vermeersch, if you are intellectually honest and know your files, you acknowledge that if, for example, a tax on plastics should be introduced, there will still have to be a vote on it and today's vote will not be the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u94	Mr Loones, I have just been thrown out of line. Today, however, the basis is laid here. If we adopt the Own Resources Decision here today, the plastic tax is a fact and only the discussion remains on who will have to pay it. Will that be the Flemish level, as indicated by the Council of State, or will that be the federal level, as agreed between the negotiators in September 2020? That is the key question, which lingers. If you approve the decision here today, if Parliament approves it today, the calf has drowned and it is too late. The discussion about who has to pay is then ultimately a rearguard fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u95	Madam President, after this small chamary between Flemish nationalists, I will allow myself to intervene. The draft law aims at assent to the decision of the Council of the European Union on the EU's own resources system. I will start by looking at the EU's own decision-making process. This is something that deserves to be stressed, because it is important to know that the Council can only adopt its decision after consulting the European Parliament. To repeat a brief history of this process, an agreement was reached in January 2020 and a draft decision was forwarded to the European Parliament for its opinion. In September 2020, the European Parliament proposed several amendments, not small amendments for form, but substantive amendments proposing significant changes to the text. Do you know what the Council has done with these proposals? Nothing! He threw them in the trash and ignored them at all, since the Council decision of 14 December 2020 is almost entirely identical, word for word, to the original draft. We can see this contempt of the Council for the European Parliament, which is, let us recall, the only body elected within the European institutions. We therefore have an elected body, but we do not take its views into account at all. Yet there was significant progress in these European Parliament amendments. This shows the anti-democratic nature of the EU, since it is not the elected body that decides, but many others. Moreover, it is said that if the EU applied to be a member of the EU, its candidacy would be refused! If the opinion of the European Parliament had been taken into account, the idea of intra-European solidarity would have been much better preserved. [[But it's not just that!]] The European Parliament also proposed own resources which, in my opinion, are interesting: part of the revenue generated by the digital services tax; part of the corporate income tax – in relation to the common consolidated corporate tax base, which is still to be implemented –; the revenue from a tax on financial transactions, which was also mentioned in the text, but much more concretely. Here, a construction site is launched but we don't know where and when it will end. There is therefore only a democratic deficit in this process. There is, of course, an authorisation to borrow EUR 750 billion to finance the recovery plan. Of course, the PTB supports the idea of a comprehensive recovery plan if it is not intended to give gifts to multinationals, but to really boost public investment. In Europe and in particular Belgium, the rate of public investment has collapsed in a few decades. Since the 1970s, this rate has indeed collapsed, in particular because of the austerity policy which has been imposed and which will continue to be imposed, after a small parenthesis. Are these 750 billion equal to the stakes? They cover the period 2021-2026, which amounts to 125 billion per year. By way of comparison, if we take the European Parliament's resolution of 13 November 2020 on the investment plan for a sustainable Europe, the estimated needs were 662 billion per year. Comparing this sum to the 125 billion mentioned above, there is a large gap between the two. In addition, these figures are based on a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. However, this target has been revised upwards, as we are now talking about 55%. So, just for this climate objective, we're far from the point. The same is true in Belgium since the recovery plan at Belgian level falls short of the societal, environmental or economic stakes. In such debates, we must always ask ourselves who will pay. I'm asking, who's going to pay? If there is a fairly successful element in own resources, it is the "plastic waste" contribution. The new own resource will be a contribution of EUR 0.8 per kilo of unrecycled plastic waste. The Commission estimates that this could bring about €6 to €8 billion for the European Union as a whole. If you apply this at the level of Belgium – where this will result in the introduction of a plastic tax – on the basis of 2018 figures, it can be estimated that this will amount to 134 million euros per year. Another new tax on consumption, such as VAT and excise duties, which are known to be the most antisocial. Consumer taxes are 19th-century taxes, explains Thomas Piketty, because they are regressive. It is the lowest income that contributes the most since all their income is generally dedicated to consumption. Compared to a hoarding household, the one who totally consumes pays more taxes on income, especially taxes of this kind, which are already regressive in themselves. This is a fixed amount per person, regardless of their income. In addition, as is often the case in this type of tax, one may wonder about the effectiveness, the purpose or rather the pretext displayed in terms of reducing the consumption of plastic. If the aim of the measure was really to reduce plastic consumption, the budgetary objective would not be achieved. It's kind of like when this government increases the excise duty on tobacco. If it were really to fight smoking, if we really were to achieve a result in the fight against smoking, we wouldn't have any extra revenue. There is also the tax on financial transactions, which the PTB has long supported. It is also mentioned in the contributions. First, these new resources are only envisaged from 2024 at the earliest. Secondly, it is a commitment set out in a road map that is not legally binding. Thirdly, it is only expected that the Commission will consider whether other own resources can be considered. Finally, these new resources would only be used to pre-empt the EUR 750 billion loan. When we see the few countries that have worked on the tax on financial transactions in the area of enhanced cooperation, and when we see how long it has taken and continues to take, particularly with a former Belgian Finance Minister, Mr. Van Overtveldt, who has done everything possible to curb the process at European level, I am not reassured. Who pays when you don't make speculators pay? It's the population. It is clear that the population will pay this antisocial tax on plastic. But when it comes to making speculators pay, the N-VA slows down the four irons. And I'm not much more reassured by Mr. Van Peteghem. It is true that, compared to Mr. Van Overtveldt, there is, in appearance, an opening. But when we ask Minister Van Peteghem about the question, his answers are not reassuring. When I asked him, again yesterday in committee, whether he was sure that with all the exemptions that might be foreseen, there would not be a large gruyère or an emmental where the holes are larger than the cheese, I did not receive any clarification. I am therefore not reassured of what this tax on financial transactions will be if it ever succeeds. We can also see what is not found in this multiannual financial framework. What is not there is an ambitious strategy on the taxation of multinational enterprises, in particular on the basis of a common consolidated base, which the European Parliament proposed. What is not, it is a tax on the wealth of the millionaires or billionaires that are increasingly numerous. What is not there is a real fight against tax fraud, against tax evasion, against tax havens. What is not, is an ambitious plan for structural, stable and sustainable public investment that puts an end to the austerity policy that the European Union has been pursuing for so many years. Yet let us listen to our Secretary of State for Recovery, Thomas Dermine. Some time ago in committee, he told us that he thought that the European Union had understood that there was a need for a paradigm shift with a easing of the fiscal straitjacket and encouragement of public investment. When we see this text, we can be sceptical about the change in paradigm that the European Union would have made all of a sudden. The first recital in the Council Decision of 14 December mentions the need for strict budgetary discipline. We are going back to the traditional budgetary austerity imposed by the budgetary gendarme, the European Commission. In addition, while there should be a structural and significant increase in public investment, the multiannual financial framework explicitly provides that there can be no new borrowing after 2026, that the increase in resources is temporary, and that it is exclusively intended to repay the loan. In short, contrary to what the Secretary of State for Recovery believes – and I would have liked him to be right – there is no paradigm shift. The European Union remains this anti-social Europe of big companies, multinationals and austerity. Following this more than mixed record, where there are certainly positive elements but where there is still a mass of negative elements, the PTB will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u96	After Mr Van Hees' speech, I can be brief. I wasn't under my couch, but I heard you, ladies and gentlemen. Of course without me particularly interested in who is Flemish and better defends the Flemish cause. We are sitting here in a forum that has about the composition of the Finance Committee. So I will not repeat myself. We shall vote in favour of this bill. It is clear that the use of resources in Europe requires equal vigilance and that it is not easy to manage large institutions and large institutions. We will all have to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u97	I would like to put a short question to Mr Leysen. I noticed that your video about soap and the Dash box took longer than your speech about EUR 1 billion, which is no longer spent by Parliament, but by the European level. I don't know if there's an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u98	(...) recorded the video about Dash. That was a colleague. Furthermore, we have held the discussions in the Finance Committee and I have been more detailed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u99	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u100	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1792/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1792/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u102	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 765: Joris Vandenbroucke 582: Ahmed Laaouej, Malik Ben Achor, Hugues Bayet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vanbesien, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u104	Colleagues, the present legislative proposal simply seeks to anchor an existing practice legally. Today, prior decisions or rulings are already published by the ruling service. Any decision by the Prior Decision Service shall be published, even if it is negative. The publication of a decision may take some time. For example, a decision was published in October 2020 from "Just hold on to it' 2012. With this legislative proposal, the authors now want to lay down that practice of publication by law, no more or less than that. We shall therefore vote in favour of the simple proposal, because it is so simplistic that it is virtually impossible to vote against it. The issue of legal certainty for prior decisions is not dealt with by the legislative proposal. Unfortunately, the Minister has just walked away from me, perhaps he can hear me from the coffee room, but my good colleague Kurt Ravyts questioned the Minister yesterday. Meanwhile, it has been found that the Special Tax Inspectorate does not always comply with the decisions taken by the Prior Decisions Department. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's initiatives to eliminate the conflicts between his two departments of the FPS Finance and ensure legal certainty for companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u105	Madam President, first of all I would like to say that this system is legal. It allows businesses and municipalities – and not just multinationals – to pass through a particularly complex tax system. It's a beneficial system. It had already been the practice to communicate the decisions taken. The colleague's proposal further improves this transparency. That's a very good thing. Finally, all the companies and municipalities concerned with this difficulty of setting up the right procedures will be able to obtain the way forward. This is a good bill, which we will support, and which once again calls for transparency and for the likely simplification of our tax system. We will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised that my appreciation of the rules and the role of the Anticipated Decisions Service differs somewhat from that of Mr Piedboeuf. Of course, one can cite the counter-example of my colleague's municipality, which calls for this service. However, it is clear that this body is tax-free, especially for large companies and large fortunes, while the ordinary taxpayer is only entitled to tax-ready. In addition, we see a certain affinity of the members of the governing body of the Anticipated Decisions Service with the applicants. This proximity is expressed in particular through cruises on luxury yachts. In the end, the rate of approval of the rulings reaches 98% of the tax packages submitted by multinationals. Subsequently, a tax controller cannot challenge these decisions. Evidence of this is that, in the two flagrant cases in which the ISI did so, this triggered a state case leading to a proposed reform of this service, on the ground that the ISI had dared to challenge illegal settlements for amounts exceeding one billion euros. It is recalled that the LuxLeaks case in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg concerned rulings. I remind you that it was in this room, in 2017, that the one who was still President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, had come to answer the questions of the Belgian Members. I had just stopped him on the LuxLeaks. What did he say to me? I would like to take up the report, as precisely as Mr Juncker said, in order to defend himself from what I blamed him on LuxLeaks from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Mr Juncker then replied: "When I was a young Minister of Finance (in Luxembourg of course), there were many who were knocking at my door to tell me "if you don't do this, we are going to Belgium because the Belgians offered us this and that". So tax gifts were offered by Belgium or the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It was the tax shopping that multinationals could do. It was about the rulings. What we are discussing here is a bill not on the rules but on their transparency. Those who would have had the opportunity to read the report will see that there is a very great difference between my intervention in committee on 27 October 2020 and my intervention in committee on 23 February 2021. On 27 October 2020, I fully support this proposal by Mr Joris Vandenbroucke of the Sp.a., who aims to make the rules transparent and obliges the individual publication of the rules, where it is known that the policy of the SDA on publication, even if it is already obliged to do so by royal decree, is quite doubtful. Total transparency is the least that can be demanded of this system, which in itself is already highly questionable. On 23 February 2021, I changed my attitude because an amendment was introduced, which seriously changed the original text. This amendment is co-signed by the Socialists and the CD&V and follows the opinion of the FPS Finances. In my opinion, it was imposed by right-wing parties in the Vivaldi coalition, the CD&V and the Liberals. I will therefore turn instead to these right-wing parties, which have imposed a strong change in the original text, which was very good. Gentlemen of the right, you have deleted three essential elements from the original proposal. First, the original proposal provided that the text of the ruling itself should be made public. The names are barred, but the rest is the ruling as the applicant received it. What remains of this? The amended proposal provides for the publication not of the text but of a summary of the ruling. This is a first way to empty the content of the proposal. Secondly, the original proposal provided that all the rulings would be published individually. The amended proposal allows the Anticipated Decisions Service to collectively publish similar rules. While the wording is a little different from that of the original text, I fear that the Anticipated Decisions Service will retain the power to interpret similar rules and use this discretion to reduce transparency and avoid the individual publications that would be required. Third, the original proposal embodied the transparency of the rules in the law. What is the amended proposal doing? It amends a royal decree and thus allows the government to change the rules of transparency in the future without going through Parliament. You see that, of the three essential elements of this bill, the amendments imposed by the right-wing parties of the Vivaldi completely distorted the text and emptied it of its substance. In committee, this prompted me to abstain on this text. Here, in plenary, we will vote in favour of this text, because somewhere its original intention was transparency. We want to support the intention of transparency. At the same time, however, we maintain that the original text has been completely emptied of its substance. It is a reality that, under the pressure of the right-wing parties, everything that was disturbing was removed and a rather insignificant text was finally made, which will guarantee very little transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u107	Mr. Van Hees can't help but sue for intent, as usual. The right has absolutely not pushed for anything. There were remarks from the administration itself. Indeed, the administration has well understood the value of transparency, which is to say the right, to try to establish jurisprudence in relation to decisions that are taken. This is the difference between the transparency of decisions that are taken to make law and unhealthy curiosity. In your case, it's an unhealthy curiosity. What you want to know is who benefited from this. That's your problem! We want transparency so that law, and tax law in particular, can be more easily applied. That is why we supported our colleague's proposal. We have not put any pressure on this amendment to be drafted. It is the administration which, in order to be able to respond to the demand for transparency, felt that it was necessary to simplify rather than to oblige to make publications in extenso of the number of decisions that are taken, which you denounce yourself as being very high.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u108	I have nothing to add to Benoît Piedboeuf's first and second intervention. They can also be written on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u109	Mr Piedboeuf, I do not understand your argument very well. You're saying it's unhealthy curiosity. However, it is clearly stated in the proposed law that publication is anonymous. In doing so, I don't see why you're talking about unhealthy curiosity. The problem lies in the fact that, when a text such as it has been rendered is not published and a summary is made of it to remove so-called principles of law, it is obviously possible to hide things that might be unfavorable. That makes you laugh! But when we see the decisions that have been made in cases like AB InBev, we can only be questioned. I quote one of the cases that have been mentioned in the press. This information does not come from the Anticipated Decisions Service's report or website. It happens that there are leaks in the press. On the other hand, it is true that the questionable policies in terms of conflict of interest of the members of the College of the Anticipated Decisions Service exist. I will not recall cruises, participation in seminars, etc. Nor will I recall the links between the business world, multinationals and the political world. If we take the case of AB InBev, we know that a former Prime Minister sat on the board of directors. This is indeed a problem. However, once again, the discussion was not about the removal of anonymity, but about individual publication and in the full text of all decisions. It was the sp.a's initial proposal that was totally distorted by the right of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u110	Madam President, we are not committed to the tax voyeurism advocated by Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as one speaker said, this is a simple bill, but a bill does not necessarily have to be a complicated telephone book to be relevant and important. That is also the case for this bill, which is very relevant. It concerns the system of tax rulings, the ability of a taxpayer to clarify its tax situation in advance and to avoid unpleasant surprises afterwards. We believe that this is an instrument which certainly has its place in Belgian taxation. It also ensures that our country can be attractive to foreign investors who would like to know in advance what they are up to. It is, of course, important that such an instrument can never be misused to make arbitrary decisions or to allow a certain preferential treatment. In order to avoid this, it is necessary for each taxable person to be able to ascertain the arrangements made in order to rely on them or not. So I propose in my legislative proposal, Mr Van Hees, to publish all those rulings individually. That was the case at first, and it is still the case, and it will be the result if it is approved. That is indeed the practice today, but it was not until a few years ago. Think of the excess profit rotations or excess profit rulings. Of this we know that for five years they remained completely below the waterline and that they were not fished until afterwards in the form of a collective publication in the annual report of the Prior Decisions Service. That collective publication excelled in generalities and was not very informative. We must get rid of this practice, but the relevant law and, above all, the Royal Decree-Law still leaves that possibility open. Fortunately, for several years, Mr Vanden Berghe's services have been publishing the rulings individually, in a correct manner. We consider the legal anchoring of this to be important. Whatever you are trying to make of it, Mr Van Hees, that is precisely the intention of this bill. We have indeed tabled a number of amendments, and I would like to thank colleagues, both from the majority and from the opposition, and the Minister's cabinet for their constructive contribution to this legislative proposal. The result is that the ruling service can only publish rulings individually, except for one exception, i.e. when several rulings are agreed, which are completely identical except in terms of the applicant. Last year, for example, more than 1,000 identical rulings were agreed on, for example, the use of office equipment and telework. It would indeed be a form of administrative nuisance should all be published individually. Mr Van Hees, I have reread the report on the discussion of the legislative proposal. You were in favour of it first, and then you weren't, but I don't understand why. After all, the explanatory memorandum of the legislative proposal has always stated that the aim was not more than to legally anchor the existing practice of recent years, and that is exactly what we are doing. We do this in a way as advised by the FPS Finance, namely to adjust the right royal decision. You are dragging all kinds of elements into this, which we have never mentioned, not in the explanatory statement and not in the legislative proposal itself. You give me all kinds of intentions I haven't had. If those fantasies are necessary to change your mind, do so. You keep going in circles, we're moving forward with this coalition. Witness this bill and the bill we'll be discussing shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u112	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u113	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (765/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (765/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Laaouej, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Leysen who refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u116	Madam President, it is a strange draft law, because there are two chapters in it that have absolutely nothing to do with each other, which also requires me to make our votes on each chapter very clear. For the first chapter on family taxation, I would like to go back to a decision taken in December 2020 under the programme law by the current majority, of which this draft law or chapter is the extension or follow-up. I would like to come back to this because it has been an important decision. This is because it concerns the tax concession for carers. The measure was proposed in December 2020 as a tax reduction and as a favourable tax measure. At that time we argued that we did not think that was the case in globo. We also asked for figures on the number of beneficiaries or carers affected by the decision from 2021 to 2024. After all, the full impact of the reform will only be felt from the 2024 revenue year onwards. I only received the figures in response to a written parliamentary question to the Minister in January 2021. They are relevant, also for the current debate. These figures show that, from 2024 onwards, only about 11,000 of the nearly 90,000 carers who benefit from an additional tax benefit will be left. About 75,000 carers lose their tax advantage. So it seems to me to be a little social measure. It is also not understandable that this incentive is being taken away from people to take care of their parents, brothers or sisters at home, even if they do not have a severe handicap. We found this very difficult to understand in December. We still find it very difficult to understand how this measure will be implemented. As a follow-up, today the government comes with an adjustment of the system. They say that makes sense. I can track that at a certain height. The statutory retirement age, from 2026 to 66 years and from 2030 to 67 years, will be integrated into the system of tax relief for carers. This means that we will have to wait one or two more years from 2026 and 2030, respectively, before we are entitled to this benefit as a caregiver. The Minister said that this makes sense. This pension reform was decided in the previous legislature. What I find less logical, then, is that this logic is not applied to the tax relief for the disabled person himself. We are therefore going to amend the statutory retirement age in the tax code if it is in favour of the State Treasury, but if it is in favour of the disabled person, the taxpayer, then we are not prepared to accept the amendment we have written about it. If it's okay with the State Treasury, it's okay. If it's good for the taxpayer, it can't be. We find that very regrettable. The agenda of the plenary also includes a revision of the Constitution with regard to the entry of the right for disabled people in the Constitution. We have said in committee that we certainly understand this, but we must also be able to transcend symbolism. Specific legislation must be adapted to the benefit of the disabled. This is an example where the government could have shown that it transcends the symbolism of a Constitutional entry. Here we could have made an adjustment for the disabled in the tax legislation. I really think it's a missed chance that this doesn't happen. We are therefore clearly opposed to this amendment proposed today in Chapter 1. On Chapter 2, which covers a completely different matter, the tax and social regularization that will be stopped from 2024, I will be shorter. We understand that measure. It is a measure that makes sense in itself. This is understandable after 20 years of fiscal and social regulation, after 20 years of EBA. We would have preferred the government to have waited for the Court of Auditors' report on EBAc. We would also have liked to have seen the concrete plan of action to overcome the gap in justice from 2024 onwards. Because even in the area of public prosecutorial treatment, a uniform approach is needed across the territory to tackle tax and financial crime. We would have preferred to have seen the whole thing together, namely the abolition of regularization, combined with a concrete plan by the Minister of Justice on how to fill the gap. That does not prevent us from being in favour of this section, this chapter of the draft law. However, since there are two totally different texts in one draft law, we will have to abstain on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u117	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud and the fight against black money is one of the priorities in the policies of this Vivaldi government and of this Vivaldi coalition. That is not only true, ladies and gentlemen, because it generates money, but it is mainly because many good people have to pay more taxes, just because there are some less good people who avoid their duty. It hits the chest. This government hasn't been working for six months. However, several steps have already been taken in the fight against fraud and in increasing transparency. Transparency has been increased by ensuring that the account balances are collected at the Central Contact Point. That law has been passed. We have just discussed Mr Vandenbroucke's bill, which will also increase transparency and will be voted on shortly. The Minister has launched a programme to improve the whole anti-fraud process and to better coordinate the actors. That process is ongoing. There is a commitment to recruit extra specialised staff to step up the fight, and today there is the important signal to the owners of black money that the possibility of regularising it ends. From January 1st 2024 it is done. In this respect, I call upon those who have forgotten to regularize their black money to do so quickly. After 1 January 2024 it will no longer be possible and sanctions will follow. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that I welcome this concrete step in the government's plan to combat tax fraud. It's an important signal that we're serious about this fight. As a green party, we take that battle with us on the front line. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this bill with complete conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u118	Madam President, in this draft law we see two subjects that are not at first sight related, but are nevertheless grouped together in one document. Anyone who approaches the issues in this draft law from a political point of view will, of course, understand the coherence of these two points. Chapter 1 of this draft law aligns the legislation on raising the retirement age from 65 to 67 years. The Socialists and the Greens are therefore involved in the practical implementation of raising the retirement age from 65 to 67 years. Before the elections, the retirement age at 65 years was a breaking point, after the elections helping socialists and greens to work out the retirement age at 67 years. I quote from De Tijd of 24 April 2019: "The group leaders of sp.a., Joris Vandenbroucke and Meryame Kitrir, proposed the socialists' programme for the elections on 26 May. Like the French-speaking socialists, sp.a also wants to reduce the retirement age to 65 years. "For us, that's a breaking point," the Socialists said at a press conference." Well, we want to see this breaking point confirmed here in the Chamber before the elections. That is why we are calling for the Article-by-Article vote on this draft law. Flemish interest wants to know from the socialists whether the breaking point before the elections is still a breaking point today. The second chapter deals with the cessation of regularisations, clearly a socialist demand which is directly reflected in the opinions of Mr Vandenbroucke, whom I now see nodding. Anyone who puts Mr Vandenbroucke's opinion papers before the formation of the government in addition to the government's work will see that his opinions are almost fully incorporated into government policy. This proves once again our view that the PS and the Socialists determine the country's fiscal policy. The second chapter of the draft law was finally added to make the first chapter digestible to the socialists. Chapter 1, the adjustment of the retirement age to 67 years, will not be supported for the sake of clarity. The Flemish Interest has always resisted the raising of the retirement age. We need to increase the effectiveness of older workers. It is not the retirement age that is important, but the length of the career. Raising the retirement age to 67 was mainly a missed opportunity to increase the level of activity in older workers. Last month we read in De Standaard that Belgium is on its way to a half million long-term sick. Experts also refer to pension measures. If the retirement age is increased from 65 to 67 years, but nothing is done for older workers in the labour market, then they simply fall out and become part of the long-term disease system. This increase in retirement age is therefore one of the reasons for the increase in the number of long-term sick. Chapter 2, the cessation of the regularisations, we will support for clarity. In the coalition agreement it was decided to put an end to the regularizations. However, the current system was introduced in 2016 as a permanent system with an annual increase in the rates of the regularisation charge until 1 January 2020. As a result of the system being discontinued, the government is, of course, hoping for additional income. The reasoning is that anyone who realizes that he or she has only one chance to regularise past fiscal shortcomings will be more likely to do so eventually. Whether that will actually be the case, we can doubt. Most tax sinners have already regularized their tax situation. The people who wanted to make use of the current regularisation levy probably have already done so when the rates of the regularisation charge were lowest. In addition, the most rebellious leftovers will not necessarily be convinced to proceed to fiscal regularisation. Moreover, it should be noted that the discontinuation of the legal system of tax regularisations may reopen the door to tax corrections through local control or through the Special Tax Inspectorate. After all, a taxpayer always has the opportunity to confess his tax sins to the local auditor. We therefore doubt whether the cessation of the regularisations, as approved today, will be the golden chicken that the government is waiting for. Let me be clear: when we vote on the Rule by Rule, we will approve the articles on regularisation, but the articles on raising the retirement age will of course not be approved, politically consistent as we are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u119	Madam President, this is obviously not a left/right montage. Simply, from the moment these two components of the programme law could not be examined by the Council of State, which considered that there was no urgency since this did not apply directly in 2021, we now represent them. There is no political association or assembly. These are fantasies of those who like to tell stories. On the one hand, it is a technical adaptation in relation to the change in the pension age. This had to be corrected technically. On the other hand, in preparation for the tax reform on which the minister is working, and which we will support, it is a matter of sending a clear signal that there is still a chance to regularize and that after that, it is over. I hear my colleague say that those who had to regularize have done so. No! We know that there are still many amounts that are not regularized. Those who do not want to regularize know that they have one last chance and that, if we fall on them after, it will be even worse. That's one last possibility. It is clear and it sends the signal that after that, it is over, and that the simplification of our tax system will – we all hope – improve tax fairness. We will obviously support this text, even if it has two components, because it corresponds to what was provided for in the programme law which could not be analysed at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u120	A question for colleague Piedboeuf. If these two subjects have no coherence whatsoever and do not belong together politically, why were they not submitted separately to Parliament? That would make more sense, wouldn't it? It is precisely because they have a political coherence that they are submitted on one document.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u121	Both texts were intended to be voted together in the programme law. They were not analysed by the Council of State because both would take office during the legislature and not in 2021. They were associated as the Council of State associated them in the non-examination, that's all!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u122	As one train can hide another, one tax measure can visibly hide another! It is true that what catches the attention in this text is the end of the tax amnesty as early as 2024, but this draft also contains what is called in a very neutral way "the provisions on family taxation". Mr Piedboeuf speaks of a "purely technical" part! Technical, but which still costs the taxpayer money! I'll come back. Mixing these two "tax provisions" which, apart from the fact that they affect taxation, have nothing to do with it, is not a correct procedure for parliamentary debate, Minister. For the parliamentary debate calls for transparency of debates and votes, also with regard to the citizens who follow parliamentary work. Here you obscure the debate and the votes on this text. The argument that we heard in committee and that Mr. Piedboeuf and you, Mr.Minister, repeat is that it is only the two parts of the program law, as if it were obvious that they were put in the same text! Excuse me, the argument is laughable, because either you have not thought (which I will not insult you to think), or there is a will to manipulate to put together two provisions which are very different and which, in the head of the PTB, call for totally different and opposite votes. That is why we have asked for a separate vote on the various chapters today in plenary to make this clear. Who supports one of the provisions and who supports the other? As far as the end of the tax amnesty is concerned, I will not go back to the history of the amnesty, but it must be remembered that it was the Minister of Finance Didier Reynders who promoted the first tax amnesty in the early 2000s, under the name of the "Single Declaration of Release" (DLU). We are now in the fourth phase. The problem with these tax amnesties is that, in the short term, they can, of course, bring money back into the caisses – because some fraudsters regularize their situation – but they send them first of all the following message: "Go ahead, cheat! One day or the other, you will be able to regularize your situation anyway!" Therefore, we can only support this decision to terminate LMD 4. What, however, is it accompanied by? Of course, the mechanism will be stopped in 2024, but what could be the reason why fraudsters should be in order by then? I am thinking in particular of the EUR 50 billion in Belgian accounts, which are capital whose interest alone has been settled. Moreover, it is not the PTB that mentions this amount of 50 billion, but the president of the Anticipated Decisions Service, also in charge of tax regularizations. What kind of magic wand will this money go into the crates? I would remind you that Mr Vanden Berghe, the chairman of the department, was defending a new amnesty. It's an idea I don't support. On the other hand, I agree with the proposal to lift bank secrecy once and for all. Indeed, this constitutes a Belgian anomaly. We thought that Vivaldi would put an end to the existence of bank secrecy, a completely insane system, since the tax authorities are better informed about what is on bank accounts opened abroad by Belgian citizens than on Belgian accounts themselves – where the 50 billion capital is kept, in a way laundered, but without having been regularised by means of a payment. In its 2021-2023 budget tables, the government recorded $240 million for the three years. First of all, we do not know how they will enter, but above all this amount is totally derisory in view of the 50 billion capitals whose only interest was settled by the first three DLU operations. The rest of the amount of fraud is therefore very real. Mr. Van Besien, I like to hear you say that the government has defined the fight against tax fraud as one of its priorities. For me, this decision is in contradiction with the maintenance of bank secrecy. Moreover, in his interview in Trends-Tendances this week, the Minister of Finance sets out his three priorities, none of which is the fight against tax evasion! I have no doubt that you are insisting on this fight against tax evasion. The problem is, you're not the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance is Mr. Van Peteghem, who does not regard the fight against tax fraud as one of his priorities. And who am I to question Mr. Van Peteghem in Today's Trends-Trends? The priority of Mr. Instead, Van Peteghem is taking advantage of Brexit to make Belgium a new city. It is known how the City of London is a tax haven for many particularly questionable financial engineering manipulations. This is the model that the Minister is aiming at and which is therefore the opposite of the fight against tax fraud. It is known that attractiveness is the argument generally used with respect to countries considered as tax havens. I close this chapter to go to the next chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u123	I would like to reply briefly, Mr Van Hees. I seem to recall that you were also present when we discussed the Minister's policy paper. I think that the priorities that the Minister has expressed in his policy paper are higher than what you read in an interview in a booklet. I hope that we can leave it at that and put you back on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u124	A little personal fact. I am glad that Mr Vanbesien has defended me in that too. I have always made it clear in all the speeches, both here in Parliament and in the press, that the fight against tax fraud and fraud in general, the coordination of this fight, is an absolute priority for me. In fact, we have already prepared a first plan in the College this week, which is now going to the government. You will soon see what it contains, Mr Van Hees, and you will also see that the fight against tax fraud is an absolute priority for me and for this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u125	Minister, you will recognize that the fight against tax evasion is not one of your three priorities, where the journalist manipulated things. This government is so anxious to fight tax fraud that it had forgotten that the government agreement specified that there was a coordinator in the fight against tax fraud. We had to change your powers by adding "coordinator to the fight against tax fraud". In fact, I had to ask a parliamentary question to make that point and to change your powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u126	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u127	That's the reality! You didn't have that assignment at first! It was in the government agreement and the government believes it so much that it did not give you the allocation. We had to straighten things out after all. Madam Chair, I will move on to the second chapter of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u128	Mr. Laaouej, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u129	I'm thinking about it, Madam President, because, frankly, if we have to respond to such aberrations... it's in the government agreement. Who coordinates the fight against tax fraud? He's the Minister of Finance. I can't see there was a secretary of state, as there was in the past. The one who is in charge of the fight against tax fraud is, of course, the Minister of Finance. The internal organization of the government to coordinate fraud in general is a matter of internal government management. At some point, you may, I believe, have other, somewhat more serious issues to deal with in this Parliament. It's really aberrant! I knew you more inspired!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u130	This confirms that it was not intended that there would be this coordinator in the fight against tax fraud. You can laugh, but it still shows how far this is not a priority for this government. He does not even think of giving the allocation to a minister who must coordinate the various forms of struggle. If colleagues allow, we will close this chapter and move on to what the government calls family taxation, which, for Mr Piedboeuf, is purely technical. What is it in reality? It's nothing technical. It is Article 132 § 1, 7° of the Income Tax Code which grants an income supplement exempt from tax to taxpayers who have a parent, grandparent, brother, sister who has reached the age of 65. It is known that, for dependants, there is a tax-exempt quota. When that dependant has reached the age of 65, an additional tax-exempt quota is granted. What is this bill doing? It increases this minimum age. It is no longer 65 years but it becomes 66 years from 2025 and 67 years from 2030. Mr. Piedboeuf said it was purely technical, but it is also in the explanatory memorandum. The Minister of Finance said: "With this bill, the age test of 65 is aligned with the statutory retirement age." It's actually purely technical. But what is the reality of this measure? This is a tax increase for all the people involved. Finally, there is a double penalty. The Michel government had raised the pension age from 65 to 66 and 67 years. The De Croo government adds a layer and uses this social measure to introduce a new tax increase. This is surprising on the part of the formations of this majority. This is surprising from the Liberals, first of all. How many times have we heard Mr Piedboeuf say, "No new tax with this government!" When one tells him that a third of the budget effort comes from the tax, he tells us: "Yes, but when I say "no new tax", it means "no further increase in the tax on natural persons". In this case, what is it? This is an increase in the tax on natural persons. This is quite surprising in relation to the tax demagogy of the Liberals, who tell us that they are reducing the tax on natural persons, and who here are increasing it. It is also surprising on the part of the left-wing parties of Vivaldi who, under the previous legislature, had fought fiercely, side by side with the PTB, the raising of the pension age from 65 to 66 and 67, and who, today, rely on this measure to justify a tax increase. It's kind of disturbing. What is the justification? Apart from this artificial technical justification, there is no real justification for such a measure, especially when we know the situation of pensioners and the level of pensions in Belgium, which is infinitely lower than in neighbouring countries. What does this mean in practice? What is the amount of the bill for the people concerned, who for a year will lose this benefit, and even for two years from 2030? How much more will they pay? I asked the Minister of Finance in committee. He wouldn't answer me. Why? What's his excuse? He says that "since adaptations will only take effect in a few years, it is premature to give an answer today. In five to ten years, the tax situation could have changed in such a way that the answer given today would be completely outdated." So we are talking about a measure that will apply in 2025 and it is said that it is too far away to give estimates. Excuse me, minister, it is not serious as an answer or as a pretext to refuse to answer! 2025 is soon! An estimate made today is totally legible for a situation that will occur from 2025. As the minister did not, simulations were done in his place on the basis of Tax-Calc, which is the FPS Finance calculator. I'll take a first case. An isolated lady welcomes her mother and declares her tax liability. It is always necessary to count the additions to the communes which I estimate to be 8%. The cost for one or two years for this person will be 521.64 euros in additional tax payable. It's not anything especially for a person who helps and supports a parent. As a second case, I took the first case but on the assumption that the woman's mother is disabled. What does the simulations on Tax-Calc show? The bill's gonna be even higher. Can you imagine the situation at this plenary session today, where we will soon be discussing and voting for a revision of the Constitution by introducing an article 22ter to ensure the inclusion of disabled people? In the same plenary session, we will also vote for a tax measure that will penalise those who care for an elderly person with a disability. It's crazy enough! It's a coincidence, but it's pretty amazing as a situation. You can't say it's unconstitutional since it'll be voted before, but it's pretty crazy. Let's go back to the second case. The bill isn't thin. I just told you that if the elderly person cared for is not disabled, the cost is 521 euros. If she is disabled, the cost is 1,264 euros extra tax bill! That's the reality. I understand, Mr.Minister, after all, that you did not want to give such figures because indeed, it is not very popular. I guarantee you that. I come to the third case. A man is married and has three children. He takes care of both of his parents. In this case, what will this additional tax law cost to the couple in question? EUR 1,526. In all three cases, this occurs over one or two years, starting in 2030. That is the reality of your purely technical measure! You will understand that such a proposal cannot be supported. But as I said, she's attached to someone else who has nothing to do with it. That is why we have asked for a separate vote on these two chapters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u131	Mrs Matz, you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u132	Madam President, I will not surprise you by reminding you of our deep opposition to one of the two points raised in this project, the one on family taxation. We have had the opportunity in committee to explain why we are opposed to this point which changes the 65-year-old threshold in order to gradually adapt it to the pension age, when this threshold has nothing to do with the pension age. In particular, I want to point out what the project initiated in 2004 by the then Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders, repeated in his explanatory statement: "The aim of the law is to stimulate the reception of people who are dependent on care". It was therefore absolutely not a question of linking this to the pension age. This project therefore deprives people who would receive persons aged 65 to 67 over the next few years of this tax advantage. This decision is completely unfair to all hospitable people, who will be deprived of tax advantages, and inappropriate, as it may encourage families to place their loved ones in retirement homes, which is a more costly solution for the community and often less responsive to the emotional needs of the elderly and their families. The high age or health status of older persons often does not allow them to live independently. For many, however, the cost of retirement homes is an obstacle. Often, their pension is not sufficient to cover the costs claimed. No doubt, your project did not generate a wide-ranging shielding. In our view, it is due to the fact that its consequences will only be felt in a few years' time. Nevertheless, this is really a step in the wrong direction. It removes an incentive for families wishing to accommodate an elderly parent, while this type of care has multiple human and budgetary benefits. Rather than reducing incentives, they should be strengthened. This is the dynamic desired by our group, especially when we intend to improve the status of close caregivers. Yes, for us, the solidarity of loved ones is a value that must be promoted and strengthened because it has a strong emotional value when it is desired by all generations of the family. It is not always possible, it is not always desired, but when it is, it must be encouraged. You are doing exactly the opposite here, it is worrying about the direction this government intends to take. Let me conclude by stressing the paradox of our agenda. At a time when the government, supported by all the components of its majority, limits the benefit to those who receive a close caregiver – now in a situation of disability for many of them – by excluding people between the ages of 60 and 67, the same majority is about to enshrine in our Constitution the right to full inclusion in society. On the one hand, their inclusion in their families is less favoured and, on the other, their right to full inclusion is programmed. There is something shocking about this, a form of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will, of course, be voting for this draft law with great enthusiasm, because it is already implementing an important element of the coalition agreement within six months of your entry into office. Mr. Van Hees, would you please note that? This is, of course, an important element in the end of fiscal regulation. After all, it is not explained, especially in times of crisis, to people who pay their taxes neatly that fraudsters, people who haven't reported certain income for years or have parked black capital somewhere, are simply allowed to surface. They only pay a fine and are then exempted from prosecution for offences that are indeed punishable, namely tax fraud If we adopt this bill today, we will actually introduce zero tolerance for tax fraudsters. If someone breaks down a bus booth, they are right to demand zero tolerance. Well, we no longer tolerate people not giving up income or hiding capital on which tax is to be paid. For us, Socialists, the fight against tax fraud is a question of fiscal justice. After all, every part of it is nothing too much. It is true that in the coalition agreement there is a solid chapter devoted to this, consisting of three important elements, a three-stage rocket as I call it. Minister, you are in the process of strengthening the tax administration to step up the fight against tax fraud, in good cooperation with your colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs field. We are eagerly looking forward to your action plan against tax fraud that is now in the breeding room. If you are still looking for inspiration, I would advise you to read my opinion papers. You can also look at the coalition agreement because it seems to be identical. Mr Vermeersch, I would like to receive your compliments on a third occasion. You have said a number of times in committee that the chapter on taxation from the Vivaldi coalition agreement is a decisive factor in everything that I have, in all modesty, ever laid down in a number of documents of opinion. However, you will be asking for the Rule-by-Rule vote because you blame us for not having received the party programme of the sp.a in its entirety, to the last decimal place, in the coalition agreement. We may not have succeeded, but you have never managed to make a coherent speech in this House, Mr Vermeersch. The second stage is more transparency. With my bill that was just discussed, I tried to push a small pebble into the river, Minister. Every bit helps. Mr Van Hees, we have already adopted an important draft law on this matter a few months ago, which allows the tax authorities to access the balances on domestic accounts with the National Bank when there are indications of fraud. This is a clear step forward in terms of transparency. Today we approve the third stage, an important stage, namely the cessation of tax regularisations. It's over buying off punishments. Those who do not do their part will be tracked down, severely fined and prosecuted. That is a question of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u134	I have indeed said that you are in charge of fiscal policy. You've just outlined it, your three-stage missile is fully executed. That's the point I'm making. On the other point, we must be honest; I must agree with Mr Van Hees. He sketched it, too. They give this the best title of family tax. It's all a bit pulled by the hair, to make it all digestible. That is the reality. However, your three-stage missile is one-on-one the program of this government. I can only congratulate you on that. Citizens should also be aware that the PS and sp.a in this country determine fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u135	Mr. Vandenbroucke, you called me. You mentioned my name several times in your speech, but each time on the end of the tax amnesty, when I made it clear that this chapter was fully supported. So I don't know why you're looking for a contradiction with me on the part that we support. On the other hand, on the side that is not supported, i.e. a tax increase for those who care for the elderly, you say nothing, whereas that is where I do not agree. I thought you were going to question me about the chapter I don't agree with, the one that increases people's taxes. But no, you're not saying anything, as if it didn't exist in this bill. I didn't understand why you called me that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u136	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u137	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1736/07) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1736/7) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The discussion of the articles is closed. The discussion of the articles is closed. At the request of two political groups, an article-by-article vote on Articles 1 to 6 will be held at a later stage. This before the vote on the whole. At the request of two political groups, an article-by-article vote on Rules 1 to 6 will take place later. This was before the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u138	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Dillen, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u139	Madam President, I see Minister Van Quickenborne is not here. He's probably not gonna think it's important enough. (...): He's waiting...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u140	If he's waiting, maybe we should let him know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u141	The minister's in the building. We'll send for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u142	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I could actually tell a story. Once upon a time, there was the law on external legal status, and it regulated the execution of the sentence. That law was adopted in May 2006. I wasn't here at the time, but some of you have. It would enter into force on 1 July 2008, but that entry into force did not go so well. Of course, that was not so obvious either: the installation of criminal enforcement courts also requires some adjustments in the field. The provisions for the execution of penalties of less than three years have not even entered into force at all; implementation has already been postponed nine times. The result is that the Minister remains competent and that the sentence for the sentences of less than three years is so short that it is not actually regulated by letters of conversion. De facto the execution of the sentence is actually being undermined and there is a certain impunity for the short sentences, because a three-year sentence is automatically converted into an electronic surveillance of about eight months and even that dares to vary. A sentence of four months is not even carried out at all; one can almost speak of remission of punishment. However, there was light at the end of the tunnel. In the previous legislature, there was a bill from Mrs Van Cauter to make a number of adjustments. The law dates back to 2006, so something could be changed and improved. Indeed, it would have been enough; with that proposal the short sentences, i.e. penalties of less than three years, would finally be implemented. This was the title of Mrs Van Cauter's communication at the time: "Jail sentences for the recently convicted are now also being effectively implemented." We fully agreed with that, Minister. That proposal was adopted in April 2019, about two years ago. A margin was built in at the time, because we realized that the criminal court had to adapt to it, because it became competent to do so. The text would normally enter into force in October 2020. So there was a good transitional period for the site so that the implementation of the short sentences would be possible, because of course we have to admit that we need additional capacity for it. But when the second part of my story began here, the coronapandemic came and it was decided to empty all the prisons by means of measures such as the extension of penitentiary leave, the suspension of execution of urgent sentences and the interruption of sentences. The doors of the WZCs closed, those of the prisons opened for a big piece. We could understand that at the beginning of the crisis, because we did not know what was coming to us, especially in view of the overcrowding in prisons, but security remains a central task of the government. As if that weren't enough, there was a new law on July 31st. The entry into force in October would not be possible; the short sentences of less than three years would certainly not be implemented, as the prisons were being emptied. So the entry into force was postponed. In committee, you said that I agreed with you at the time, Minister. That's right. However, you forgot to mention that the law contained all kinds of provisions and we said 'no' to the provision on punishment and voted against it. We understood that. You did open the prison doors and released long-term punishments. We could still understand that if you had to postpone this in July, you would have to release long-term punishments for letting short-term punishments in. But, Minister, I have repeatedly asked you to prepare yourself when the entry into force shifted from 1 October to 1 April, so that next year would not be an April joke. You were supposed to be ready, but apparently you're not. I have always feared that the entry into force would be postponed again. Although it had been adapted and prepared in the field, the draft law is once again before it is intended not to bring the provisions into force, but to postpone them again, now to December. Minister, sometimes the barrel is full. This time the barrel is full. This is the delay too much for us. The law is 15 years old. It's the tenth time now. One cannot, on the one hand, demand, as happened earlier, that certain forms of violence are rightly punished more severely, or are outraged by the fact that rapists should not be in jail, whatever happens here, or advocate that justice should be more criminal and that any sentence, however small, should be implemented, as you write in your policy paper, and, on the other hand, decide that the entry into force of a law which aims to ensure that short sentences are effectively implemented, and that a proposal by Open Vld. Fifteen years after these provisions were introduced, the provisions still cannot enter into force. That's a double standard. Moreover, the corona-excuus, frankly, no longer applies; I will also explain to you why. Last week we celebrated the birthday of the corona crisis in this country. Celebrating is, of course, a wrong word. The government has therefore had a year to look for alternatives rather than simply postpone them. Minister, I heard you earlier when you told me what kind of crack you are. You have even been able to solve investigations that have been going on for two and a half years, at a time when you were not yet a minister, in a few months. Since you are such a crack and you can put that plume on your hat, I would have expected that you would have been prepared and would have found a solution for the law to come into force. What will happen now, Minister? Hopefully we all get that shot soon, the execution of the sentence can find its normal momentum again and its interruptions are no longer necessary. Hopefully the execution of the sentence will no longer be suspended and everything will be able to work again. In this case, however, the prisons are normally filled again. In addition, in December 2021, the law will enter into force with the execution of the penalties of less than three years. So, Minister, you will have to be a crack in the coming months to solve all this. Both problems will come together. I am counting on you, Minister, because an eleventh postponement would have been completely out of control. If you want to be the crack you claim to be in the past few days, you have the chance to prove that again. If you succeed, Minister, I will personally come and put my hat on your hat. In that case, you have worked well. You can hold me to that. That'll be a plume you've earned. The fact that you are postponing entry into force is, however, a missed opportunity. It's a double standard and it's not correct. You will therefore not be surprised that we will not therefore approve the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u143	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group, I would like to support this. It is getting really annoying that the corona crisis becomes the alpha and omega to make unintended changes, ask for delay, postpone files or postpone measures. That is what is happening with the bill before us. Once again, a law dating back to 2006, almost 15 years ago, is being postponed. That is not for the first time, but for the tenth time it could be understood, not for the second time. Corona, all well and good, but that was no reason why this was postponed last time, with the exception of last year. In 2009, 2012, 2013, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 1 October 2019 there was absolutely no corona I am also honest, Minister. You weren't the Minister of Justice at the time. So it is not your real responsibility, but the responsibility of all your predecessors. Some of these parties are also in your Vivaldi government today. In July, there was a delay until 1 April 2021. You are now asking for a further postponement until 1 December 2021. Once again, I can still understand the delay you are asking for today, given the situation in a number of prisons. There would be a serious problem in a number of prisons, but that is a debate for next week. Mr. Secretary, how many times are you going to ask for a postponement? I have read the committee's report very carefully. We have not been given any guarantee that this will now be the final delay. After all, you have left open the possibility of a further postponement, not only because of corona or another pandemic, because then we would have to understand that, no, there could also be a further delay in December. Minister, our group cannot agree to that at all. Whatever these other totally unexpected things may be, this cannot and should not be a reason for a further delay in December. In the meantime, you have had more than enough time to make every effort to bring this law into force after almost 15 years. Total unexpected events should not be an excuse for a delay in December. The impact of this law on the prison population will be great. In committee, you spoke of an increase of 422 people. This was only about persons convicted on the basis of the number of prison sentences between four months and three years, automatically awarded electronic surveillance. Those figures date from 2019 and are therefore not yet the most recent, from 2020. However, you have no figures on the number of sentences of less than four months. That too will have an impact. Mr Minister, no one disputes that there will be an impact. That was actually known in 2006. The previous governments have waited far too long to expand capacity, which will only increase the overpopulation. You must continue to work on this very urgently. Whether we are talking about prisons alone or transition homes and detention homes is a completely different debate that we should also dare to have in committee. It is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done. Both you, the Minister of Justice, and the Member responsible for the Buildings Control, must now join forces and take additional initiatives as soon as possible to address the need to increase capacity in the event of a high degree of urgency. Waiting is definitely not an option anymore. Another problem that we must not underestimate is the problem of finding sufficient magistrates and clerks. We have had this discussion a number of times, both in plenary and in committee. I won't repeat it here. You said quite literally, I quote from the report of the committee session: 'I realize that the search will not be evident, but that it will continue steadily'. Minister, I hope that this will not be too steady, but that you will step up your efforts to ensure that a shortage of staff in December will not be a reason to ask for a further postponement. This cannot possibly fall under the so-called totally unexpected circumstances. After all, you know very well, together with us, that this is a serious problem which must be tackled as a matter of priority. One final question for clarification. During the discussion in committee, you stated that I quote you again 'to cope with this increase, the scheme will only be applied to new enforceable penalties'. I would like a little more explanation on this. What do you mean by that in concrete terms? How am I supposed to understand that? Are only penalties handed down after 21 December 2021 eligible? I don't think this should be the intention. Escape the punishments other than the dance? Once again, it is true that, in 2006, a gradual entry into force of the law was chosen, but, in the context of combating impunity and a rigorous judicial policy, it should not be intended to be limited to the new enforceable penalties after 21 December 2021. I would like to point out that the reason why this law was gradually introduced in 2006 was the fact that penitentiary policy was in need of thorough reform. That was true in 2006, but unfortunately, almost fifteen years later, we have to conclude that a truly fundamental reform has not yet taken place. You do not hear me say that nothing has happened during those 15 years, because that would be absolutely not correct, but to speak now of a thoroughly spectacular reform, that has not happened. So I'd like to get a little more clarity on that. During the discussion in committee, Mr Geens rightly said that it is important to make it clear to practitioners that this is now really the last delay in entry into force. That is necessary, because Mr Geens said this; as former Minister of Justice he can know this for them. It is for them a dog's job to get this done in practice. Once again, I can understand that some of the pandemic forced interventions have an important effect on the influx and outflow of the prisons and on the prison regime, but at the moment we need to be assured that this will be the last postponement. Minister, for all the reasons I have mentioned, including during the committee discussions, our group will not approve this proposal. It should have been done 15 years ago. Corona is one, Minister, but the security of our society is very important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that people are showing some scepticism. If a law had been passed in 2006 and part of that law had not yet entered into force, it would be less sceptical. So I think that's a normal reaction. You're far too kind to me, Mrs. Dillen. You say it's not really my fault, but I even want to take it personally, because I was in that government too. So I'm in charge. That's obvious. I even want to take all that blame on me. I've already taken some and the cart isn't full yet. That is correct of Mrs Dillen, but I would also like to look at you, Mrs De Wit. You say I postponed everything, but have you forgotten the time you were in the government? I know it's annoying, but I'll remind you a few more times. If we take part in the policy, we have a responsibility for that too, Mr Wollants. The consequences must be borne. This law has been postponed several times, in the previous government up to three times: the law of 10 August 2015, the law of 23 November 2015 and the law of 6 July 2017. You're the one who signed off on that one. I have even looked at the reports from the committees and plenary sessions. I have not seen any criticism from the N-VA in that regard. It was postponed. So there is a certain consequence. I understand you're in the opposition now, but we need to make the truth speak. I'm coming to the corona crisis. The impact on our prisons weighs heavily, and I want to be very honest about that. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's First of all, I would like to congratulate the staff working there in very difficult circumstances. The situation in prisons is not easy anyway, but with corona it can become a very dangerous cocktail. I'm referring to two incidents in the last two weeks. The mayor of Namur is present. I salute him. He understands Dutch very well. The situation in Namur's prison was highly explosive. Thanks to the good intervention of the mayor, the security services and civil security on the ground, the situation has been brought under control. The mayor of Hasselt, Steven Vandeput, is not here. It is now in the Flemish Parliament. There were serious problems there too. In total, 730 prisoners tested positive for corona. Today, 185 prisoners are still blocked because of corona. That has an impact on prison, as there is a need to make room. For example, if two prisoners are in a cell and one of them appears to be corona contaminated, then the other one must of course be removed as soon as possible. We need to make room for that prisoner. The same applies to people who enter prison for conviction, because they must be given a place to bridge the quarantine. So there's an impact on our prison system. For this reason, at a time when Minister Geens decided to postpone its entry into force from 1 October to 1 April. The question is now being put to me as to why we are postponing entry into force again. The reality is that the corona impact is even greater at the moment than it was at the time in July. Mrs De Wit, you abstained from the vote on some of the articles, but you voted in favour of the whole. We will not have the discussion again. However, the impact of corona is now greater than in July 2020. Consequently, we must act with caution and responsibility. That is why we want to postpone the entry into force until 1 December 2021. Mrs Dillen's question, whether this will be the last time, is very pertinent. I will therefore be more specific. Mrs Dillen believes that I am looking for a back door to escape, if necessary. In committee, I may have expressed myself a little too carefully, even though that is not my style. That is why I shall clarify it now, in this plenary session, we are here among ourselves. If at that time there is neither a coronapandemic nor another pandemic, nor is there any other calamity, with which I clearly do not mean too little capacity, then we will have the law to implement the short sentences come into force. Mrs De Wit, it is true that I am making a commitment to implement the short sentences as well. In any case, this government wants to implement it, unlike all the previous governments, of which we were also part, just like you, Mrs De Wit. Your party did not do it, however, and we will do it. This entry into force will have a huge impact. According to current figures, 422 prisoners are involved, only when it comes to penalties from four months to three years. However, those sentenced to a prison sentence of less than four months will also have to serve their sentence. That's gonna have a huge impact. The question of how we will deal with this is certainly justified. Firstly, you know that with a letter to the various governors of the country at the end of 2020, we asked for additional capacity to be provided through detention homes. On this question we get positive reactions from responsible mayors, who are willing to house a detention center in their city or municipality. We intend to definitely put a detention house into use in 2021, which we obviously want to do in the years to come. Secondly, thanks to the good work of the predecessors, we have a perspective. I'm not talking about corona, I'm talking about perspective on the opening. The opening of Haren's prison in 2022 will also mean a net increase in capacity, including in Brussels, of almost 200 additional places. Thirdly, there is, of course, also the situation of the entry into force of the law, which will only apply at the time when there is a res judicata. So that will be done step by step. The transitional provisions are very broad. For a long time the prisoners will therefore still be covered by the old regime of the letters, as it will often be a more advantageous system and there should be no stricter punishment according to the rules of the penal law. In certain cases, prisoners will also be given the choice between the system of the conversion letters and the system of the new external legal status. We are, of course, preparing for that. We are well aware of the challenges. Mrs Dillen, we are also in the process of preparing for the implementation of the law. I can tell you that 18 of the twenty-four mandates have already been completed today. This means, in concrete terms, that there is already a considerable amount of work to be done. We will republish the unfilled mandates for the SURB or Criminal Enforcement Court so that we can be fully operational on 1 December 2021. We are also fully engaged in discussing the entry into force with the Communities. After all, you know that it also has an impact on electronic surveillance. You know that. Talks are also ongoing in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can conclude that this is a well-considered decision, which, in all honesty, is corona-related. We have the ambition to bring this new law into force on 1 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u145	Minister, I have received an answer from you as to the penalties that are appropriate for this. To my question about the search for magistrates, you replied that 18 of the twenty-four mandates have been filled. But how am I supposed to see that? Is it a matter of magistrates working in other courts today and switching to this form of execution, or is it a matter of new magistrates? In the first case, you are left with a problem because if they move from another court to the execution, their places there will become vacant, which will give rise to new problems on the ground. Could you clarify that a little bit? You have referred to the deployment of transition homes and detention homes. In this context, I would like to quote what your predecessor and our colleague in committee said: 'It is a good thing that transition homes and detention homes are being used, but their impact on total prison capacity will be negligible for the next 10 years'. Those are the words of Mr Geens. The reason for this is that the old prisons that are now being extinct are doomed to lose capacity regularly. That's just a fact. In other words, I fear that you will continue to have a problem with capacity as long as there is no acceleration, by building new prisons or modernising existing prisons. If you really want to achieve an effective implementation of all the penalties, something that our group can only support, then there really must be an answer to the capacity problem. I am really concerned about Mr None's warning. I'm finishing up, Minister. You were right just now to applaud Operation Sky. Whether this is the merit of the current Justice and Home Affairs Ministers is another story. It is the result of the years of efforts of the Federal Office and the FGP International Cooperation. If, however, we have a few more major judicial operations, we do not yet have a clear picture of how many people have been detained and, above all, of the number of people whose arrest will be confirmed by the Council Chamber tomorrow and Monday, then we will have very serious problems in terms of capacity. That is why I continue to urge you to do your utmost to respond as soon as possible to the problem of capacity, a problem that has been going on for a very long time. The security of society requires that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u146	Mr. Secretary, a brief reply. I know that Corona is not evident in prisons, but we are a year later, a year in which cracks like you could have found other solutions, such as renting prisons or whatever. You will be happy to look in old reports at what we have or have not approved. I'll let you do that. I don't have to hide. We have indeed been collegial in the Swedish coalition. When former Justice Minister Koen Geens said that it was not yet possible and that it had to be postponed, we were collegial. A collegiality that I have not heard from you a moment ago with regard to your former colleague Jan Jambon. You throw that at me here, but you were also in the government when Jan Jambon was Minister of the Interior. So what you just said was totally inappropriate. You should have thought about that and shown that collegiality and not just refer to the Swedish coalition when it suits you. Finally, in 2019, that is all that matters. We supported former colleague Van Cauter because we fully supported the incorporation of that law. That is the key point. You can look at all the reports, but also look at the committee reports and you will see that we have repeatedly said that this was important. However, you cannot only refer to the Swedish Government when it happens to suit you, because it fits in with your talk to put on someone else's dress. If you want to take responsibility for a previous government, which you were a part of, you cannot just choose the theme that suits you well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u147	I would like to have the political debate, but Mrs Dillen has asked another question about the magistrates. Just so we're clear, it's about new magistrates and new tasks. We are effectively looking for new SURB magistrates. That's been well thought out. Prior to the 2019 law, the Public Prosecutor's Office made the distribution. For your information, it concerns 3 new SURB Magistrates in Antwerp. All three vacancies have already been filled. In Brussels it is about 1 SURB-magistraat on the Dutch-speaking side and 2 on the French-speaking side. In Ghent there are 3 places, of which 2 have already been filled out. In Liège it's about two places. In Mons, it's about one place. Then there are the substitutes. 3 in Antwerp, 1 Dutch and 2 French speakers in Brussels, 3 in Ghent, 2 in Liège and 1 in Mons. A number of places have been filled out, some not yet. I just said that. We will republish the vacancies, with the intention of getting enough candidates by 1 December. I hope that this will be an answer to your first question. The second question concerns Mr Geens. Ten years. Of course, if you ever want to transition from classical prisons to transition homes and detention homes, so more human-made smaller compounds, which should be the ultimate goal, that will take a long time. That's what he said, and I'll admit it. What we are not doing is already closing functional prisons, except those for which it is planned, and only then will they be able to provide for the capacity when there are new transition homes. We will do so much more gradually. In this way we will be able to provide an answer on capacity. I know, like you, that the problem of prison overcrowding has existed for a long time. That overcrowding in the prisons already existed in Jean Gol's time. There is often reference to Jean Gol. Mrs De Wit has just done so in an oral question. Jean Gol was the model of Justice in the 1980s. I was 12 years old then. I don't know how old you were. I can't ask you that. But even then, there was overpopulation. I've never known otherwise in this country. It will indeed be an art to solve that problem, but with the elements I have put forward, I think we can be moderately positive about this. It will be very hard work to get that done, but that is what we are going to do with the Justice Department. For nothing more, and for nothing less.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u148	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u149	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1796/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1796/3) The title in French has been amended by the commission into "Bill postponing the entry into force of the provisions relating to the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for custodial sentences of three years or less". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill postponing the entry into force of provisions relating to the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for custodial sentences of three years or less". The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-11-definitief-55-plenair-ip091x.u150	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 March 2021 at 7.55 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, March 11, 2021 at 7.55 p.m.
