ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the question I am asking you today concerns a request made in Fedasil by the CPAS of my commune in Flemalle where I am the first alderman. The CPAS is planning to renovate a building to provide it with an additional Local Hospitality Initiative (LBI) assignment later this year. In order to finance part of the work, the CPAS would like to use part of the subsidy surplus collected as part of the financing of these ALAs, in accordance with instructions received on February 28, 2018, and mentioning the possibility for CPAS to retain 10% of the surplus grant in reserve. Today, Fedasil informed the CPAS that the use of the reserves could not be granted to any CPAS since the royal decree which was intended to allow the implementation of these instructions would not have yet been approved. Mr Secretary of State, is it envisaged to approve this royal decree? Will a transitional provision be created for all CPAS so that they can use part of the subsidy since the mail received in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u2	Mrs. Thémont, I want to apologize for my delay of a few minutes. I'm still trying to be a military punctuality, but I don't know if I have the strength to be a military. So here I am! To answer your question, the reserve file is not unknown to me and certainly deserves my attention. It seems clear to me that the current situation creates too much uncertainty, both for you in Flemalle and for other municipalities that face the same problem. As I made clear in my policy statement, I attach great importance to Local Hosting Initiatives (LSI) and wish to strengthen them in the years to come. I have already made this point several times, and I would like to say it again, because it is really an important part of my policy. As you also indicate in your question, a royal decree must be adopted for the use of reserves. With my services, I am currently examining this issue in depth. I will take the necessary steps in the coming months to clarify the problem of reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u3	Mr. Mahdi, you're forgiven for your delay. It's a little piece of shit. Thank you for your answer. You tell me a few months, but I hope it will be as soon as possible. I think the situation needs to be clarified. I also think that it would be appropriate, however, to send a letter to the various CPAS informing them that you are going to take steps. I can relay your answer to mine but I think Flemalle's CPAS is not the only one who is in this uncertainty. As you said, you attach some importance to ILAs. Communication is important. You say in the coming months, but I don't know what deadline it is: a month, two months, three months, six months? This may continue and they have been waiting since 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u4	Mr Segers, the services have informed me that the technical problems have been solved, which means that, when referring to the text of the question submitted, the text will be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u5	Mr Segers, it is true that the first reception phase for unaccompanied minors has been saturated since the summer of 2020, which has to do with an increased influx of these minors, but which is partly due to the sanitary situation. For example, minors should stay in isolation on arrival at the reception centre until the result of their covid test. The reduction and results of the age test are also delayed, also due to the limited testing capacity at hospitals due to covid. Fedasil has already taken several actions to correct that saturation, on various sites. For example, in cooperation with the reception partners, we are working on a flow from the observation and orientation centres to the second reception phase as soon as possible. Additional reception capacity will also be created in the first and second stages. In addition, the Voogdij Service is in the process of optimizing the duration of the age tests. The Voogdij Service is not under my jurisdiction, but we maintain very good contacts and we try to realize a number of things quickly. An oral question has also been tabled, and I believe that you too, on the improvement of structural support for unaccompanied minors in reception centres. Well, that is what we provide for a role for the Voogdij Service. This work, at government level, is already under way. Fedasil will do everything in its power to provide care to any minor who needs it, both during and after office hours. Given the current situation, some vulnerability criteria are currently being used for minors who are notified outside office hours. Only minors who meet those criteria on the basis of their statements or other available information can be accommodated at that time. These are minors who are 15 years of age or younger, girls, suspected victims of trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings or minors who have a medical or psychiatric problem. Of course, every minor can also report to the registration centre during office hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply and for your efforts. I am counting on you to keep an eye on that, and I am sure you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, on February 6, we celebrated the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation. According to the World Health Organization, between 120 and 140 million women have been victims of this practice and 3 million girls, aged 15 or under, continue to be exposed to it every year. In Belgium, the law condemns these practices and also provides for the protection of girls at risk of mutilation by granting them refugee status. This was the case before, but it has come back to me that the practice of asylum policy in Belgium has changed since 2019. Previously, a simplified procedure covered the girl and her mother (sometimes also the father). Now, apparently, refugee status is no longer granted to the mother or father, but only to the little girl. Parents are therefore obliged to appeal to the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers to try to be also recognized as refugees in order to stay with their daughter. Appeals to the Council of State have also been filed. As a result, a climate of legal insecurity has developed for many of these families. The lack of recognition of the international protection status of these parents forces them to resort to lengthy and costly legal and administrative procedures, although they are often already under orders to leave the territory and often with limited financial resources. The Convention relating to the Status of Refugees of 28 July 1951 provides that children are not separated from their parents as part of an asylum policy. Mr Secretary of State, in view of the context, would it be possible to return to the situation that existed until 2019? Or is that already the case? Do you have any additional information to submit? A carte blanche was published on 5 February, notably with the association GAMS (Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilation). I think you have contacts with them as well. How can these decisions be justified? What latest news can you tell us about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Gilson, thank you for your question and for the background of your office, because I am alone in the meeting room with Mr. President. That way, I feel like you're a little closer to us! Like you, I am very concerned about the well-being of these girls and their families. Moreover, I have communicated about this again recently. They are often marked for life. In this spirit, we strive to eliminate the side effects of the current situation. The most important aspects we are working on are the prompt processing of the application for regularization by the Aliens Office, a good follow-up of the cases by the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) and the Office, and the maintenance of the family's reception. Moreover, international rules such as article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights oblige us to protect the family life of the child. Therefore, the application for regularization submitted by his parents will be approved by the Office. It is not for me to give instructions to CGRA and the Foreign Litigation Council, since the assessment of asylum applications is entrusted to these independent bodies. It would therefore not be appropriate for me to intervene in the way in which decisions and situations are judged. In the long run, I would like to make it clear that I am considering creating a right of residence linked to the child's right of residence for these parents. This means a right of residence that is not discretionary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You are absolutely right to point out that you cannot intervene in the work of independent bodies. Having said that, I think it is necessary to think about a regulation, as you mentioned. This is all the more so as the countries in which there is a prevalence of these practices of genital mutilation are known. That is why I think the risk of fraud is very limited. In addition, the countries concerned were themselves trying to combat that phenomenon, through legislation that criminalized mutilation. Nevertheless, practices continue. I invite you to do everything within your power as Secretary of State to ensure that the rights of these girls are guaranteed not only in terms of asylum, but also in terms of psychological well-being, so that they can remain with their parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u10	Because of his absence, questions Nos. 55014209C, 55014314C, 55014315C and 55014360C by Mr. Hervé Rigot are delayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of this year you were able to tell me that the planned asylum centre in Bilzen was soon to be clarified. There were still conversations between the owner and the Red Cross Flanders. Is that clarity now? If so, has the owner informed you that he still wants the property used as an asylum center? If not, when do you expect him to give us an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u12	Mr Raskin, we have a weekly agreement on the dossier, which follows you very closely. I understand that you constantly ask the question, but unfortunately I still cannot give you an answer today. You also know from my previous answer that it is currently up to the owners to decide whether or not they still want to make the property available to Fedasil. The property of those people was destroyed, they ended up in a very poisoned debate, which they never asked for. So I've also been in contact with the family, but not to push them in one direction or the other. The only thing I wanted to do and what seemed to me to be my duty was to try to understand the very difficult situation in which they sit and also to hear in a human way how they deal with it. I therefore understand that they need to take the necessary time to weigh up all aspects, and they need to be given room for this in a very difficult debate and climate. I won't put any pressure on them. I do not think you are asking me to do that either, but I think it is important to emphasise this with regard to all the Members and all those who are listening. I won't pressure them, I want them to be able to make the decision in complete serenity. Having said that, I am confident that the owners will soon give us clarity. I cannot and do not want to have a date on that because I hope that they will be able to make the decision in peace. I hope, above all, that you will agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, it is not a weekly appointment, but rather a monthly one. You're referring to the owner again. I am going back to October for a moment, when you said: "There are still talks between the Red Cross Flanders and the owner about the opening." In December, you said: "In order to decide whether a reception centre can be started there, we are waiting for an analysis of the owner." In January, you said: "We expect to get more clarity from the owner in the coming weeks." Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you could not give me a concrete answer in October, December and perhaps even January, because you wanted to give the family concerned some time and space. I have also gained understanding of this. However, he is already the fourth time you have referred to the owner. I think that is a bit of an easy solution. You say you hope that everything there will calm down or stay calm. Well, we need clarity in order for the rest to return completely. You are placing yourself in the market as a hip and young Secretary of State, who will pursue a decisive policy, but in reality I see something else. I did not say this in October and not in December and January, but I say it now: in reality, I see a terrified man avoiding his responsibility. You have already opened the umbrella for the fourth time and you are referring to others. I think you should make a decision now. You're the Secretary of State. You're in the spotlight. You will be received everywhere with the necessary respect. I do not think it is fair that you continue to refer to others. Nor do I think it is brave that after so many months you stick your head in the sand. Mr Secretary of State, after all this time, I ask you to take responsibility, to make a decision and to draw a line under the file, which does not get off the ground. Please take your responsibilities slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u14	Mr President, when I am addressed as a young and hip man, I must, of course, invoke a personal fact. I already have so much gray hair that I take it as a compliment that I am still young and hip. I'm trying to do my best. Mr Raskin, I understand your question and concern and the pressure you are putting on it. It is the pressure of the past few months in that file, which makes it very difficult for some people today to cut knots. I'm not looking to be young and hip, but I'm looking for peace in files that have been missing very much over the past few months. My task as a politician means to me that I will talk to those involved, listen to them, give them the opportunity to make a decision and ensure that all the actors involved can and can play their part in it. That's how I want to be a politician in life. We can have a different opinion on this. You may take the view that I must make the decision myself and make the decision myself. In this very human and very tragic story, where a house was on fire and a lot of parameters are taken into account, it is only natural that I try not to be young, hip, cool and especially chilly, but that I try to offer a listening ear. Yes, I would like to be able to clarify this matter as quickly as possible, but only with the greatest respect for the people who are the biggest victims in this story today, and those are the people I heard last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you wish to bring peace. You also understand that I want clarity. So we're not really facing each other. I understand that you have taken the time to give room, but if, after four months, you tell me again that it is the owners, who will give an answer in the coming weeks, you will understand that it makes me nervous, especially since you said that to me in October. Once again, yes, after all this time, I think you should make a decision. You must take political responsibility for this. Everyone in Bilzen, including your mayor, says what I have been saying for months, namely that it was a bad file from the beginning and that the asylum centre should not be there. That's not Wouter Raskin, that's not the N-VA, that says that, that's also the CD&V mayor. I think you should now take your political responsibility and make a decision. That doesn't mean you're cold or inhuman. That has to do with political courage. I wish you every success, Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u16	The next item is normally Question No 55014227C by Mrs Van Camp. Mrs Van Camp, we hear you, but the volume is very still.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u17	Mr President, I have informed the committee secretariat that I am currently attending another meeting, which will allow me to join the Committee on the Interior later. I was confirmed that my questions could be dealt with as late as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u18	Mrs Van Camp, we are trying to take that into account and we will raise your questions later today. However, I find it difficult to apply this to aggregate questions without the consent of the co-questioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u19	Mr President, Mr Segers, Mrs Van Camp, as you have both pointed out, I do indeed wish to invest in return counsellors in order to enable policies to be pursued. The Foreign Affairs Department is about 70 return escorts. There may be internal shifts of suitable staff, which will then be replaced in their current position, but new staff will also be recruited. Selor is asked to start a specific selection, after which the first recruitments will take place. Probably after the summer. Fedasil is primarily concerned with an increase in the number of employees of the outreach team. This team will be phased out. At a later stage, a possible extension at the point of return and in the reception centres will also be considered. This new approach to intensive coaching by DVZ, in the implementation of my upcoming policy, has yet to start. A complete playbook is currently being worked out. The objective of these escorts is to promote voluntary return by focusing on several aspects. People who were ordered to leave the territory will be interviewed. Their situation will be explained to them, but they will also be listened to. Often there are certain obstacles to return. By identifying them and finding a solution to them, we can better prepare those involved for return. This intensive guidance should make it clear that it is also in the interests of those concerned to comply with the return decision and that it is not a solution to stay here without legal residence or by constantly starting up new procedures, which means that an uncertain situation continues to exist. As always in communication with foreigners, interpreters will also be called upon where necessary. The main target groups are families with underage children and individual foreigners staying here at a known address. They will be accompanied by return escorts from a specific cell at Sefor. Moreover, more coaches will also be used in prisons in order to achieve a better result. For this purpose, return escorts will be recruited from the DID service. That's the cell I.D. of locked up in prison. The objective of the outreach at Fedasil is to inform mainly transit migrants and other illegal residents about the accommodation possibilities, the voluntary return programme in Belgium and by referring to emergency care, a return desk or other services. In function of a possible return process, an effective outreach strategy, based on reliable counselling with information on all possibilities, is also an important condition. The reception centres already provide for return guidance, and here too, I will look into how we can improve the return guidance of the residents during their procedure and after a negative decision. As already indicated, Fedasil will first of all use a reinforcement of the outreach. I have also been asked by one of the questioners to give an estimate of the intended result. However, it is impossible to put a number on that already, of course. However, a more intensive approach will be possible and necessary. It should not be forgotten that, although the project is primarily aimed at self-employed and voluntary return, it does not stop afterwards. In the case of a policy of restraint, a stranger must be able to be forced to leave if he does not do so voluntarily. A faster approach, starting with the declaration of a first order to leave the territory, prevents persons from staying illegally in Belgium for several years and building a network, as the integration of children and parents makes it difficult to return. An internal, coordinated approach should ensure rapid follow-up of procedures and service of decisions by guidance staff with explanation, information and awareness raising. So we have to do more than just drop off an A4 and leave it to the foreigners for the rest. That's not gonna get us there. I have rightly heard that remark from all parties in the political spectrum. We are therefore all pleased that we are working on this. DVZ and Fedasil will work together structured for the follow-up of the voluntary return. In this situation, individuals must receive a clear message from all public authorities. At the time of recruitment, a cost of 5,000 euros will be provided for the installation and training of each staff member. The training of escorts at the Foreign Affairs Office will include intensive training on all aspects of foreign law. They are the contact point of DVZ for the foreigner in irregular residence. They must therefore also be able to answer his or her questions. A voluntary return course is also included in the package, given by Fedasil. Another part is a training on communicative skills, especially intercultural communication, convincing people, having difficult conversations and thus also guiding people and translating an A4 into human communication. The outreach consultants at Fedasil will also receive a specific module on microcounseling in addition to a general training of Fedasil in voluntary return. Currently there are 76 return escorts: 6 of them provide guidance to families with underage children at their private address, 9 go into the accommodation units, 11 go to the prisons, 11 work at the return desks and 22 return consultants work at the reception centres. There are 15 reintegration counselors working with our partners IOM and Caritas. There are also 2 consultants at the outreachteam. They will all receive reinforcements to further intensify that guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the impressive answer. When we discussed the policy statement, we were talking about a policy of return. I said at the time that this was an absolute priority for us and asked us to do something about it first, even because it would take a long time to roll it out. That is why I asked you to do so immediately. I'm very glad to see you're so far ahead, it seems to be working out in theory. I look forward to your next steps, and I wish you every success in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, while illegal immigration into Europe fell in its entirety last year as a result of the corona crisis, the number of migrants trying to enter Europe illegally via the African West Coast increased considerably. Last year, more than 20,000 Africans took the trip to the Canary Islands. It is no secret that many illegal immigrants who land on Spanish soil are moving further north. In this context, the European Commission has noted in an analysis that there has been a large gap since 2018 between the number of illegal entry established through the Spanish land and sea borders, on the one hand, and the number of asylum applications, on the other hand. In any case, as you said yourself, there is no great chance of asylum for those concerned, since they are mostly economic refugees. Meanwhile, Spain, with the cooperation of the IOM, would have concluded a readmission agreement with Morocco and Algeria. If we are well informed, you proposed a bilateral agreement last month in a letter to your Spanish counterpart, whereby Spain would lead Moroccan and Tunisian migrants who have been expelled from our country, but who are difficult or unable to be expelled, back to their home country. In this context, I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. Have you already received a reply or had talks with the Spanish authorities on this matter? If so, is the Spanish Government prepared to conclude an agreement on this matter? Would such an agreement cover all illegal North African migrants or only those who have entered our country through Spain? In the meantime, have any commitments been made by Spain to finally curb the illegal transit of migrants from Spain? If so, what are these commitments in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u22	Mr President, Mr Van Camp has also put a question on this, but she has not quoted me quite correctly. I had pointed out at the time that this was an experimental and long-term project, of which everyone who has ever sat on this chair knows that the impact at European level is too slow due to all kinds of practical and legal obstacles. It is not, therefore, something that is suddenly achieved at European level with a fingernip. However, it is the great challenge that we as the European Union face today in the migration pact we are working on. Again, the purpose of the proposal to Spain is to check whether there is more music bilaterally in the concept of return sponsorship. Return sponsorship is also part of the European Commission's proposal to convince countries to strengthen return policies at European level through cooperation between different European Member States. It is one of the ways in which, both in relations with the other Member States and in discussions at European level, I give substance to the pioneering role that Belgium wants to play in the migration debate. We can say a great deal about what Europe is doing, and I also think it could and should be done a little faster, but I am now trying to find a solution by taking initiatives. At European level, we have also discussed the simulation exercise, which we have proposed to speed up the debate on the asylum and migration pact, because it has become an ideological debate where one camp thinks one and the other camp thinks the other. We want to rationalise the debate by holding a debate on the basis of figures. What's it about? How many people are we talking about in concrete terms? If there is a new asylum and migration pact, what impact will it have? The same applies to the return sponsorship or return sponsoring. We can see what Europe is doing, but we can also play a leading role in this area. That is why the question has been put to Spain. To an official response from my Spanish colleague to take the next steps, it is currently waiting, despite the fact that the responses have left an opening in Spain. If Spain's response is positive, I will be negotiating the concrete parameters in the next phase and I will do so immediately. If European Member States are serious about participating in a return sponsorship, they should embrace this proposal and make use of it. This can prove that we can do at European level what we, the Member States, can do far too little today. The European response can be provided here. At the moment when Spain gives me an answer, for which contacts will also be established, there will soon be an EU Council of Ministers, and I hope that we will be able to take the next step. In that case, you can count on me to try to play that leading role and push Europe towards where it should go, namely a European asylum and migration pact that should allow for the development of a return policy and an asylum and migration policy based on responsibility and solidarity of all Member States. We have to see that this is not always the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u23	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The return consoling as one of the sages to achieve your goals, I'm quite happy. I hope that we will soon see the concrete results of this. I will therefore ask further questions about this at the appropriate time. You speak of a leading role in the migration debate. I hope that you can fulfil that role and that, as you yourself say, you will soon push the European Member States in the right direction at the Council. I am still somewhat sceptical, as some of your coalition partners are thinking about a different direction than the direction you intend to take with your statements. I am very much looking forward to rationalising the debate on migration with facts and figures. When I look at the study of the National Bank of Belgium, I am once again skeptical. Those facts and figures remained snowed under press releases with false promises. We, as critical MEPs, of course also keep a close eye on your promises about return rates and procedure times. We will soon be asking questions about this too. I hope that Spain's response will not take too long and that you will put the necessary pressure on it through all the means that Belgium has. After all, we are a country that is democratically and diplomatically above its weight. Certainly at European level, I hope that we can put a little more pressure into getting a quick answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u24	Mr President, Mr D'Etat, the fact that our country needs qualified personnel in the health care sector is constantly recalled both in the field and during the work of the Special Committee Covid-19. If our hospitals now control much better the influx of patients, it must be noted that the hospital staff is out of breath. Both doctors and nurses are morally and physically affected by the pandemic and are still asking for reinforcements. While waiting for a real upgrading of their profession, which has been promised by your government and your colleague, the Minister of Health, one way of relieving them would be to regularize the few dozen people who, according to ICRÉ, are in possession of a diploma of nursing or aide-custody from a foreign country and are awaiting regularization. On 8 December, my colleague François De Smet asked you about the regulation of nurses and caregivers in Belgium. In your reply, you stated that Fedasil was actively studying whether and how foreigners residing in Belgium and with a diploma in the health care sector could be hired. More than two and a half months later, I would like to ask you again about this because, legally, nothing prevents the regularization of these people. Article 9a of the Act of 15 December 1980 permits this on the basis of an exceptional situation. I think we will all agree that the context of the current pandemic corresponds to the definition of "exceptional situation". Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me how many regularisations have been granted on the basis of Article 9a of the Law of 15 December 1980 in 2020? What are the conclusions of Fedasil's study on the regularization of foreigners who are classified as illegal residents? If the results of this study are not yet available, when will this be available? Are you considering meeting the needs of the medical profession through regularizations, taking into account the fact that among those waiting for regularization are persons holding a nursing or nursing degree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your questions. The first answer I'm going to give you is disappointing, but somewhere you could expect it. Indeed, you know that, pursuant to the Rules of the House, I cannot provide you with the statistics in an oral question. Please find the answer to your question on the website of the Aliens Office. On your second question, in November 2020, Fedasil conducted a survey of reception centres for international protection applicants to identify residents with a degree or experience in the health care sector. It was at my request that the necessary steps were taken to see how we could act. The aim of this survey, however, was in no way to envisage the regularisation of the stay of the persons concerned, but only to examine the possibilities of support to the healthcare staff in the context of the crisis of coronavirus. Applicants for international protection may, during the asylum procedure, be employed under conditions or participate in voluntary activities. In both cases, it is not a question of regularisation but of making the persons concerned meaningfully participate in society. Fedasil's analysis has shown that a significant number of residents of the reception facilities – more than 200 people are spoken of throughout the reception network – could provide such support. These are very encouraging results, although for some of these people there may sometimes be obstacles such as knowledge of Dutch or French or lack of a diploma or its equivalence. Participation in the labour market or in voluntary activities is highly encouraged within the structures of the Fedasil host network. In addition, we are also studying the possibility of supporting residents with a profile adapted to vaccination centres. I hope that this can be achieved in the near future. With regard to your last question, as I said to your colleague De Smet in an answer last year, I fully agree with you. In the face of the current health crisis, we are facing unprecedented challenges. However, this health crisis does not make it impossible to follow the legal channels for immigration, i.e. to apply from abroad for a work permit in Belgium. This does not prevent these people from applying for regularisation in Belgium, but I would also like to point out that no substantive legal criteria will be established in the future. My services and I examine each request for humanitarian regularization individually and make a decision within the framework of our discretion. This is important because when we talk about migration and regularization, we always talk about particular cases. Each case is individual and different. Very often, when criteria are introduced, people who have a real need for help sometimes pass between two criteria. Hence the importance of having a human look in this approach and of examining each case individually. One person's migration is not another person's migration. We need to see the human behind the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. As far as statistics are concerned, I will certainly do what is necessary. The fact that the results of this study are encouraging is indeed an excellent thing. There may be obstacles to the regularization or commitment of these people, particularly with regard to language, but this must lead us to work more with the federated entities, in particular with the Ministers of Employment. On the other hand, where I am not following you – and you know that we have tabled a text on this – this is with regard to the determination of the criteria giving rise to regularization in the law. You consider that putting these criteria in place in the law would not allow certain situations to be answered and that this would not, in any case, allow all the specific cases to be answered. On the contrary, I think it would be an opportunity to put an end to a situation that is ultimately arbitrary, while knowing that there is room for discretion as to the determination or correct application of these criteria, i.e. whether or not a person meets these criteria. We have received a whole series of written opinions on our proposed legislation and I have seen that many of the writings are in our view, particularly with regard to so-called essential functions that are in short supply. Moreover, the written opinion of the Brussels Minister of Employment points out that the function of nurse is an essential function which is really in short supply in the Brussels region. This is also the case in the other regions. Personally, I regret the government's lack of openness on this issue. In addition, I must also recall that the law on the reception of asylum seekers requires persons in the course of the proceedings who are working to return 70% of their income to Fedasil today, if they exceed 500 euros. This system must evolve. I have not asked you the question specifically from the point of view of the problem of asylum seekers, but it is always the case that this system must be able to evolve and must also benefit from a certain openness of mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u27	Mr President, I did not expect us to go so fast, but it is probably due to the fact that we have a young and dynamic Secretary of State. I want you to have that compliment. I have never received it in Parliament yet, but who knows? Maybe it'll happen someday. Mr Secretary of State, as you know, because it was one of your wishes, the government agreement provides for an audit of the federal services responsible for asylum and migration, so that they can objectiveise things so that they may have a more serene debate on asylum and migration policies. That's great news! This audit is particularly important in view of some of the criticisms that have accumulated about the functioning of these bodies in recent years. In our view, however, it is crucial that this audit be carried out independently of the audited institutions and thus be given full legitimacy in order to identify possible malfunctions and make relevant recommendations. In addition, several civil society organisations with significant expertise in asylum policy in Belgium have requested to be consulted when writing the terms of reference of the audit. These field organizations are in the first place to see some malfunctions. Their experience is therefore valuable and should not be ignored. Secretary of State, these are my questions. What is the status of the preparation of these audits? Can you already provide us with an indicative timetable? Which actors are involved in the preparation of this audit? How do you intend to guarantee the independence of the actors involved from the institutions audited? Are you planning the participation of specialised organisations such as Myria, ICRÉ or Vluchtelingenwerk in the preparation of the audit terms? If so, in what form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u28	Mr Moutquin, thank you for your question and introduction. To answer your question in the coolest way possible, an external audit of asylum and migration services is explicitly mentioned in the government agreement. It is also one of my priorities. So I'm busy working on it. My answer goes in the same direction as I gave to the question from your colleague Segers, who also pointed out that there were other elements in the government agreement for which we wanted to speed up and, above all, not wait. Similarly, for external audit, we don't lose a second. It is clear that the various institutions and organisations have a great deal of expertise, which is why contacts have already taken place with a view to drawing up the various research questions before starting the audit. For example, federal mediators were consulted. They are often contacted for questions, complaints and suggestions about how services work. A consultation with Myria, which also has a great deal of expertise in this field, is already taking place. The useful input they provide to us will be included in the subsequent development of the audit. In the meantime, a steering group and drafting committee have been set up. They are composed of members of my office and representatives of the various asylum and migration services. They oversee the process of drawing up the specifications and finally the publication of the tender. Work is currently under way on the technical part and the content part of the research questions. The coalition agreement is always taken into account. It is important to know this technical part and the part of the content well in order to have an audit as effective as possible. If we have as wide an audit as possible and we try to answer all the questions, we don't answer any questions. Hence the importance of working in depth with our services and ensuring that we know in a targeted way the questions we want to answer. I wish to present this dossier to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. Spring often brings nice things. I hope he brings these files at the same time. If the Council of Ministers agrees, the invitation to tender may then be issued, after which interested parties may present themselves. I hope I can give you even more information once spring comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I am very pleased to know that you are moving quickly on this essential element in the government agreement. I am also pleased to hear that you have already consulted organizations such as Myria. I believe that the steering group is fundamental to the proper conduct of the audit. But perhaps why not - I do not know if this is the case - allow independent organisations to join this steering group? No one is ever independent, but at least involve organizations that have some expertise in the matter. I believe that you have received, among other things, a very interesting document from lawyers.be or the Ordre des barreaus francophones - I don't remember anymore - on the broad lines and what might be audible in this project. I can only encourage you, if you have not yet received it, to go through it. It contains some really interesting elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u30	Secretary of State, this week the newspaper Le Soir publishes an investigation into the underside of transfers in Belgian football. Particular attention was paid to the transfer of a footballer from a Turkish club to Anderlecht in February 2016. There is indeed a question of a targeted political intervention to facilitate the issuance of a short-stay visa in extreme urgency, enabling the transfer in question to be carried out. This information is disturbing, as such practices undermine citizens' confidence in the impartiality of institutions and can create a sense of injustice and arbitrariness among all those who do not benefit from such a network. I was particularly surprised to read that the person in question was defending himself by explaining that relaying a visa application to Foreign Affairs was a very common procedure." Mr Secretary of State, is this a standard procedure? Do you have figures to objectify the phenomenon? Do you consider such intervention in a visa procedure to be legal, legitimate or timely? What is the attitude of the Aliens Office when it becomes aware of such political interventions? Do you consider it necessary to clarify certain instructions addressed to the Aliens Office to make it clear that these political pressures are unnecessary or even counterproductive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u31	Mr Moutquin, I will prove to you that in politics we can be brief and clear. Like you, I read this article. First of all, I would like to point out that I cannot, of course, comment on the possible practices of my predecessors. I only know that my services examine each application objectively - and that's how we will always do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u32	Indeed, you have been brief, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u33	Secretary of State, this case brings us to a number of questions, which are not intended for you. I am pleased that you object to such requests as much as possible. I wonder myself. For my part, I have a Ugandan friend who is the victim of homophobic violence in his country of origin. Unfortunately, he doesn't play football. Is it possible for me to have him with a short-stay visa if he does not benefit from certain networks? In short, this problem raises more structural questions, which may not fall within your purview. In any case, I will continue to explore this issue in Parliament. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, our committee has recently considered a proposal for a law of the N-VA aimed at incriminating migrants who try to get into trucks to join England. In an opinion given to the commission, Myria, whose expertise is no longer to be demonstrated, criticizes the proposal and the inefficient judge, since the Penal Code already provides sanctions against illegal boarding – which range from fines to a prison sentence – and since since 2016, the mere presence in a port area without authorization is also sanctioned. Myria further notes that the strengthening of sanctions has not had a deterrent effect on attempts to cross. On the contrary, the institution explains that criminalizing migrants, who are also victims of smuggling networks, has a counterproductive effect since, for fear of sanctions, it breaks trust and possible collaboration with the police forces. Secretary of State, the fight against trafficking in human beings is a priority of the government. Like Myria, do you recognize the need to develop a strategy of trust, protection and information for migrants? What tools are in place to foster trust between the police and migrants who fear sanctions? Should not a complaint to the police about trafficking or trafficking in human beings allow the suspension – even temporary – of an order to leave the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u35	Mr Moutquin, I am particularly interested in informing migrants of their rights and options in Belgium. Whether they are migrants or transmigrants, it is known that when people are not well informed, they take risks that they should not take. It is important to be able to inform people well so that they make the right decisions. My office is represented in the interdepartmental coordination unit to combat trafficking and trafficking in human beings, which brings together all relevant actors and coordinates policy. It's Myria who's secretarial. Rather, the question of trust between the police and migrants is addressed to my colleague Minister Verlinden. At my level, in general, the Aliens Office will not make a decision to lock up when an irregular resident files a complaint as a victim. A complaint to the police for trafficking or trafficking is not enough to suspend an order to leave the territory. The person concerned must enter the specific residence procedure for victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings and be accompanied by a specialized centre. In this way, not only is adequate support provided for the person, but cooperation in the judicial investigation is also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The information of migrants is fundamental. Relying on local actors on the ground who know particular realities and contexts can only be beneficial in a bond of trust. I had the opportunity to talk to migrants in transit and was terrified to see how they do not know their rights in Belgium, how much they are victims of lies and manipulations by networks. Information is therefore fundamental. This will lead to a higher number of asylum applications, but Mrs De Block often reminded him in committee: "They only have to apply for asylum". Good information will allow them to apply for asylum. I will ask Mrs. Verlinden about the relationship of trust between police and migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to apologize in advance for the hardness of my question. I hesitated to ask you because I think that politics should not be a show, but I also think that certain things must be said by us, politicians, so that we can affirm a reality as horrible as it is. My intention was not at all to fall into a political speech of pathos but rather to say this horrible reality. It's the MENA, unaccompanied foreign minors, in Libya. On 2 February, the Italian government decided to renew its memorandum of understanding on migration between Italy and Libya for three years without any change. The agreement states that Italy is assisting Libyan maritime authorities in intercepting vessels at sea and returning their passengers to detention centres in Libya. However, the alarming record of the catastrophic situation of migrants in Libya is no longer to be demonstrated. This is reflected in the chilling story of a 16-year-old girl, a recent story collected by a French newspaper. The newspaper explains that the girl arrived in Tripoli in May 2020, during the month of Ramadan. She was locked up in a room and reduced to a sexual slave. Nude, without mattresses or blankets, she was raped every day for three months by men. Then I quote: "They took me to another place where there were more people. There, the Libyans sold us to others and we ended up in prison. One day, a man came to choose me and said that he was going to make me work. He took me home and I stayed there. I don't even know how many men raped me." UNICEF explained that out of a hundred children, fifty claimed to have been raped. The agreement between Italy and Libya has sent 40,000 people back to Libya, exposing them to these horrific sufferings. Mr Secretary of State, what progress has been made in the European discussions on the situation of migrants in Libya? Will Belgium signify its disapproval of Italy with regard to the renewal of this memorandum? What are your contacts with field organizations on site? Are relocations, particularly of minors, envisaged? Does Belgium have diplomatic relations with Libya? Is there a readmission agreement with Libya?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u38	Mr Moutquin, thank you for addressing this important issue at the international level. Belgium must indeed play its part and try to have an impact even if we cannot always do everything we want. I therefore understand that you are asking me about this issue, which some people sometimes lose sight of. Indeed, it deserves to be given importance. There is no doubt that the situation in Libya is extremely serious. Although a new Libyan national unity government took office on 5 February 2021, the European External Action Service recommended extending the mandate of its mission in Libya until 30 June 2023. The extension of the mandate would be a signal of the European Union's commitment to contribute to peace and stability in Libya. EUBAM Libya also aims to contribute to efforts to dismantle organised criminal networks involved in, inter alia, smuggling of migrants, trafficking in human beings and terrorism in the country itself and in the Central Mediterranean region. Follow-up to the discussions on Libya is provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I therefore refer to my colleague Wilmès on the question of diplomatic relations between Belgium and Libya. With regard to your second question, I have a very good working relationship with UNHCR. Last week, I asked for information on the situation of vulnerable refugees in the country. At this stage, there is no relocation from Libya. However, refugees from Libya have been evacuated to Niger and from there they are resettled in the European Union. Belgium does not have a readmission agreement with Libya. Mr Moutquin, I thank you again for your question and for your personal commitment and for this human look and passion which you have shown in this committee and which, too often, are not present in this kind of discussion. You put your heart into it and do it with the best of intentions. If we are not of the same party and our opinions sometimes diverge, I respect your commitment and I draw my hat for the way you work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u39	Thank you, Secretary of State. I was dreaming of the "young and dynamic" compliment, but I would have had something else today. Thank you for those words. You also have my respect even though you know that we do not share the same vision of migration with 100%. I think we can find ourselves on many points, and I am delighted that we can work on issues, either in the majority or in the opposition. I think that the subject of migration must sometimes go beyond our political parties. I also thank you for your answer. It's very difficult. I don't know if you have children or nieces of the age of some of these children. It's a rather complicated subject. Even as a parliamentarian and as a politician, we must not hide from feeling certain emotions at this level. Thank you, though, for your answer. I'll be questioning Mrs. Wilmès soon. Given the catastrophic and dramatic situation, an idea is beginning to circulate in many NGOs: that of a near-air bridge to help these miners. I know that the definition of a minor in international law is below 18 years, but the reality is that the suffering and aggression perpetrated are suffered by much younger children, as is rape. I can only encourage you to take up this issue as much as possible at your European meetings. I think Italy must be told that it would be time to question again its memorandum agreement with Libya until the political situation in Libya is stable. Of course, you know better than I do, behind this question is the question of the European migration pact and of solidarity with the countries directly exposed to the arrival of migrants. But this will be our next case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic391x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament 55014227C, 55014228C and 55014526C 55014551C, 55014552C and 55014553C by Mrs Daems were postponed.
