ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin this afternoon with questions to Minister De Sutter. I would first like to pass on my very best wishes for the new year, hopefully a better year than 2020, a year in which we can go back to the café, do a terrace, physically meet and zoom less. Let's hope this goes smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to express my best wishes for a healthy and hopeful 2021 and for good cooperation in this committee. Madam Secretary, my question concerns the roll-out of 5G. We believe that every citizen and company should be able to use the possibilities of 5G on any device, regardless of where they live or work. So not only in densely populated areas, but everywhere. After fifteen years of mobile telephony and internet there are still places where you cannot easily call or surf. Competition does not work sufficiently in the area of network coverage. In our view, these experiences mean that there is a risk that, among other things, rural areas will be deprived of 5G for many years. We must also pay attention to possible or alleged health risks. It is also important that a full roll-out is carried out, as well as that good communication and awareness pathways are set up to involve, question and inform all residents. The Länder have a very important share in this, supported by the federal government, Sciensano and BIPT and, last but not least, the operators themselves. Madam Minister, will you, together with the BIPT and in consultation with the Länder, organise the 5G auction as soon as possible and begin the roll-out of 5G in the Länder that wish to do so? Will you also create the binding framework by means of a progressive standard, so that mobile internet becomes available everywhere via 5G, including in rural areas or areas where few people live? Finally, will you ask operators to actively inform their customers and all citizens concerned about the plans, possibilities and alleged health effects regarding 5G?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u3	Mr President, Minister, we know that 5G is an important dossier for our country and that urgency must be maintained. There's been some interesting developments. For example, on 17 December in De Tijd we read that Huawei, the Chinese supplier, once again does an ultimate gesture to the Belgian government to eventually get a foothold in our country. The article says that your cabinet has not responded to this for the time being, but perhaps you can now tell us how you are reacting to these developments? Belgium would lack the necessary expertise to fully check the programming code. Is that correct and relevant? What strategy do you pursue with regard to Huawei, not least with regard to our sovereignty and national security? Were you already discussing radiation standards with your Brussels and Walloon colleagues, which are stricter than the standards of the World Health Organisation? How far is the discussion going and is there any agreement with the Communities on the distribution of the proceeds of the auction? What's the status? Can this stand in the way of the auction, which is expected to take place at the end of 2021? Is there a view on the key that will be used yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u4	Thank you for these questions, which are indeed a very important dossier that we are working on very intensely. Mrs Dierick, the government agreement states that in the short term all stakeholders must support the introduction of 5G. Account must be taken of both scientific information and safety aspects, the impact on energy consumption and, of course, the powers of the Länder. Once agreement has been reached on this dossier in the Consultation Committee, the further legislative procedure will take about four months. Normally, the legislation should be published by June 2021. Once that has been done, it will take BIPT another five to six months to prepare the auction practically, according to what has been informed to us. In principle, it will then be at the latest at the beginning of 2022, subject to approval by the Consultation Committee, which should be planned in the coming weeks. If we can do it faster, we'll do it faster. That's pretty obvious. Things need their time. In doing so, the drafts of the new royal decrees provide for fairly strict coverage obligations. The band we use for 5G is the 700 MHz band, which is characterized by good propagation and penetration of the radio waves to provide maximum coverage. This means that after one year the band must have a coverage of 70% of the population. This will be an obligation for 5G. After two years this coverage must be 99,5% and after six years 99,8%. The rights of use shall be granted in the middle of 2022 and shall provide for a coverage of 70 % in the middle of 2023, 99.5% in the middle of 2024 and 99.8% in the middle of 2028 at the latest. That's documented. The ambition is higher than what the European Commission puts first in its Connectivity Strategy on 5G. It wants continuous 5G coverage for urban areas and key transport axes by 2025. So that's what we should be up there. It is also my intention, Mrs Dierick, to work hard on the creation of a knowledge and learning platform in the coming months. This fits in with the objective of creating support. The aim is to provide information to citizens through a Q&A website, through social media campaigns and by highlighting socially relevant use cases, as they are called, i.e. examples in which 5G brings added value to citizens and businesses. This will of course be done with respect for the division of powers and therefore for the role of the Länder, with regard to the health aspects to which you also refer, which is also the concern of some of our population. There will also be actions against fake news. After all, there are quite a few conspiracy theories about 5G that we need to tackle. Finally, an important element throughout the discussion is also monitoring and measuring the radiation itself and the way the antennas are measured. This also has an impact on standards. Of course, that will also happen to the operators, which was one of the questions asked. The guide we will use here is to work as much evidence as possible informed, which means based on facts and scientific research. The operators will, of course, be able to provide us with practical examples so that citizens can see the benefits in real life, which should increase support. Of course, operators have technical knowledge about the measurement methods of radiation. We want everything to be put together in a platform where all the information can be found. We will also try to convince local authorities of the usefulness of 5G. They are responsible for granting the licence to the 5G masts. Without antennas, the 5G roll-out is of course not possible. Cooperation at all levels, not only with the Länder, but also with local authorities, will be needed. In addition to Mrs Verhelst, I come to the question about Huawei. I did wait a while with a reaction. I thought this was the wisest thing to do. As you know, on 22 June 2020, the National Security Council agreed to a series of additional security measures concerning 5G networks in the framework of the application of the EU toolbox on 5G Cybersecurity. This is a very important guide which we must also follow. The BIPT held a public consultation on the texts of the preliminary draft law and royal decree being prepared. We have received contributions from the main stakeholders, including Huawei. We'll analyze them all. I have informed Huawei that my cabinet will certainly speak to them as soon as I can see all the views on the matter. You should know that this public consultation ran until 30 December 2020. I therefore thought it advisable to wait until then to sit down with various companies. After all, Huawei is not the only one who wants to have a conversation or who wants to know where he is. The answers to that question are currently being analysed and I will address their question for a conversation in the coming weeks. You also asked about the programming codes to which Huawei referred whether the analysis of a source code would be a problem. That's important. I read that this is technically quite challenging. I have been informed that this is actually only part of the actions to be taken to monitor physical and technical safety and to ensure the operational integration of equipment into the networks. The security of that supply chain is therefore much wider than just the reliability of the source code. I would point out that cyber security policy falls within the competence of the Prime Minister. As far as the government's position at the moment is concerned, we are not aiming at any particular company, player or country at all. That's not the point. The objective measures contained in the draft law will create a framework for the protection of national security and thus in accordance with the EU toolbox and the advice of the National Security Council. This will be discussed with you here. If we create a framework where different players will be tested, we will set that framework together here. That will not be a decision of the government alone and certainly not of me personally alone. There are already discussions with the various regional ministers, with a number of whom I have already spoken and a number of talks are still planned, and with technical academic experts, because I want to know in particular how these radiation standards are measured. These are measured in a different way in the different regions. That means it's a little apples compared to pears. We need to get a look at that. That needs to be standardized. As you know, these radiation standards do not concern federal jurisdiction. I want to work to increase that support, but that is not, of course, a federal authority. I would also like to say something about the proceeds from the auction. You also know that a possible solution that has been put on the table and that can decouple the file from further organising the auction is to put the proceeds of the auction in a blocked account. This should be specified by the Consultation Committee. We will talk about this in the coming weeks. We will base ourselves on a study commissioned by the BIPT by Capgemini. You may be familiar with that study. It defines a particular fork that could be used. This will be discussed at the Consultative Committee in the coming weeks. Next week, this dossier will be launched in the Council of Ministers. The IKWs have been completed. We are ready to come to Parliament with the draft law after next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u5	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with your answer. You put a very clear and very ambitious timing first and we hope that everything will work. I would urge that there be a legally binding framework for full coverage in Belgium, not only in the busier areas, but also in the rural areas, where very few people live. That is very important to us. I am also pleased that you will make a great deal of efforts to provide the citizens with correct information. Creating support will really be necessary. You say that there is a lot of fake news and it is only by giving correct information, by sensitizing and by being transparent that we can pierce that fake news. That's not just the job of the government. It is good that there will be a knowledge centre, but the operators also have an important role to play in this. That is why I am pleased that you have entered into consultation with them. You are also in consultation with the Länder. In this respect, you have already taken the first steps, within the short time that you are Minister. I thank you for that and wish you every success in the next consultation with the Länder. I hope that we can reach a compromise rather quickly and that the roll-out will begin. I look forward to the next steps, which you will propose to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u6	Thank you for the very clear and good answers. I find that very pleasant. I hear you keep going for speed, but I did feel a little stretch on the deadline to early 2022. We shouldn't let that happen. We still have to respect the deadline. In politics, too soon, there will be a deadline. We can see that things are rolling out faster in Europe. We really shouldn't miss the boat. With regard to acceptance, I once said in committee that there was a roadmap for Poland. Maybe you've been able to see that. Hopefully that helped. The biggest surprise for me was that a smartphone next to the bed is much worse than the radiation of 5G. I don't think the people really realize that. I believe that this message alone can create greater support for the people. I am very pleased that we will be able to look at the results of the comparisons here together. We will be committed to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u7	I'm not taking my cell phone to the bedroom. You could do the same, Mrs Verhelst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u8	Madam Secretary, we recently learned that Proximus wanted to take over Mobile Vikings and JIM Mobile. I have heard from other people who wanted to sign up for it that a considerable price has been paid for it. Anyway, of course, the highest price always makes it. Test Purchase has expressed its concern about this, because if one pays a heavy price, then of course one must also make that investment profitable. The operator's prices could therefore increase. However, it cannot be the intention of a public undertaking to make the consumer pay more in the end. With Scarlet, Proximus already has another virtual operator in the house. These virtual operators work with the existing network, but do not have their own hardware. With this virtual operator they are already trying to offer competitive prices and now we are suddenly going to get three of those virtual operators under one roof. Madam Secretary, can you guarantee that these companies will still be prize fighters? A second question concerns the Competition Authority. When BASE was taken over by Telenet last year, Telenet Mobile Vikings had to sell to get permission to do so. I therefore find it strange that the biggest player today will be even bigger and stronger by taking over the virtual operators Mobile Vikings and JIM Mobile. What does the Competition Authority have to say about this? After all, we must avoid creating a sense of partiality because we are dealing here with a public undertaking. Can you make sure this all works out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u9	Mr President, Mr Freilich, your question is very relevant and you are well informed. I will answer your question in detail, along with all the nuances that allow such an oral explanation, better than, for example, Twitter. Of course, I have my information from Proximus, which I have questioned. With regard to your concerns about possible price increases, we were assured that the acquisition of Mobile Vikings will have no impact on the positioning, organisation or supply of Proximus itself, nor on Scarlet's. We have already read in the press that Proximus has expressed the intention to allow Mobile Vikings to exist as an independent player within the group and that there are therefore no plans to change the pricing for Mobile Vikings customers. Proximus provides us with this information and we will, of course, keep a close eye on it. Proximus has also informed us that the acquisition price was determined on the basis of the current results and business plan of Mobile Vikings, as well as the synergies created by the acquisition. Under no circumstances was a change to Mobile Vikings' pricing policy taken into account. Mobile Vikings and Proximus aren't exactly close competitors either. There is, above all, complementarity. As you may know, Proximus' interest in Mobile Vikings was just aroused because it concerns another target group, a relatively young audience with a totally different use of mobile internet. Proximus is rather aimed at the so-called general public. Mobile Vikings' audience, which is a small player on the market, of 3%, has not changed in the last four years. The sale by Telenet took place in 2016. The market share then stood at 3 % and is still at 3 %. That is, as I said, a different market share. Although this is a different market segment, the Competition Authority will examine whether or not the acquisition can take place properly, as you put it in your second question. That's very clear. It is not up to us, to me or to you, that will be thoroughly investigated, and so it should be. The verdict will be independent, as it should be. When Telenet took over BASE in 2016, because that was actually the first step, Telenet offered to divest and sell the share of Mobile Vikings, which was then at BASE, to Medialaan, so now DPG Media, along with JIM Mobile's customer base. That was the transaction back then. Telenet did so in order to obtain the approval of the European Commission. At the time, the European Commission considered that a new virtual operator, i.e. an MVNO or a mobile operator without its own network, should enter the mobile market in order to compensate for the loss of competition resulting from the disappearance of the then virtual operator Telenet, which had no network of its own. Medialaan has not been able to grow that customer base since 2016. That was 3 % and is still 3 %. Combined with the fact that competition in the telecoms market is mainly driven by fixed-mobile convergence........................................................................................................................................................................................... Without prejudging the investigation of the Competition Authority, I can tell you that the fixed-mobile convergence that we are talking about makes it difficult for purely mobile players to maintain themselves. That's obvious. An independent mobile operator may now disappear, but the number of mobile players on the market with their own network remains the same, namely three. That doesn't change, it's just a shift of that 3 %. The answer is quite technical, but I really want to give you the details. Even though a virtual operator is now disappearing from the market, there is no evidence at this time that Proximus would change the course of Mobile Vikings, aimed at a young audience with competitive prices. Actually, they have no interest in doing that either, that's obvious. By comparison, when Belgacom acquired Scarlet in 2008, there was also a fear that Scarlet would disappear from the market. That didn't happen. This brand has been retained and this market share has been maintained. Scarlet is still on the market with a fairly competitive offer. The last word is for the Competition Authority. It must decide independently whether or not the arguments you have put forward are the right arguments to allow this to happen. We'll wait and see. It is not up to us to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u10	Thank you for your detailed reply, Madam Secretary. We will wait and see what happens. If necessary, we will link back through the committee, not through Twitter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u11	This will end the first questioning session. The question addressed to Secretary of State Michel, question No. Mrs Gilson's 55010975C was converted into a written question. Secretary of State De Bleeker will be here at 4:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, I wish you a good 2021. I referred earlier, during the discussion of your policy statement, to possible government gold-plating. You were very clear on this: you will not do so, but you will transpose directives faster and more timely, which is certainly a good thing. I was therefore very surprised when I heard, during the discussion of his policy statement, that your colleague, Mr Dermagne, described as positive the increase in the guarantee period from two to five years, which is mentioned in a French study. For consumers, it would only mean an additional price of 1 to 3 % of the products. I think that is in stark contrast to what you have said. The Guarantee Directive covers a period of two years. Were you aware of the statements made by your colleague, Mr Dermagne? If so, did you talk to him about that? Currently, 24 or 25 out of 27 Member States apply a two-year guarantee period. If we increase them to, for example, five years, the competitiveness of our companies will be compromised. As the French study to which your colleague referred showed, the extension of the guarantee period would also lead to an increase in consumer prices. Finally, following the transposition of the two-year guarantee period provided for in the directive, will you choose gold-plating and opt for the five-year guarantee period or at least a longer guarantee period than two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my best wishes for 2021. I hope this will be the year in which we will defeat Corona and find fun again in a normal relationship with each other. I am very much looking forward to that, but of course I am also looking forward to good cooperation with all the members of this committee. Last year the new European directive on the guarantee of goods was adopted. It harmonises the guarantee rules to the maximum throughout the EU, with only a few exceptions. One of these exceptions concerns the minimum guarantee period of two years, since Member States are free to apply a longer period. The Protocol on the distribution of powers in the field of consumer protection provided that the Minister of Economy is also responsible for the guarantee legislation and the transposition of the guarantee directives. So Minister Dermagne and I will discuss with the Minister of Justice what is the best approach to the duration of the legal guarantee. There's three of us in charge of that case, and we'll discuss this with each other. At present, most of the Member States have a two-year guarantee period. During the discussions on the revision of the Guarantee Directive, no consensus could be reached on this by the Member States, which re-elected a minimum period of two years. However, some Member States indicated that they wanted a longer period, especially for certain categories of goods with a longer life span, such as building materials, cars and white goods. At this stage of the transposition work, the precise intention of the other Member States to extend the guarantee period for certain other products is not yet known. The possibility of providing a longer warranty period for certain categories that are considered to be sustainable is therefore a slope. However, such a measure will have to be subject to a prior impact analysis. Minister Van Quickenborne and I have already stated that we are absolutely not in favour of gold-plating, but in view of the division of powers, that decision must be taken with three, including the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Justice. Our cabinets have, of course, already discussed this issue extensively, and we will continue to do so. As far as the slope is concerned to look at products with a longer lifespan, I believe that we should rather come up with additional European legislation. It is also in the pipeline, following the Consumer Agenda proposed by Mr Reynders on the repairability of long-life products. However, I would like to stress once again that I am not in favour of gold-plating and so I am in favour of two years of guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. You are talking about the maximum harmonisation that we wanted to achieve at European level. I myself conducted these negotiations from the European Parliament and I can tell you that it was indeed not an obvious matter. Among other things, the United Kingdom had a longer guarantee period. You are quite clear about your position and that of your colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, but also about Mr Dermagne's position. I hope, therefore, that gold plating will not be used. I know that a distinction is indeed made in certain Member States, depending on the product in question. I believe that the Netherlands is in that case. I do not think this is in any way in favour of the consumer. I do not think that the consumer will distinguish between two years on his washing machine and three years on his refrigerator. It is also argued that this distinction should be made according to the brand, because it can be expected that certain brands will last longer than others. I do not think that extending or splitting the two-year guarantee period would be in the consumer's interest, so I hope that you will stand firm and stay with those two years, for the reasons I have just listed. We will continue to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, I will not repeat the whole system of coronavouchers. Consumers had a year to book a new trip. If not, after a year they could request their money back from the tour operators. That year is almost over. It'll be ready in the middle of March. In the meantime, however, there was virtually no way to travel and so many travel companies, which are also healthy companies, are in danger of getting into trouble if they now have to pay back their coronauchers massively. That is why we have launched a proposal to set up a coronavoucher bank, following the example of the Netherlands. This means that these companies can take out a loan from the government to repay their coronavouchers. It's a loan, so it's not a grant. It can be considered, for example, to give businesses five years to repay the loan, which is an advantage for both consumers and consumers. In this way, they will certainly get their money back, as well as for businesses, by not going bankrupt and being given the opportunity to re-enter and generate revenue, once again. What do you think about the proposal to set up a coronavoucher bank? My next question is partly linked to that. If I am correct, the Guarantee Fund for Travel has about EUR 20 million. However, that is absolutely not enough to repay the coronavouchers, because it requires an amount of around EUR 344 million. In your policy statement, you stated that you confirmed this during your discussion that you would soon be working on a revision of the Guarantee Fund. Your predecessor, Minister Muylle, was already working on that. A working group was set up to provide a solution in the short term. That working group met for the first time in September. How many meetings has the working group been held since September 2020? What are the initial findings of the working group? What are the thoughts that lie ahead? Finally, what system of sustainable financing would be on the table for the Guarantee Fund Travel if this were to continue? Are you thinking of a body other than the Guarantee Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u16	Mrs Van Bossuyt, 2021 will indeed determine the survival of many travel organisations, organisers and their insolvency protection. As I explained in previous questions, a working group explores some slopes on the possible solution in the case of the worst case scenario. Together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance, we are currently working hard to get things right. Once this has been finalized, it is only possible to communicate about it. However, I can tell you that intense meetings are taking place. Even today there was a meeting on this subject. Every effort is being made to find a solution to the problem in accordance with European legislation, so that the traveller is not in the cold. However, given the sensitive stock exchange and competition information contained in the file, unfortunately, I cannot tell you much more at this time than that the government is following the issue very closely. The issue was included on the agenda of the most recent ordinary Council of Ministers in 2020. In the short, medium and long term, solutions will be found in a Belgian and European context. We are in constant consultation with various Belgian and European players on the ground, to ensure that it remains possible to travel and organise trips in Belgium while at the same time protecting the consumer. The concept of the voucher bench is indeed one of the slopes that some players put on the table as a partial solution to the problem. At the moment, I cannot comment on whether it will eventually be that piste. However, it may be a solution or partial solution of the whole. The working group on the Guarantee Fund has already met four to five times. We, the government, will fulfill our obligations. We're looking for a solution. You speak of EUR 20 million. In the context of the problem, this amount is indeed insufficient. However, a short-term solution is being considered. As soon as I can give you more information, I will. At the moment, however, I cannot make them entirely available to you because the negotiations are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, you will agree with me that from your answer I have not become much wiser. I understand that as long as the negotiations run, it is difficult to say anything about it, but I hope you will appreciate its urgency. Meanwhile, it's early January. The first questions will be answered in mid-March. I do not have to tell you what this means to a lot of small entrepreneurs. Those people have already had a hard time. It is really important for the travel sector to get perspective and hope that they can continue to exist, if not, I fear the worst. I hope to see action from the government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u18	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I wish you and your loved ones and other colleagues whom I could not yet greet, an excellent year of 2021. In order to distinguish good from bad business and highlight possible false promotions, experts from the Consumer Protection Association Test Achats analysed over 1,000 offers offered by different brands during the Black Friday. Of these, 234 promotions were shelled with as much detail as possible. This shows that, for 30% of promotions, the minimum price used before the offer was found to be lower than the barred price on the promotion. On average, the proposed reduction was 26 per cent, while in fact it was only 8 per cent. Other well-known strategies have again been used by some unscrupulous brands, according to Test-Achats. Some have, for example, displayed the manufacturer's recommended selling price as a barred price next to the Black Friday price, while this recommended price was not used before. A minority of products see their prices rise sharply during the Black Friday compared to the last 30 days, despite a promotion announced. This is obviously only a sample of the fraudulent practices found. Madam Secretary of State, does the Royal Decree determining violations of the Code of Economic Law and its implementing orders for which agents have the competence to approach the company by presenting themselves as customers allow mystery shopping at marketing events such as the Black Friday? If yes, have any tests been performed? Do they come to the same figures as Test-Achats? Has the contact.be site, housed within the Economy FPS, which allows consumers to be directed in defence of their interests, received a significant increase in complaints since the Black Friday? If so, what do you intend to do with it? Finally, have any measures been taken since the Black Friday, particularly for the purchases of the end-of-year holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u19	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I join my colleague in wishing you the best for 2021. I have no doubt that this year will be better than the year we have just lived. I will also address this subject, which covered the chronicle just before the reopening of the shops last December, you remember. In recent years, the Black Friday has become a real phenomenon. We can't miss out, since these are discounts of up to 70%, with a surge of ads in our mailboxes, e-mails or social networks. In addition to the fact that advertising is omnipresent, Black Friday has also become synonymous with scams, particularly with regard to price falsification. Some stores increase their prices sharply and then lower them. But scams also concern, for example, insufficient stocks, false delivery times and even the absence of delivery. Madam Secretary of State, last year 21 reports were received from the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy. Almost two months after the Black Friday 2020, do you have this year's fraud figures? At the time of the previous Black Friday, half of the online controlled shops did not comply with the rules, particularly with regard to price falsification, 16 of the 30 websites controlled by the SPF Economy. However, there were only 58 reports in this area. In view of the figures that are also intended elsewhere, should we not widen and intensify the controls directly carried out by the SPF Economy in this direction? This would allow us to know exactly where we are going, and above all to avoid all those scams that damage our local businesses that respect the rules, and of course consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u20	Earlier this year, the FPS Economy Information Point reviewed the number of cases of internet fraud in 2019. The number of notifications increased by 29 % in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was most pronounced among individuals. The five most common complaints were fraudulent practices, unsolicited advertising, unsupplied goods or services, data protection infringement and unsolicited delivery of goods or services. In the run-up to Black Friday, at the end of November, which was completely online because of Corona this year, consumers were warned to be extra careful when buying online. Madam Secretary of State, would I have liked to know if in the weeks after Black Friday, which was more of a Black Week, more complaints were received about Internet fraud than in the previous months? How large was the increase in the number of complaints? Which complaints were mainly concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u21	Thank you all three for the questions. Since 30 November 2020, Article XV.3, 9° of the Code of Economic Law provides for the power of control agents of the Economic Inspection to carry out test purchases, including, if necessary, using a fictitious identity. In doing so, they may approach companies by pretending to be customers or potential customers, without having to disclose their capacity and the fact that the findings made on that occasion can be used for the purposes of supervision. However, that power can only be exercised where it is necessary for the exercise of supervision to determine the real circumstances applicable to ordinary customers or potential customers. For investigations concerning misleading price reductions, it has not yet become necessary for control agents to make use of the mystery shopping competence, since they can determine the reference prices, or the crossed-out prices, and the promotion prices without using other less significant powers, e.g. by consulting the company's webshop and requesting price history from the company. In this way, in 2019 and this year too, the Economic Inspectorate proactively checked thirty webshops and also launched investigations based on notifications. In 2019, ten minutes were prepared and four requests for action were sent to foreign authorities. It should not be premature to conclude that a company uses misleading price reductions. This will always require a thorough examination by the Economic Inspectorate. If a company reduces the price of a product for a few days, it does not in all cases affect the reference price indicated by a subsequent price reduction, which is applied some time later. In such cases, there may be no misleading price reduction, while consumers may feel misled. For the time being, 35 Black Friday 2020 notifications were submitted to the hotline, compared to the 21 notifications submitted last year. Since Black Friday/Cyber Monday took place in the period from 27 to 30 November 2020, it is in any case too early to assess the extent of the increase in the number of notifications. In December or January, consumers may submit a report on misleading price reductions to Black Friday promotions. We have to wait until all the reports come in. That period shall end at the end of January. Then we can draw a conclusion. The Economic Inspectorate conducts year-round checks and not just during Black Friday, Cyber Monday or summer and winter sales. Consumers must be vigilant. Prior to Black Friday, the SPF Economy released a press release and spoke through social media to raise consumer awareness about misleading price reductions. As Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, I have also launched press releases and campaigns on social networks to raise consumer awareness in this area. The consumer must be able to base his purchasing decision by being properly informed. First of all, this implies that price reductions cannot be misleading. The communication on these reductions must be clear. The consumer must know what property is benefiting from what reduction and, where appropriate, the conditions that apply in order to benefit from it. The seller cannot refer to a recommended price or to a price charged by a competitor. Secondly, it must be a real price reduction. In other words, this reduction must relate to a price previously charged for a certain period of time by the same sales channel. Therefore, the price cannot have been increased artificially in advance to allow for a larger or non-existent price reduction to be announced in relation to the usual price. Moreover, the price reduction cannot be permanent, otherwise it becomes the normal price. Finally, price reductions cannot lead to a sale at a loss. Without a period of pay or in the event of a sale for liquidation, the sale at a loss is prohibited. I decide. The data you requested in connection with this Black Friday and the entire year 2020 are not yet available. Once the Economic Inspectorate has mapped out all the statistical data, I will not fail to disseminate that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u22	Thank you for your answer, which is a snapshot of the situation. Although I understand that the data on the last Black Friday is not available, I have also heard your willingness to work hard on this issue. Unfortunately, these are practices that are repeated each year on the occasion of year-end promotions or sales. This situation is obviously damaging for consumers as well as for traders who scrupulously respect the rules and apply real balances to the benefit of consumers. I heard that ten minutes had been drawn up in 2019, which is obviously too little compared to the figures provided by Test-Achats. Therefore, I can only encourage you to really focus on this phenomenon which has been targeted by Test-Achats and which requires a firmer intervention in order to punish the unscrupulous signs that engage in such fraudulent practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u23	Mr President, I agree with what my colleague has said. We are really faced with a phenomenon of a magnitude, as I said in my question, quite extraordinary since we can no longer miss out on this promotion which is everywhere. It is obvious that the consumer is being misled. In view of the figures we have, even if the latter have not yet come out, which I fully understand, the sanction is completely disproportionate in the wrong direction in relation to the scam and problems for the consumer but also for our businesses, often small businesses that do not have the means to fight at all. It is the pot of ground against the iron pot in front of large international groups that have no scruples and that cannot be easily pursued. Madam Secretary of State, therefore, I really invite you to step up these controls and communication to make consumers more aware of the risks they are taking to buy wrongly and through and to be completely bewitched by promises of winnings and promotions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, I will be very brief. The figures I asked for are not yet available. I understand that, but I would very much like to receive them as soon as they are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, just before last summer's months, Test-Achats launched an online form on its website that allowed travellers to report travel problems in the context of the coronavirus crisis. The objective of this initiative was to consolidate similar complaints for faster processing. A total of 6,400 cases were registered. We know it's a gray figure that doesn't reflect reality. There are obviously many more files than the 6,400 that were registered on the Test-Achats website. At the beginning of October 2020, Test-Achats announced that it had treated 5,000. Unfortunately, since 15 October, it is no longer possible to participate in the collective action initiated by the consumer protection association. However, many refund files opened with the airlines are still pending, while many flights continue to be cancelled, with repayment times exceeding five to six months for some. Madam Secretary of State, is there a monitoring of the situation within the FPS Economy or the FPS Mobility? What figures are available? I'm talking about complaints, open files, companies being called in, etc. What about the contact.be website? Are there regular contacts with airlines and travel agencies? Are any measures planned in this regard? I am thinking in particular of information campaigns aimed at the general public concerning their rights. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u26	Mr. Speaker, first of all, I wish everyone a good year, all the employees of the House and the cabinets. Madam Secretary of State, as my colleague has said, many flights have been cancelled because of the coronavirus crisis. Brussels Airlines had therefore announced that it would reimburse the tickets for these flights. Customers were also notified that repayments would be completed by the end of October. However, I am reminded that many customers have not yet been reimbursed for flights cancelled sometimes in March, more than nine months later. In addition, when customers call the Brussels Airlines Help Desk, no one is able to give them the date on which they will be reimbursed. I wanted to check, as my colleague Mr Patrick Prévot did, and to see the extent of the problem. He told you about the number of people who faced this problem. Clearly, in terms of consumer protection, it is not admissible that after eight or nine months customers are still waiting for the refund, that they have not had any news, while they have sometimes paid several hundred EUR. Brussels Airlines customers therefore feel very poor. Madam Secretary of State, can you inform us about the number of refunds already made and the number of refunds still to be made by Brussels Airlines? How many refunds does the company make per day or per week? In other words, can you get and tell me about the progress of these refunds? Can you also, in the interests of consumer protection, put pressure on the company to speed up repayments and to make it more transparent to its customers?Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u27	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, the FPS Economy point of contact has received over 1,000 reports of airline tickets. Approximately 80% of these alerts were introduced in June. Since then, the point of contact has seen a drastic decrease in the number of alerts. Most of the reports received concerned travellers who, following the cancellation of their air ticket, had not yet received a refund or had received a voucher instead of a refund. Air passenger rights are governed by European Regulation 261/2004. According to this regulation, in the event of cancellation by the airline, passengers have the choice between a refund within seven days or an alternative flight as soon as possible and under comparable conditions of transport. In certain circumstances, the traveller may also be entitled to additional compensation. The airline that cancels a flight is required to inform the passengers concerned of their rights, in writing. This matter falls within the competence of the Minister of Mobility. Mr Prévot, as regards your second and third questions, I would therefore refer you to my colleague Mr Gilkinet. The same applies to your questions, Mr. Vicar. The responsibility for package travel lies with my colleague Dermagne and myself and with my colleague Gilkinet, who is responsible for air travel. If complaints reach us via the FPS Economy contact point regarding airline tickets, we send them to Minister Gilkinet, who deals with them. So you have to ask my colleague Mr Gilkinet about the number of airfare refunds. But of course, as you asked me, I am putting pressure, via my colleague Gilkinet, on the companies to pay them back as soon as possible, as we do in other cases, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Indeed, given the overlapping of jurisdictions within the government, I have planned to also address this question to your colleague, Mr Gilkinet. I had, of course, tabled a whole series of questions. I hear your willingness to exert pressure, not only personally, but also through your colleague. For me, this is an extremely important issue, because it concerns the defence of consumer law. As you suggest, in addition to the answers you have given me, I will await further answers from your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the competences are such that this subject can also be dealt with by the firms of Mr. Dermagne and Mr. Gilkinet. However, the whole government must be able to put pressure on SN Brussels Airlines. Not so long ago, Brussels Airlines asked the government for a bridge loan. This money gives the Belgian State an important position regarding the pressure it may exert on the company. I therefore clearly ask the government to work so that customers can at least benefit from European law as regards the reimbursement of airline tickets. Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u30	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the official meetings of the Council are organised by the Council of the European Union and chaired by the Presidency of the Council. However, each Presidency of the Council may organise informal meetings of ministers to discuss initiatives on a particular subject or of particular interest to the Council. On 7 December, an informal meeting of EU Ministers on consumer protection was held. Madam Secretary of State, what was the agenda for this meeting? How did you feel about it? What can you tell us about the discussions that took place there? Have any decisions been made? If so, will they have an impact on our country? Finally, what will be the agenda for the possible next meeting and its objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u31	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the meeting was organised on the initiative of the German Presidency so that the Member States' consumer protection ministers could present their position on the main points of the European consumer agenda in the context of increasing digitisation and digitalisation, taking into account, inter alia, the Digital Single Act and the legislation on artificial intelligence, the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the experience gained during the covid-19 crisis. This meeting was an opportunity for Commissioner Reynders to thank the Member States for their support for the new consumer agenda and for their political will to establish effective cooperation between the Member States. It was also announced that the European Commission would present three legislative proposals in May 2021: the greenwashing, right to repair, the revision of the Credit Directive and the revision of the Product Safety Directive. The European Commission will also ensure that administrative cooperation is further improved. The German Minister, Christine Lambrecht, concluded by highlighting the convergences in the priorities highlighted by the Member States. Belgium, for its part, stressed the importance of the cooperation network between the authorities of the Member States, in particular in situations requiring a rapid response such as that of the covid-19 pandemic. It expressed its support for the European Commission's project to develop innovative electronic tools to strengthen the capacity of national authorities to combat illegal online business practices and to identify dangerous products. Finally, she recalled the exceptional measures taken at national level to help citizens with serious financial problems as a result of the covid-19 crisis, particularly in the area of consumer credit and mortgage loans (removal of periodic repayments). The following points were also highlighted. Firstly, the importance of synergies and cooperation between the European Union and national policies. To this end, legal certainty in electronic communications must be guaranteed. Secondly, the need to adopt sustainable policies to support sustainable and circular innovation and to encourage citizens to consume responsibly. The consumption of quality and local products should be encouraged without excessive costs being imposed on the consumer. Thirdly, the crisis of covid-19 has shown that a thorough reflection on a European framework that enables states to respond to exceptional and urgent situations should be carried out. The European rule and method of operation must be adapted to the circumstances of crisis. For example, several Member States have been forced to take temporary exceptional measures to compensate for the dramatic consequences of lockdown measures (travel bans, etc.).). In this context, European law sometimes acts as a brake and prior consultation with the European Commission and the Member States is not always possible in such short time frames. In the travel sector, for example, there is a need for coherent responses across Europe, including the measure incorporating the package travel directive. The Portuguese Presidency which has just begun to conclude next June has the ambition to have the Council's conclusions on the new agenda of the European Commission on consumer protection approved by the Competitiveness Council on 25 February 2021. Although we do not yet have a working document, four meetings of the Council working group on consumer rights are scheduled for January.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for providing me with an exhaustive response and for marking the files on the agenda of this informal meeting. I believe that this type of meeting with your European counterparts is always of interest and allows, beyond the presentation of each other's situation, to exchange good practices. Of course, I will not fail to be attentive to this new Portuguese Presidency and to the issues that can move forward in the right direction in relation to your competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, there are still locksmiths who use usury rates in an urgent intervention. People are not informed in advance of the high rates, but are forced to pay them after the intervention. Invoices up to 200 euros or more are no exception. To stop these practices, then Minister Kris Peeters, together with the Flemish Slotenmakers Union, drew up a code of conduct in June 2019. The code of conduct "urgent interventions" stipulates, inter alia, that the locksmith must indicate transparently on his website the prices for his working hours, movements and also the fees that may be charged for interventions outside normal working hours, such as evenings, nights or Sundays. Despite this code of conduct, I still get stories from malicious locksmiths. I therefore have a few specific questions on this matter. How many locksmiths have signed the code of conduct and what initiatives will you take to ensure that more locksmiths join the code of conduct? To what extent is the code of conduct respected by the locksmiths who signed the code of conduct? Has the Economic Inspectorate already opened an investigation, have checks already been carried out and, if so, what are the results? Has the Economic Inspectorate sanctioned locksmiths yet? If so, how many? These practices are not confined to locksmiths. Are you in favour of extending the code of conduct "urgent interventions" to other professions performing urgent interventions? Will you take an initiative for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u34	Madam Secretary, I would like to join the question and focus on what is happening to Google. Malicious locksmiths pay for ads and are therefore at the top of the list showing search engines. Those who need a locksmith will often contact the first name and number and end up with a crooked locksmith. On the VRT website we could read that you would sit together with the locksmiths, the Economic Inspection and Google. Has that consultation taken place in the meantime? If yes, what were the results? What concrete actions will be taken? What can Google do? What does the company promise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u35	The question is indeed a very topical one. At the moment, only 48 key makers have signed the code of conduct. That is indeed a limited number. The code of conduct has recently been cited in the press, but this has not yet led to any additional accessions. At present, only the Flemish Federation has supported it, but we are working on extending it to the rest of the country. The Economic Inspectorate plans to monitor compliance with the code of conduct, but will first focus on tackling the malicious locksmiths. For this I have indeed already had a consultation with the locksmiths sector, the FPS Economy and Google, in order to speed up the removal of advertisements from malicious locksmiths. A follow-up meeting is scheduled for next week, which will discuss, among other things, the issue of the code of conduct for the whole country. The aim is to work sector-wide, to get those who are not in the story, behind the code and the elimination of malicious practices. In cooperation with the actors, the possibilities for introducing a status for locksmiths in urgent interventions will be explored. There will also be enhanced cooperation between the Economic Inspection and Google. Over the past two years, the Economic Inspectorate has issued 138 warnings and 10 minutes on charge locksmiths. 46 websites were also made inaccessible, but the consultation showed that once one website is made inaccessible, another will be started. We must tackle the whole system and try to prevent such situations from repeating themselves. The problem is not limited to locksmiths. We will make an analysis to address similar problems in different sectors of urgent recovery services. For example, it is also about roof workers and plumbers that are sometimes urgently needed. One then looks for a professional through the website, via Google, and one all too often finds out about malicious service providers. So to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, 48 locksmiths is indeed not much. It's a start, but there's still a lot of work to be done. You are consulting and you want to examine a statute, but I think it is important to consider whether we can turn locksmith into a protected profession, which is subject to clear criteria, in order to protect both the consumer and the fair locksmith. That's the only way to get rid of this. I look forward to your initiative next week and later steps and I would like to come back to that later in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive explanation. I hear there's gonna be a sequel, so I'd like to wait for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, senior citizens are doing their best to join their time and embrace digitalisation. The digital evolution of this time is, however, a real Copernican revolution for them and it is certainly not self-evident to make the transition. I suspect that each of us recognizes this difficult transition in the elderly around him. During this gradual transition, seniors are forced to come into contact with the high costs that banks then charge. A survey conducted by a senior association shows that many older people in our society feel that banks incur too high costs when they do not bank online or too little. Also the widely known De De Inspecteur van Radio 2 apparently already received a lot of complaints. Madam Secretary of State, are you aware that many elderly people think that these costs are excessive? What is your position on the matter? Are you going to consult with the banks? We must draw the full map of digitalisation, and we must not forget anyone. For this we need to guide everyone towards digitisation, but I doubt that excessive charging of costs to our senior citizens is the right way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, thank you for your question, which is very close to my heart. I am aware of the fact that digitisation in the banking sector and in other sectors creates difficulties for those who are not fully involved. I therefore share your concern and have already been contacted by the Inspector. It's a theme that lives with the older population. You have read in my policy paper and statement that I want to eliminate or at least minimize the negative effects of digitalisation on digital illiterates or hybrid users. In many cases, older people are covered by this category, if they wish to follow their financial situation digitally, but still want to receive physical statements or documents or if they are not able to compete digitally. I am following the issue closely to determine the effects and consequences of the digitalisation of banking and other services. I have therefore asked my administration to analyse this further. The digitisation of our society is undoubtedly under way. The financial sector, which is an important part of our economy, is also strongly committed to the digitisation of its services. Digital evolution is global. Of course, Belgium cannot and must not be left behind. It is really necessary to ensure that the consumer, in particular the weak user, is not discriminated against or excluded from this development. At the moment, I do not have all the necessary elements and information to make a concrete and accurate assessment of all the consequences of the rapid technological development of banking services. More needs to be done to raise awareness of digital inclusion. Moreover, it is also necessary to ensure that banking services remain accessible to all at a reasonable price. Indeed, it should be noted that, as a result of the reduction in the number of offices and, among other things, account extract printers, a particular target group should rely more on the traditional ways of managing its accounts on a daily basis, to which a high price tag is linked. My position is clear. I'm in favour of digitalization. However, for those who cannot participate, there must be help and assistance to ensure that digitisation has minimal negative effects. In our contacts with the sector, we emphasized this from the outset. We are looking at initiatives that already exist or need to be developed. Further formal consultations will be planned with the sector concerned, together with my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs. Closer cooperation with other members of the government and with other entities, such as the FSMA and the National Bank of Belgium, federated units, municipal authorities, volunteers and consumer organisations will also help. This is not a dossier that will be completed quickly, as new problems often arise, such as digital skills that differ from fixed and mobile online. So it will be a long-term work. As stated in the policy paper and as I have repeatedly pointed out here, it is certainly one of the most important tasks of the coming years to the consumer, especially in the banking sector but in all sectors, in order to ensure that they can receive the same service without having to pay more costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u40	Thank you very much for your very extensive commitment, Madam Secretary of State. Of course, it won't be easy. It is perceived as a very high cost for those who are not along. Those who are with us will be spared from that and may have the same costs if they were not with us. This is therefore an incentive for digitisation. However, it is really important that banks should be called upon to support this group in part, including with a financial reduction. How this should be done is not yet clear. I like to listen to the sequel and we will follow it up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, certain companies are accused of using a big word "so-called planned ageing." Among other things, Apple is in that boat. Test Purchase recently started a group claim against Apple. After all, Apple proposed updates to the iPhone 6 Series operating system in the knowledge that it would make the devices less performant and even stop operating unexpectedly. The consumer was not informed about this. According to Test Purchase, the aim of Apple was to allow users to buy a new device in this way. Test Purchase wants the consumer to be compensated for that damage. That is not surprising, because in the United States Apple did. Apple has compensated American consumers. Since Apple so far failed to respond to the demand for compensation to non-American consumers, Test Purchase brought the case to court last month in a group action. Are you aware of the group claim that Test Purchase initiated against Apple? Have you taken note of the file? How do you evaluate this? Of course, planned ageing is totally irresponsible in the light of both environmental and consumer protection. Do you agree that planned ageing is a form of unfair commercial practices? If so, will you take steps to address this at European level if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u42	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have indeed taken note of the group claim of Test Purchase against Apple, and I certainly encourage such initiatives of class action on behalf of consumers. On the other hand, the Economic Inspectorate did not conduct a criminal investigation into Apple's alleged practices. Indeed, no significant and useful reports were submitted to the hotline and there are not enough elements available for the time being to carry out an in-depth analysis. In accordance with European and Belgian legislation, the phenomenon of the planned ageing of goods is not a separate crime. Nevertheless, although the burden of proof is not evident, it is already possible to take action against it on the basis of existing legislation on pre-contractual information obligations and unfair commercial practices. The European Commission also confirmed this vision in the context of an exchange of views on the issue of planned ageing in October 2018. The subject has been on the European agenda for a long time. For these reasons, a legislative initiative, albeit at European or national level, does not seem to me right away. I can tell you that the fight against premature ageing of products is part of the federal policy to support and develop the circular economy. As announced in the coalition agreement, the government, in coordination with the Länder, will draw up a federal action plan on this subject. In this context, early ageing of products will certainly also be addressed and a policy will be formulated around it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, I am glad that you take the issue seriously and will also take action against it. You say that there have been few reports so far, but that's often because people are just not aware of the fact that, if their cell phone doesn't work anymore, it's a result of the update they've done. I thank you and look forward to the roll-out of the action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, we know you as someone who takes transparency and professionalism as core values. I have seen that again in a number of year-end interviews, which, by the way, were very interesting. In one of those interviews, you say you're president of a service cheque company. It is about a typical local non-profit organisation, where the Presidency is usually granted to a ship. I assume this is also the case here. In the context of transparency, I would like to ask some questions about this. Firstly, you know very well the European domain, where there are codes about Commissioners, for example, and about what functions can be combined. In Belgium there is no such code for ministers. International comments have already been made on this. Specifically, the fact that this code is not there is of course not your responsibility, but I would like to ask you what your personal opinion is on this matter. Do you consider it desirable to combine functions or not? This is, of course, a special situation, with a government which has started quite suddenly, which is still in a transitional situation. Secondly, I do not see that position immediately in your mandate statement. I see in the statutes that this would be an unpaid job. That too is the question of confirmation. Will this be included in your declaration or are you planning to do something else with it? Is that function effectively unpaid?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u45	During my appointment as Secretary of State, indeed very suddenly, within the municipality were examined which mandates are compatible with the function of Secretary of State. I immediately laid down all the functions that were not, for example, members of the Interrand board of directors, a waste community. For the presidency of the Uvalabor association there was no incompatibility. The board of directors of this non-profit organisation has also not come together since my appointment on 1 October because of corona and certainly the second wave. Normally, a meeting is scheduled for this month. I would like to go into more detail about my commitment within that non-profit association. Uvalabor originated from the former PWA, the Local Employment Agency of Hoeilaart. I was also chairman of this PWA, since 2007 as a city council member. So this was long before I was ships. That function is therefore not related to a ship's office at all. So there was no link to my later ship's mandate. That organization has always been very close to my heart, still. Many women have not only found a full-fledged job in their own region, but they are also proud to be part of this team and to stand on their own feet. They are also assisted in setting up all their administration, health insurance, children's education and so on. I have helped Uvalabor become an organization that employs more than fifty people and supports many families in the municipality. It is a very beautiful organization that is close to my heart and of which I myself learn a lot. Politicians do their best to remain involved in the daily lives of citizens in all transparency. I have always learned a great deal from that and I hope to learn a lot from it in the future by being in close contact with everyone. As far as your second question is concerned, you have correctly deduced from the statutes that this function is unpaid and there are no expenses or whatever. Furthermore, you will see in the statutes that it is impossible to obtain other benefits from the organisation as a director. If the organization is ever shut down, then the remaining amount goes to a charity. As you could derive from my answer to the first question, I have committed myself to Uvalabor from my belief in emancipation and increasing self-reliance. You also asked me if I think this is deontologically justified. I believe that there is absolutely no interaction between the two functions, but if my workload as Secretary of State would not allow me to do the other work properly, I will, of course, consider it. Deontologically, however, I see no problem in honour and conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, you are right to say that I have also emphasised that there is no deontological code, so it depends on one's own, personal evaluation. You say that you share the analysis that it is to be encouraged that politicians at different levels remain in reality. It is very clear that your passion lies also with that non-profit association. The counter-analysis would be that you take the statutes of that organisation as a reference to determine whether there is incompatibility, but another analysis could also be followed in which you take your role as State Secretary as a reference. You are free to make one or the other analysis. I see you're making one, not the other. In addition, I can only appeal to all members of the government, however, that the atmosphere of partiality should always be avoided. The issue of labour market reforms will be an important issue for all governments, including the federal ones, so there must be vigilance in this area, but I note that you take this to heart. However, I hope that this transparency will also be expressed and that you will include it in your mandates, which I have established was not the case. After all, it is subject to reporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, my question is about slack fill, an understanding I have not known myself. Many food and household products packages contain more air than product. The Dutch Consumers' Association reported on this at the end of December. I found these figures remarkable. For example, a large bag of M&Ms is only at 64 % filled. The rest is air. In a box of Sun dishwasher tablets there are only 22 cubes, although almost four times more can be added. For example, there are still countless examples. This is not illegal as long as the exact content of the product is clearly stated on the packaging, but this raises two problems. Firstly, it is mainly misleading for consumers. The packaging suggests a larger content than in reality. Secondly, it is unnecessarily polluting, because more packaging material is needed. That's often plastic, which is non-degradable. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Do you have a view of the situation on the Belgian market? The European Directive on packaging and packaging waste provides that packaging must be manufactured in such a way as to limit the volume and weight of packaging to the minimum necessary. How can this practice be reconciled with the legislation, which insists on a minimum quantity of packaging? How is regulation monitored and enforced? Do you agree that this practice of slack filling is actually a form of consumer deception? If so, will you take initiatives to address this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u48	Thank you for this question, which, if I am not mistaken, has just arrived on the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u49	She was two minutes late, but she was added to the agenda after the cabinet agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u50	It is important that this is brought to the attention of the House. For me, too, this was a new concept. During the Christmas holidays this came in the press and I was somewhat surprised by it, but if one thinks carefully, this is indeed so. Many packagings show that they are much larger than what is in them. Book VI on market practices and consumer protection of the Code of Economic Law prohibits misleading consumers. The law expressly states that there should be no deception as to the main characteristics of the product, including the quantity. If the quantity indicated on the packaging corresponds to its legal content, there can be no misleading commercial practices, purely legal. However, the consumer must be vigilant and consult the net quantities indicated on the packaging. In your third question you are asking whether we should bring slack filling to the attention of the public and take action to combat it. For many, or at least for me, it is a new concept in Belgium. You ask whether we have already mapped that out in Belgium, but that is not the case. However, what has not yet been done can be done. The issue has now come on the agenda through the Netherlands. We certainly need to look at what we can do about this in the context of consumer protection. You also ask a question about packaging. That is a competence of the Regions, so it is best to address this question to the regional ministers. When we see what amount of extra packaging is being used as a result of slack filling, I think that there is indeed work to be done in this area, but that is what the regional authorities should be doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic323x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, as far as this deception is concerned, if there is on the packaging how many grams it contains and that is actually the case, then that is not in itself a deception. Still, it's double. When one sees a large bag, one expects that it is mainly filled with the product. In any case, I will take your comment, because it is not just a question of consumer protection, it is certainly also a question of the environment. I will therefore have it raised by my colleagues at Flemish level.
