ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u1	I would like to make another remark. The press release on the relevant Council of Ministers was quite brief. There has been talk of the further roll-out of 5G. Next time, can we be a little clearer in those explanations as to exactly what elements were discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u2	Mr Freilich, the draft law and the royal decision follow from the informed decision of the National Security Council of 22 June 2020. That's the point of reference. It was then proposed to exclude the so-called high risk vendors in certain network parts. This has been preceded by a thorough, autonomous, national risk analysis, with the security and intelligence services, of course, as well as with the relevant sectoral and other relevant authorities. The starting point was and still is that Belgium takes its responsibility as a host country for international institutions very seriously. It concerns, among other things, the EU and NATO. The various international organisations located in Brussels and elsewhere in the country will, of course, use the Belgian 5G network. It is therefore logical that our country should consider possible risks associated with the use of this new and strategically important technology. The criteria or factors listed in the 5G toolbox derive from the overall assessment of the risks posed by fifth generation networks provided by the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity, the European Network and Information Security Agency. They date from October 9, 2019. The study as well as the 5G toolbox are supported and implemented by the 27 Member States, making it impossible to use intermediate categories. For this reason, the preliminary draft law and the royal decree follow the recommendations of the 5G toolbox. Moreover, implementation is also monitored by the European institutions and verified by, among other things, the European audit bodies. The legal texts define the approach proposed by our country. The criteria or factors used are binary. They will be fulfilled or they will not be fulfilled. There's no way in between. This means that a given element that is assessed will be either positive or negative. In the 5G toolbox, only high risk supplier is used when it comes to imposing restrictions. There has so far been no need to diversify the different identified levels of risk. The 5G toolbox has the value of a recommendation. We can call that an instrument of soft law. It provides guidance for harmonisation among Member States. National authorities can still decide how to implement this. As I have just indicated, a new category does not seem to us to be a necessary or appropriate choice. So we see no reason to deviate from the recommendation. It is important for our country, as an open economy, to ensure that the free market works as much as possible. That is why we have opted not for a complete ban on high-risk suppliers, but for a restriction in the most sensitive parts and places of the telecoms network. The draft legislative texts require operators to obtain prior authorisation before rolling out 5G networks, or request regularisation, if architecture is already in place. This approach, combined with transition periods corresponding to the life cycle of the equipment in the network, ensures that the economic impact on operators is limited. That is an important element. Objective criteria were used to determine whether a supplier would be considered a high risk vendor. No specific suppliers or countries shall be endorsed. I've said that before. The file for mobile network operators (MNOs) is currently before the Council of State for advice and will probably be presented to the Chamber sometime in September. Indeed, there is still a European notification procedure on Directive 2015/1535, which requires Member States to notify any draft technical regulation on products and services of the information society before incorporating it into national law. There is also a notification at the World Trade Organisation. For another KB, with extension to the MVNOs (mobile virtual network operators) as well as to vertical players such as ASTRID, and managed service providers, the public consultation will soon start. I therefore assume that we will discuss the dossier with you a number of times in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u3	Madam Minister, I note that there is no intermediate category: either one is a high-risk provider or one is not. You also indicated that the toolbox is no more than a recommendation; it is also mentioned on the European Commission's website. Nevertheless, I understand that each country will have to submit its plans to the European Commission, on which it will assess whether the recommendation is being complied with or not. It therefore seems strange to me that it is called a recommendation, since it is subsequently checked whether or not it is satisfactory; but that is apparently how it works in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, at present too many municipalities in the province of Luxembourg are affected by the presence of white areas. As a reminder, a white area is an area of territory that does not have access to a quality network, both at the level of the Internet (high speed) and the mobile network. The province of Luxembourg is most affected by this problem. Several municipalities, including Bertrix, Marche, Vielsalm and Libramont, to name but a few, are affected by this crucial lack of network coverage. Of course, some investments have already been made and some improvements have been made. But in this second wave covid period, having a good connection turns out to be a priority, especially for students. In fact, courses are largely delivered remotely, forcing students to follow them online. This organisation involves equipping itself with an equipped computer and a good internet connection. There is therefore a problem for those living in the white zone. As a result of latency and unexpected interruptions of connections, these students suffer from a daily disadvantage, all the more so during the exams, the most crucial period of the year in their curriculum. This is a real handicap for them. This is the case with their future and their academic success. Madam Minister, have you been able to assess the importance of the problems faced today by students, especially those living in the province of Luxembourg, which is, unfortunately, the poor parent in terms of connections? What agreements have been reached to date with operators to address these shortcomings? Can you confirm to me that you will do what is necessary so that the measures that will be taken to deal with the problem will not lead to additional costs for the inhabitants of these rural areas? In the event that the technical equipment programme of these areas is removed from the schedule, are you planning an alternative measure, given the urgent context of the situation resulting from the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Hanus, the household coverage rate in 30 Mb/s is 99.1% in Belgium. The coverage rate in 100 Mb/s is 97.3%. Therefore, an effort remains to be made to cover the 2.7% of households that do not yet have access to a minimum download speed of 100 Mb/s, which is a comfortable speed to participate in video conferences, etc. In the province of Luxembourg, it is estimated that one in five households do not yet have a very high-speed Internet connection (100 Mb/s). These are heavily forested areas and/or where the population density is very low. This makes the deployment of fixed networks very expensive. Even if operators are not obliged to make their investment projects public, with the new provisions of the European Code, the regulator will be able to ask them to communicate the deployment plans for the next three years. The aim is to enable it to plan public policies to be put in place to provide connectivity in areas where the market will not do so on its own without state aid. The regulator has adopted a series of measures to encourage the deployment of very high-speed networks, regulatory measures favourable to investment. Thus an operator investing in these areas will not have to open its network to other operators for five years. The government has also adopted a reduction in the cost of microwave beams to connect the most remote villages, which has led to the modernization of around 50,000 addresses since 2018 throughout Walloon territory. However, there are still areas where operators will not even invest with such incentives because they do not have a business case. There is now a question of investing public money in the most rural areas through state aid to make business cases positive. Such measures will be detailed in the coming months as part of the national plan for fixed and mobile broadband or broadband, which the government is currently preparing and finalizing. The objective of this plan is to achieve the European objectives of Gigabit by 2025. In particular, the aim is to provide all households with access to a minimum download speed of 100 Mb/s, but also to provide 1 Gb/s connectivity to key socio-economic drivers, such as schools. In addition, 5G coverage is expected to be available in all urban areas and on major land transport routes by 2025. Finally, it is important to know, as you requested, that if public subsidies were to be granted to deploy the networks, the citizens of the areas concerned would not be involved. Operators operate uniform prices throughout our territory. Prices in these areas would therefore be equivalent to prices elsewhere. I hope I have provided some answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u6	Minister, thank you for the research and the answers you provide as a minister. Beyond what concerns my province, I think you have provided useful answers for everyone. Knowing that the government is going to take up these issues through the future plan you mentioned, seems to me very timely and reassuring for the future. As you may know, I am still a little hungry for the urgent needs of students. But you have all my confidence in acting for the next time at the government level. I will continue to study the case with my local colleagues, the aldermen and the mayors, to try to find alternative solutions. Given the urgency and necessity of an improvement, the situation remains largely complicated for students who are in difficulty. Thank you for listening to this day and I wish you all a good end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u7	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns your ambition to address the digital divide. Reducing this gap is an important policy challenge, which you have included in your policy paper. The gap already existed before the corona crisis, but the crisis has only made the issue of e-inclusion more important. Think of all the children and young people who depended on home education and had to attend online classes, grandparents who want to make video calls with their grandchildren, singles who were fully dependent on digital ways to stay in touch with family and friends, or households who wanted to make their purchases online during the lockdown. They are all examples of how digitisation has helped us. Digitisation can, therefore, clearly lead to progress, but then we must ensure that everyone is with us. The covid pandemic has accelerated the digitisation of our society, but also put the digital divide even more prominently on the agenda. People who do not have access to the Internet or who do not have the right skills are more out of the loop than ever before. Think of children from underprivileged families who have to attend online classes but do not have Internet access. The corona crisis has shown that digital connectivity is a basic need in our society. You acknowledge the importance of closing the digital divide. That is why, at the end of January, you called on the Belgian telecom operators to work on this. You took out 6 million euros for it. How many projects have been submitted in the meantime? How many projects were finally selected and what do these projects involve? When will the grants be available? When can the projects be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u8	Mr President, Mr Freilich, Mrs Platteau, it is true that this government has released EUR 6 million in grants to support operators in projects to bridge the digital divide, such as initiatives to extend Internet access, make the Internet more affordable and promote digital skills. The projects are assessed by a working group of digital inclusion experts and telecom experts from the PPS Social Integration, the BIPT and the FPS Economy. An observer coordinator of my cabinet is also present. As regards selection criteria, eight categories of points are being allocated, including the target group, the scope of the project, the situational vulnerabilities that the project intends to address, the territorial coverage and ownership of the operators. In addition to the criteria used by the working group to reach a decision, participation criteria are also used. For example, the maximum amount of the application may be EUR 2 million, the grant may be limited to a maximum of 50% of the cost of the entire project and the minimum amount of the operator's input is EUR 500,000. The principle is that the government places a euro next to every euro of the operator. The projects submitted had to comply with the State aid measures, namely to remedy market failures. The operator also had to agree with the fact that the project is submitted for approval to the European Commission and that the payment will only be made if it is in conformity; which is obvious. The project will therefore only be launched once Europe has approved it. You also ask when the subsidies will be awarded. It is intended that they will receive the grants from January 2022, in addition only if an additional condition is met, namely: a positive evaluation after the end of the project. Those are all the conditions they have to accept for boarding. Mr Freilich, on your question about operators, I confirm that the call is only for operators, but that they can work together, whatever we encourage, with other organisations, such as civil society organisations and expertise organisations, such as poverty organisations and OCMWs. This is also given a weight in the award of points to each project. Mr Freilich, in reply to your other questions, I can tell you that the call was launched on the BIPT website and that projects that use infrastructure may also be eligible. However, I would like to point out that the condition is that they comply with European state aid rules and thus respond to market failures, as it is called. The operator must also bear in mind the purpose of the call, which is to reduce the digital divide. As regards the participating operators, I can inform you that until 7 March 2021 the operators could sign up to submit their project. At the moment, we have notified three projects to the European Commission. So three projects have been blocked. We are planning a second additional call for the remaining EUR 1.2 million. This means that we have three projects of EUR 4.8 million and that we are launching another call, which will once again be open to all operators. I hope that I have been able to answer your questions sufficiently. We shall probably come back to the dossier in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u9	Madam Minister, it is indeed a good thing that there are projects that are trying to reduce the digital divide. In this case, it is only possible for operators to join, but it is important that other target groups are also addressed and financially encouraged in the future. I also asked whether projects that invest purely in infrastructure could be eligible for this, because I understand that one of the projects concerns an operator who was planning to build its network infrastructure anyway. Now he can have that partly financed by you, Madam Secretary, because he has repacked the project as a project that does something about the digital divide. Every time people invest in infrastructure, they obviously help people to get a faster Internet connection, but I do not think that the operators will be relieved of their initial task, namely upgrading their network. It is therefore important to ensure that this is not the case. Now that you tell me that there is also a check by the European Commission on state aid, I am already a little more reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u10	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that we have to wait a while to know the concrete content of the projects. At least we're looking forward to it. It is a good thing that operators themselves have to spend their own resources and finance 50% themselves. As Mr Freilich says, the creation of a faster network does not necessarily mean e-inclusion or an affordable Internet connection, so I suppose the projects must meet those criteria and the European Commission will have to pass the European Commission's scrutiny to be eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u11	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u12	I would also mention that I asked a similar question to your colleague, Minister Van Quickenborne, who gave me the answers to the first three questions. He referred me to you for questions 4, 5 and 6, but you are welcome to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u13	The Minister will certainly be prepared. We'll listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u14	Mr President, Mr Freilich, this is an important question. According to the information we received from the BIPT, which I hope corresponds to the information that my colleague Van Quickenborne obtained, there was a case of espionage in 2013 with regard to Belgacom, the then name of the current Proximus. Since 2013, no other cases of large-scale espionage in electronic communications have been identified. It is therefore one case in 2013, according to the information we obtained from the BIPT. You are asking about the legal framework. As you know, legislation is under way to implement the National Security Council's decision of 22 June 2020 on 5G security measures. The text is now before the Council of State and will shortly be coming to Parliament, as I have just indicated. An important additional element is that telecom operators do indeed have a notification obligation. They should notify incidents to the BIPT, in accordance with the Decision of 14 December 2017 on the thresholds and modalities for notification of security incidents within the electronic communications sector. If necessary, the National Crisis Centre, the Federal Computer Crime Unit and CERT.be will be informed. Critical infrastructures are regularly inspected and confidential reports are drawn up. Those reports contain recommendations and are sent to the operator so that there is feedback and remedial action for the operator. So far, no infringement proceedings have been initiated following recommendations to operators who have not been followed up on safety issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u15	Thank you. I note that no incidents have been reported to the BIPT since 2013. Either our country is doing the super good, or we just don't know it and we are being spied on. Let's hope for the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u16	To be honest, I'm afraid of it, but now I'm falling out of character. .
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u17	Mrs Platteau, this question is in line with what I think is particularly important, namely what the telecoms ombud service has told us from the annual report. There are two important lessons to be learned from that annual report. Firstly, there was the impact of the corona crisis on consumers during the closure of non-essential shops. As a result, consumers could not go to the physical shops of the operators. Secondly, there are the difficulties at the level of the help desks. I also note in the new telecoms law that a consumer can leave his/her data after a maximum of two and a half minutes. The operator is then obliged to contact again within 24 hours. This should put an end to phones that keep ringing and not being recorded, resulting in total loss of consumers. The Ombudsman's report also highlights the large number of complaints about the social tariff system. I shall come back to that in detail, following a question which is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u18	The question will appear. The intellectual work will still be paid and published.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u19	Perhaps I should not refer to other questions in my answer. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u20	You can do whatever you want as long as you answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u21	In any case, social rates are also a subject that we consider to be very important and where we are working on. We want to eliminate the thresholds for customers by means of automation. The automatic allocation of rights is also included in our policy paper. This also applies to telecommunications. We're working this out technically. It doesn't turn out to be that simple, I'd like to give you that. At least it's a priority for us. We welcome the fact that there is a reduction in the number of complaints, although each complaint is too much. We also note that 97% of complaints are resolved in consultation with the operators in favour of the consumer. This proves that the ombudsmen service does a good job and works efficiently and decisively. In my policy, I also always take account of the complaints made by consumers and the recommendations made by the ombuds service. In this way, we can only make our policies better. One element of your question was who takes the first five places in the top ten of the number of files dealt with. They are still occupied by the same ones in 2020 as in 2019: Proximus on 1, Telenet on 2, Orange on 3, Scarlet on 4 and VOO on 5. Actually, that's also the order of the size of the customer file of the different operators, so proportional there doesn't seem to be a problem. As for your question about Easy Switch and the plans that we have around it, I can tell you that we have already proactively started to reform that system. It exists, but it may not yet be so well-known or efficient and we need to reform it in order to convince more customers to use it and thus allow them to move more easily to another telecom provider. The reform is certainly also based on the analysis of the complaints received by the ombudsdienst and on the telecoms regulator's evaluation report. Finally, I would like to stress that every operator has an obligation to inform the customer in the event of tariff changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u22	Madam Minister, it is already a great improvement if you manage to achieve that people who call customer service should not wait endlessly and that, if necessary, they should be called back automatically. We must ensure that the social tariff thresholds are removed by the automatic allocation of rights. It is very important that this happens, but as you say it is not a simple task. We are now trying to introduce this automatic allocation of rights into various sectors. I also welcome the ombudsmen's annual report and see that it is doing a very useful job. If people have a problem with their supplier of basic things such as telephony and the Internet, then they must be able to get a story somewhere. It is also important for Easy Switch to become more famous. This can only improve services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u23	Mrs Platteau, this question about data retention is also of particular concern to us. You'll understand. Of course, we saw the judgment of the Constitutional Court which imposes the destruction of the obligation to retain telecommunications data in general and in a non-discriminatory manner. It is actually a follow-up to the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the La Quadrature du Net judgment. It shall also decide on complete destruction with immediate effect. That means that we were prepared for that and that we were already working to fix it. The Court of Justice found that an obligation to retain telecommunications data in general and in a non-discriminatory manner is contrary to European law, and that only an obligation to keep telecommunications data in a targeted manner, for example in the fight against serious crime and the protection of national security, passes the test with European law. We're studying the arrest in detail right now. We were already thinking about a repair law. In any case, it is our wish that this should be approved as soon as possible in Parliament, with due respect for the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the legitimate concerns about privacy underlying it. Data retention has been a tool for intelligence and security services in tackling crime and threats to national security for several years. Both access to such data and their retention are subject to strict rules. Therefore, the repair law aims to register in the chalk lines of the judgment while allowing intelligence and security services to continue to operate in an adequate and proportionate manner in cases of serious crime and threats to national security. It is a delicate balancing exercise between the right to privacy and the fight against serious crime. However, we are convinced that we can reconcile privacy with security, in accordance with the case law of the Court, as it should be under the rule of law. In reply to your last question, I can state that the judgment of the Constitutional Court has no impact on the use of real-time data from telecom companies. The application for destruction concerned the law of 29 May 2016 on the collection and retention of telecom data, not the use of data in real time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You have clearly outlined the balance to be struck between privacy and security, which is, moreover, very important in our society in general. This is also important when it comes to the pandemic law, which is currently under discussion. It is also good to know that real-time data is outside that limitation, because we can indeed use it. We now see that this can indeed provide very interesting data for crowdcontrol. I remember that you think respect for privacy is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament 55016941C by Mrs Lanjri will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u26	Madam Minister, last week we in the Chamber adopted a resolution on tackling intra-family violence, in particular against women and children. Among other things, it asks the federal government to encourage telecom operators to help counter violence by ensuring that calls to emergency lines or calls do not appear on the telephone bill in order to protect the victim. It is clear that when people are faced with intra-family violence, they must be able to turn to the helplines safely without fearing that their partner can see, for example, on the telephone bill to which helpline has been called. Will you take action in response to this request from the resolution? Have you already registered a provision in the telecoms law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u27	Mrs Platteau, as mentioned in the resolution, has a multidimensional character in intra-family violence: all acts of physical, sexual, psychological, economic or online violence occurring within the household or between former or current spouses or partners, whether or not they have the same place of residence. It is important that we recognise this problem as a horizontal or transversal competence at different levels of policy, and that we are all working on it. As far as my Telecommunications competence is concerned, telecom operators can indeed be encouraged to combat violence by ensuring that calls to emergency lines or calls do not appear on the phone bill to effectively protect the victims. Article 110 (3) of the telecoms Act effectively provides that calls to emergency services do not appear on the invoice. The list of emergency services is specified in Article 107 of the telecoms Act. It is very clear on that point. In concrete terms, calls for emergency services that can be reached free of charge, including the Suicide Line, the Tele-Travel Centres and the Child Phone Services, and also the European Centre for Missing and Sexually exploited Children. The fact that calls to these numbers do not appear on the telephone bill seems to us to be an important contribution that we can make to the victims from the telecommunications sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u28	Madam Minister, as you say, it is governed by the law, but perhaps we should check whether the list of emergency numbers and assistance lines is still up-to-date enough. Perhaps we should look together with civil society to see whether the list should be extended. There's another important point in the law, and I know that, but maybe the general public doesn't know that. Perhaps we could consider a communication campaign that makes it clear that certain numbers that are called do not appear on the invoice. In this way, we can move forward on the same momentum to protect victims of intra-family violence as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic456x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament 55014155C by Mrs Depraetere had already been postponed, she expires.
