ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of January we read in several newspapers that Kaat Bollen renounced her title as a psychologist after a conflict with the Psychologists' Commission. From now on, she declared herself a sexologist and a therapist. The reason was an anonymous complaint lodged by a colleague at the Disciplinary Board for wearing burlesque clothing in the private sphere. That way, Kaat Bollen would dishonor the title of psychologist. In a response, several psychologists indicate that they intend to cancel their membership on the Psychologists' Committee. The consequence is that in Belgium there is a risk of creating different names for what is essentially the same service and is based on an equivalent diploma. Because of an archaic power structure, I believe, not all of these service providers should bear the same, uniform, name for the type of care they offer. At the same time, I find it problematic that a person with a degree in psychology and a degree in sexology is compromising the dignity of the profession by participating in activities and wearing clothes. Such decision-making requires a very broad and far-reaching interpretation of what is worthy in a particular profession. In a way, there has been a lack of transparency. After all, if the Disciplinary Board had communicated openly about the reason for the sanction, then perhaps all this polemic would not have taken place. The discussion is held internally, which seems to be a problem. Minister, how do you assess this communication aspect? The Order of Medicine is characterized by the same lack of transparency, but with the Order we see very clearly a distinction between committing errors in the profession and serious errors outside the profession, when those errors can affect the honour or dignity of the profession. That split-up could be much better than that. This morning, Mr De Caluwé also asked Mrs Schlitz about this. This needs to be looked at together with her and perhaps a solution has to be put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u2	In March, a fellow psychologist filed a complaint with the Psychologists Committee, which is responsible for the title and deontology of all psychologists in Belgium. According to the man, Ms. Katrien 'Kaat' Bollen takes down the credibility and dignity of the profession by placing so-called'sexually tinted' photos on her Instagram profile. Also directing a porn movie, presenting a burlesque show and mentioning the professional title in her webshop would undermine this. In the Chamber of Appeal, the disciplinary court of the Psychologists Committee ruled that her behaviour and sexually tinted photographs harm the profession and the other psychologists and she violated the deontological code. Moreover, the jury claims that by appealing and "showing itself in a conviction of her equal" other psychologists "draw into the same bath" and thus "the dignity of their profession is compromised and image damage occurs."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u3	At the beginning of January, Kaat Bollen decided to renounce her title as a psychologist. A colleague anonymously filed a complaint against her with the psychologists committee, which is competent for the award of professional titles of psychologists in our country. The Disciplinary Board investigated the complaint and convicted Kaat Bollen for violating the deontological code of the psychologists committee. She would have used her title as a psychologist to sell sex toys online. You hear it, it's a story of "would, would." Because the Disciplinary Board has little transparency. You can file a complaint, but you will not get any clarity on how and by whom it will be dealt with, nor on the final verdict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u4	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr De Caluwe, allow me first of all to state a number of legal elements. First of all, I think it would be useful to recall that the Psychologists' Committee is an organism established by the law of 8 November 1993 on the protection of the title of psychologist. Its main purpose is to protect the wearing of the title of psychologist. It is foreseen that no one may bear the title of psychologist if, in summary, he does not hold a degree issued by a Faculty of Psychology and does not appear on the list of psychologists kept by the Psychologists Committee. In addition, the legislator does not prohibit people from wearing the title of therapist or sexologist and providing psychological or sexual assistance in that context. Simply put, the client or patient seeking psychological assistance with a person bearing the title of psychologist has the guarantee that the person has received an ad hoc university education, is registered with the Psychologists' Commission and is subject to the disciplinary rules of the profession. The wearing of the title without respecting these conditions shall be punishable by criminal law. As regards the functioning of disciplinary bodies of the committee and their transparency, the Psychologists' Committee has been exercising disciplinary powers over its members since 2014. It has a Disciplinary Board and a Board of Appeal competent to take sanctions against psychologists registered with the Committee. These sanctions are the warning sanction given to Mrs Bollen, or the lightest sanction, suspension and deletion. An appeal may be brought against such decisions for infringement of the law or for infringement of essential or prescribed forms on the ground of nullity. It is also possible for the Attorney General to appeal to the Court in the interests of the law. The appeal in cassation shall suspend the contested judgment. In the present case, Mrs Bollen has not, as far as I know, made such an appeal. Thirdly, the doctrine of duties and disciplinary rules in themselves. Disciplinary rules are provided for because the legislator wanted to further professionalise the profession of psychologist, following the example of what was done for architects, doctors, real estate agents, lawyers and other liberal professions, exercised as self-employed, involving specific skills, quality services and a relationship of trust with the client. The control by colleagues in this area, through an independent disciplinary body and on the basis of government validated rules, is certainly not perfect but has proved its worth. Of course, that does not rule out the need for me as a guardian minister to be vigilant and to be attentive to the profession and society. The teaching of the duties of psychologists includes a set of ethical principles which are generally recognised by psychologists. It concerns, for example, the prohibition of mixing their assisting role with sexual relations and the creation of court reports on people they have never met or on professional secrecy. In the Kaat Bollen case in appeal, it is Articles 2 and 39 of the doctrine of obligations applied by the Disciplinary Board of Appeal. Article 2 provides that the purpose of the rules of the doctrine of duties is to protect the public, to preserve the dignity and integrity of the profession and to ensure the quality of the services performed by the holders of the title of psychologist. Article 39 provides that the psychologist may disclose his services, provided that he presents them objectively and in a dignified manner, without violating the reputation of his colleagues. He abstains from any colportage. He shall have the duty, if he mentions his titles and qualifications, his training, his experience, his competence, as well as his affiliation to a professional group, to do so correctly. I agree that these provisions are fairly general and that equivalent expressions are found in most of the duties of other professions, where the concepts of dignity and integrity of the profession are often used. The teachings of the Psychologists Committee were developed by the Committee, in consultation with the guardian minister, the Minister of Self-employed and SMEs, and confirmed in a royal decree submitted by the Council of Ministers. It concerns the Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 laying down the rules on the teaching of duties of the psychologist, which was amended in 2018 to specify that the psychologist, who is in possession of secrets entrusted to him by his State or profession, has been held to professional secrecy in accordance with Article 458 of the Criminal Code. In the Kaat Bollen case, it is the way in which the disciplinary powers of the Psychologists Committee were exercised by the disciplinary councils at first instance and in appeals that were criticised. As a guardian minister of the Psychologists' Committee, I cannot interfere in any particular individual procedure and may not publicly question a decision of one of these bodies. In fact, I would remind you that the disciplinary bodies of the order and institutions in respect of the executive have autonomy similar to that of the judiciary. That's what it's supposed to be in a rule of law. In addition, Mrs Bollen decided in this case to voluntarily surrender her title of psychologist, while she had received a warning, which does not automatically imply the obligation to withdraw the title. Her behavior wouldn't change Mrs. Bollen. Moreover, she may continue to pursue all her activities, but she may no longer hold the title of psychologist. Fourthly, as regards the transparency of the institutions, I can give you the following. The composition of the disciplinary chambers can be found on the website of the Psychologists Committee. You will find there the name, first name and capacity of all effective and alternate members. The Dutch-speaking professional chamber is currently chaired by a man, a lawyer of profession. His deputy is a woman. Furthermore, the room is composed of 2 female psychologists and 1 male psychologist. Judgments of the Disciplinary Board to the Board of Appeal shall take place in a public hearing. The hearings of the Disciplinary Board and the Board of Appeal shall be public, except in the cases provided for in Article 148 of the Constitution, or where the protection of private life or professional secrecy opposes public access, or where the person called upon to do so voluntarily and unequivocally renounce. The deliberations are classified. It is therefore the same rules that apply to our courts and tribunals. The website of the Psychologists' Committee also contains recurring themes of duty learning issues: the supervision of underage patients, publicity by psychologists and so on. Fifth, as regards the compatibility of the profession with another private or professional activity, a point is devoted on the same website to the pursuit of a professional activity other than that of a psychologist. Let us not forget that in this case Mrs Bollen is also a sexologist of training, which at least partly explains her presence on social media on issues related to sexuality. On the website of the Psychologists Committee, it is a priori clarified that there is no prohibition on combining an activity of psychologist with another professional activity, even if the latter is of a commercial nature. However, it is stressed that it is necessary to ensure that the combination of the activities envisaged is consistent with the ethical obligations and that the sets of principles of the doctrine of obligations are set out and explained. However, we must note that there is no explicit provision for private or professional activities which fall within the sexual sphere, such as the sale of objects, the making of films or the production of images of a sexual nature. However, in this respect the disciplinary bodies have the power to interpret and apply them. As Mr de Caluwé rightly pointed out, we must of course be vigilant about the way in which disciplinary bodies work and judge gender equality. However, this must be done taking into account the autonomy of the procedure and the independence of the body. Sixthly, we must review the doctrine of duties or even, more fundamentally, carry out a thorough evaluation of the Psychologists' Committee. Before I take any initiative for reform, I would therefore like to consult the professional federations and consult with the Minister of Health in order to remove the blockage. This consultation will take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u5	Minister, your answer was very thoroughly prepared and for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u6	Minister, although I personally believe that a psychologist should be able to do what she wants in her spare time, I am not primarily concerned here with Mrs Bollen or anyone else. I merely note that the untransparent way of working and a rather general regulation, as you yourself said, lead to the creation of different names that essentially offer the same service and rely on an equivalent diploma. It is also about something that people come to in confidence. One must be able to fully trust a psychologist, and that is why we need to look at the way in which this is handled. I do not think it is a healthy situation for us to have a division between psychologists and psychologists who are not called that, which seems to be the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u7	Minister, of course I agree that a psychologist must first of all have the right training to be able to practice his or her profession. That's obvious. Of course, deontology is also very important, so such a committee has its value and is also important for regulated professions. As far as the code of ethics is concerned, each professional sector actually determines for itself what exactly is to be understood by the dignity of the post or profession. That is a very vague concept, without a firm definition. However, society expects its interpretation to be consistent with what is considered socially acceptable today. There's a big problem there. The standards on the dignity of a profession evolve with time. I think that the Psychologists' Committee still has some work ahead of it in order to evolve with society, just like a number of other professional federations. As Mrs Jiroflée said, it is now about psychologists, but of course it is not about Kaat Bollen, but about the problem an sich. I fully agree with that. Let us also open that up to other professional committees. For me, it is important that everyone can be themselves: everyone must be who he or she wants to be, everyone has the right to express himself or herself and no one has the right to judge what a person does in his or her spare time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u8	Thank you for your very comprehensive reply, Minister. I certainly do not want to comment on the Kaat Bollen case itself or on the disciplinary committee. I'm sure it's important. However, I keep asking myself questions about the deontological code and I wonder if it still meets our current social reality. It also made clear how fragmented mental health care is. Maybe it's too cumbersome and can be looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u9	Mr President, Minister, since the start of the corona crisis, the number of electronic and contactless payments has increased considerably. It was therefore called upon to avoid as much contact as possible by paying with the card or smartphone. Many small traders then decided to offer electronic payments to their customers. However, comments received by the Inspector show that a number of traders are now asking their customers again to pay in cash. According to them, transaction costs are too high. I think this is because many traders are still stuck in an old tariff package that does not fit their company and so pays too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I am not quoting the coalition agreement, which would take a little too long. As Minister for Self-employed and SMEs, I do not intend to take initiatives in this area because it is not my direct competence. However, I will ensure that the interests of the self-employed and small traders are safeguarded if an initiative such as the UWE was to be re-launched in Parliament at government level in October 2019. On 20 October last, the High Council for the Self-employed and SMEs issued an opinion on your legislative proposal aimed at amending the Code of Economic Law so that each company would allow the consumer to pay electronically. Companies should always offer at least an electronic payment method to customers. The opinion shows that the Council is in favour of initiatives aimed at encouraging the simpler and cheaper development of electronic payment methods. It considers that there is a high potential for alternative payment methods for cash payments which is still underutilised. HRZKMO states that it is not in favour of an obligation for each trader to systematically offer electronic payment methods to the consumer. In practice, there are many arguments against this generalised obligation, just think of the traders who perform at home or the hypothesis where the system is far from a theoretical hypothesis. The cost of these means of payment is certainly falling, but it has to be paid anyway. The Economic Law Code prohibits companies from billing additional costs to consumers who wish to pay electronically. The imposition of this payment method would mean imposing costs on companies which they cannot pass on to their customers who decide to use it. Traders want to retain the choice as to the means of payment they offer. I'm sensitive to their arguments. Since 14 April 2020, the ceiling for contactless payments has been raised to 50 euros per transaction. Since this question falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection and the Minister for Economic Affairs, I invite you to question them on this point. I am certainly in favour of greater transparency in the tariff formula offered by operators to companies and of the possibility of regularly reviewing these contracts. The idea of imposing at least one electronic means of payment on companies for the benefit of consumers is often linked to the idea of imposing price comparability in order to provide companies with a comparative online tool such as for telecommunications services. That is the responsibility of Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u11	Thank you for the explanation, Minister. I understand that spontaneous opinions have already been received on my bill. This also means that it lives hugely. For the rest, I will have to put my questions to a number of other ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u12	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55013280C by Mr Anseuw. He is not present and his question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u13	Mrs Houtmeyers, access to finance is crucial for all SMEs. This access seems to be even more difficult when the manager is a woman. In this respect, I am waiting impatiently for the results of the evaluation of the law on the financing of SMEs, which will soon be delivered to me by the FPS Economy. The evaluation will include a gender component. I have already stated in my reply to Mrs Reuter and Mr Prévot that the issue of access for women entrepreneurs to bank or alternative funding is one of the priorities of my plan to support female entrepreneurship, which is being prepared. I note that among the selection criteria for the projects to be financed through the public contract........................................................................................................................................................................................ I am convinced that measures can be taken to improve women's access to venture capital. Mechanisms such as tax shelter and scale-up should be favoured by female managers. They should be formed and prepared, if necessary, to make use of that type of scheme. Networks that allow the recruitment and training of female business angels should be encouraged. The two sides of the coin must be developed to succeed. We must not focus solely on the development of female entrepreneurship. Those who take the risk of becoming business angels should also be encouraged, as should the recruitment of female business angels, with the expected effect of funding more innovative projects supported by women. It is also important that the female business angels participate in the board of directors of the start-ups they finance, in order to make their contribution to the part guidance. France has developed an inspiring project that establishes a female funding consortium of banks and public funding institutions, better known as SISTA, which explicitly focuses on female entrepreneurship. The aim is to promote equality between men and women in terms of access to investment funds and financial instruments. In particular, SISTA shall measure the place of gender in its members' portfolio. It's an interesting slope. Finally, at another level, I think it would be useful to raise awareness of the opportunities offered by microfinance for self-employed women. There are products at local level to meet this demand. Unfortunately, they are not used enough because they are not known enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u14	Minister, it seems interesting to me to return to this subject once you have received the report on the financing of the FPS Economy. We can evaluate it here. Perhaps after that you can also explain your other projects to promote female entrepreneurship in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u15	Mr Minister, since the introduction of my question, water has sank under bridges, but the issue remains relevant because sectors are still at a standstill as a result of health measures. The moratorium on bankruptcies has ended. The reform of the PRJ has not yet been voted in plenary. But in any case, the reform of the PRJ is not a sufficient response for the self-employed whose activity is still at a standstill. We were able to hear from many representatives of the independents during the hearings we conducted last month. We've heard poignant testimonies. The independents continue to alert us because the more time passes, the worse the situation worsens. Until recently, we have been able to read testimonies in the press. For example, a restorer explained that direct aid, at all levels of power, represented barely 30% of its fixed costs. Incomprehension with respect to different treatment from one Region to another is very strong. I could also tell you about the difficult relationships with banks and insurers who don't play the game. Finally, my question will be very simple: what initiatives do you intend to take to provide additional support to self-employed people whose activity is still at a standstill? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u16	Mr President, I had planned to answer the six questions, but I am going to be short. On the subject of the revision of the procedure for judicial reorganization, whose law should be adopted in the next few days in plenary, you have already received the reply of my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne. On this subject, he and I are on the same wavelength. It should provide concrete support to SMEs in difficulty and help to clarify their financial situation. At the federal level, a series of support measures are in force and were extended, by decision of the Council of Ministers on 26 February, until the end of June 2021, resulting in a total additional contribution of EUR 2 billion. These include extending payment deferrals, harmonising temporary unemployment and continuing to grant the new double bridge right to self-employed persons who are forced to discontinue their employment. There are also other aid measures: the extension of the moratoriums on appropriations in 2021, the period of deferment of payments for loans to undertakings until 30 June. For all healthy companies that have already exhausted their nine-month moratorium, the sector is committed to finding individual solutions. There is also a tax exemption for regional and local aid. There is the reactivation of the SME tax shelter until August 2021. There is the creation of a transformation fund of 750 million to strengthen the solvency of companies. There is a deferral period for insurance premiums for periods up to June 30, 2021. We also have the tax reduction for cancelled rents. Owners are encouraged by tax to cancel all or part of the March to May rents for buildings they rent in areas that have had to close. The amounts of rent cancelled could be taken into account up to 30% by a tax reduction. Finally, there is the abolition of the system of advances 21 in order to provide companies with sufficient liquidity room in 21, the December advances for the business discount and VAT will be charged to the following financial year. Here's a summary of my six answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for these various elements. I would like to draw your attention to two points. Health measures shall be decided upon in the consultation committee. In the case of standstill business support measures, it would be good if there was also a consultation between the federal and federated entities to try to harmonize things. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since the beginning of the health crisis, some sectors have been doing very well and have even made more benefits than at the beginning of the health crisis. If they were able to make these profits, it was also because others, such as Horeca, had to sacrifice themselves so that others could continue. Solidarity must therefore be organised so that those who have been able to continue their activity and make profits can help those who have been forced to stop. I therefore believe that there should be an exceptional tax on profits in order to set up a fund that would increase aid to small-scale self-employed people in great difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u18	Mr President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. Transform 55015146C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u19	That's what happened on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u20	The pig sector is in turbulent waters. The outbreak of African swine fever in boars led to an export ban from our pork to the important Asian markets and thus affected domestic pig farming. Afterwards, swine fever was also observed in Germany, which led to a downward pressure on prices and significantly reduced sales. Belgium has now been declared free of swine fever and should be able to restart exports to non-EU countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u21	Mr President, my answer is ten pages, so I propose to send it to you immediately. A summary is difficult, but the conclusion is as follows. For some time now, the Spaniards have been re-exporting pork to China. It is an open door for the Chinese market, which gives oxygen to the entire European market. So it's a glimmer of hope for this market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u22	Minister, I look forward to the ten pages I will receive from you. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u23	Minister, I won't be very long. You have already answered other questions on the subject. When you presented your policy note, you announced support for women's entrepreneurship and a public procurement to support women's entrepreneurship projects. I wanted to know if you had any more information. What are the conditions for participating in this public procurement? What steps will be taken? What will be the selection process? I don't know if you can give me any answers yet. Otherwise, I will come back with this question later. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u24	Mrs Reuter, Mr Prévot and Mrs Verhelst, to answer the various general questions on this initiative, women's entrepreneurship is all the more important to me as the covid crisis which has affected our economy as a whole has an even more specific impact on women entrepreneurs. These impacts require appropriate responses, particularly in terms of access to finance and the necessary balance between family and work life. That is why I have taken the initiative to launch, with the support of DG SME Policy, a public procurement to support projects for female entrepreneurship that have suffered from the covid crisis. This market is intended for networks which intend to make a specific contribution to the development of female entrepreneurship. Four projects are selected, corresponding to four lots of €70,000 each. There is a lot for each of the regions, and a lot that will have a national scale. To answer Ms. Verhelst's question, the lot in the Brussels Region and the lot with a national dimension are bilingual. The information on the FPS Economy website is accurate in this regard. Each project will have to be implemented in different phases and will span three years, 2021, 2022 and 2023. All information on this procurement has been published on the SPF Economie website. Emphasis is also placed on sectors that are particularly affected, such as Horeca, arts and entertainment, and recreational services. To answer questions on the conditions of participation, on the applications received, this contract was launched in early February and closed on 3 March. First, it is necessary to be selected in the first stage of the public procurement, as a project promoter meeting the requirements laid down. Sixteen applications were submitted to the Federal Public Procurement Portal. The SPF Economy is currently considering its admissibility and the selection on this issue will have to be completed by the end of the current month. As it is customary to do for a public procurement, a forum of questions has been planned. This public contract was a priority, taking into account the crisis situation and its impact on women entrepreneurs. In addition to this project, the promotion of female entrepreneurship is one of my priorities for this legislature. Women are still underrepresented in Belgian companies. I want to help change that. Of all self-employed persons who were members of a social insurance fund in 2019, 35% were female and 65% were male, or 401,112 female and 743,903 male self-employed persons, including drivers. However, for start-ups, the proportion of women is highest: 37% is a woman and 63% is a man. The sectors with the largest number of start-ups in 2019 were industry, the liberal professions and trade. In addition, a study by the FPS Economy shows that the sectors in which female self-employed workers are most present include 35% and more of the sectors most affected by the covid crisis. At least 51,71 % of self-employed women are engaged in activities in the four categories of activity most affected by the crisis. In the coming weeks I will communicate about a plan 2021-2024 for female entrepreneurship. In support of public policy, I will aim in this plan to provide gender-divided data for all economic and social indicators relevant to women. I pay particular attention to improving women's access to the financing of their projects as entrepreneurs. I want to involve the banking world and business angels in the policy. It is also necessary to collect reliable figures on the access of female entrepreneurs to all forms of financing, including banks, business angels, venture capitalists and public funds and, if necessary, to take the necessary measures to facilitate access to them. Moreover, the inclusion of women in the digital revolution is also an important challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. You keep your promises as you announced several projects. It's a matter of interest to you and to me. The reconciliation between private and professional life is essential to increase the number of women entrepreneurs and the employment rate of women in general. We will follow your presentations as well as all the projects that are in place. We will see if we can make sure that there is no more one in three independent women but a parity. That would be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Ms de Laveleye's 55013772C will be converted into a written question. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55013904C by Mr Patrick Prévot. We have no news of him, his question lapses. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55014037C, 55014042C, 55014128C and 55014166C by Mrs Jadin and 55014100C by Mrs Dierick are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u27	Many sectors still face the consequences of the coronapandemic. The fairground sector is no exception, although there are a number of specific factors that require understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u28	Mr President, Minister, in the meantime there is a slight difference in nuance. Since this weekend it is clear that fairgrounds could open on 1 May 2021. So they don't open simultaneously with the amusement parks. I would have liked to have some additional explanation about that. Why can't we do this at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u29	Minister, we are all aware of the facilitations or prospects announced by the Consultation Committee of 5 March 2021. We have indeed noted that the amusement parks will open on 1 April 2021 and fairgrounds will be re-approved as of 1 May 2021. I know that today, if all went well, you had a meeting with the Federation of Carnivals. They have expressed a number of concerns about this. One of those concerns is very clear. They regret that the fairgrounds are not allowed to resume their activities until a month after the amusement parks, although they have drawn up a lot of roadmaps that allow them to say that they can guarantee a safe reopening. I would have liked to have heard from you, Minister, what was the outcome of this discussion this morning. What conclusions have you drawn from this as a minister? What constructive proposals you have heard from their side today will you take to the Council of Ministers? I would also have liked to hear from you why amusement parks should open earlier than the fairgrounds? What is the basis of this decision? In the wake of your discussion this morning at the Council of Ministers, will you plead for equal reopening?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr Van Lommel, your questions are all about issues relating to the prospects of reopening sectors affected by the crisis. My answer will be a little longer, because we will discuss in detail the situation of the various sectors of agriculture, commerce and the catering industry. First of all, I would like to say once again that I am aware of the difficulties facing the various sectors. I'm in permanent contact with them to answer their questions. Despite the health situation, we are trying to find solutions for reopening as soon as possible, ensuring a high level of sanitary safety. As long as it is not yet possible to reopen, I have obtained from the government that all economic aid measures are maintained. The carnival sector has been stationary since 1 November and has subsequently been subject to severe restrictions since the resumption after the first lockdown in 2020. We all remember the great disappointment of the sector by the last minute cancellation of the Zuidfoor in August last year. The sector has regularly asked to be treated on an equal footing with the amusement parks. You will have noticed that last Friday's Consultation Committee, starting on 1 April, wants to allow the open-air reopening of amusement parks, just for the outdoor attractions. As far as the epidemiological situation will permit and depending on the pressure on hospitals and the progress of the vaccination campaign, the Consultation Committee considered that other measures relating to outdoor activities could be launched from 1 May, including outpatient trade, annual markets, brocantes, flea markets and Christmas markets, with the exception of major events. Those differences in treatment were justified by the fact that fairgrounds are one-off events that take place in public space, in different forms and sizes. The arrangements for monitoring and managing crowds should therefore be adjusted each time. This is different for the amusement parks, which have a permanent place and work in a standardised way. Therefore, fairgrounds are treated as events that raise a crowd and are considered risky from a health point of view. With regard to the questions of the sectors, they are particularly concerned about the conditions for re-starting and want to have sufficient information before re-starting. They already have a guide that was applied during the first exit. This guide is a good starting point to meet the ten commandments of the coronac Commissioner to validate a new protocol for rebooting. I asked the Coronac Commission to organise a working meeting with the sector and to analyse their questions from a health perspective. I will defend a restart on the Consultation Committee under conditions that are safer for health and more economically viable for the sector. I would like to tell you that I myself received several representatives from the sector with whom I met this morning. As long as these sectors do not work, the self-employed who operate in these sectors are entitled to a double bridging right until they can resume their activities. As soon as they resume their activities, they shall be entitled to the single bridging right if they can demonstrate a loss of turnover of at least 40% in the month preceding the month in which the application is submitted, compared to the same month in 2019. For the rest, the paid-off plans at federal level for the social contribution, VAT and so on remain. The logic behind the restriction to shop alone is the one you mention in your question, namely the restriction of fun shopping. Globally, it is also about limiting the number of reasons for moving in public space, public transport and so on. I was made aware by the sector of their desires to expand the possibility and allow people to shop with the two of them. I understand that in some cases it is more pleasant and even more useful to be accompanied by another person, to help in choosing clothing or other products. You also asked for my personal opinion. Personally, I will not defend this option because it is important for both types of activity to reopen. The two sectors will be subject to the same health requirements. From an economic perspective, cafes and bars have also enjoyed the take-away measures, albeit less than the restaurants. From a legal and administrative point of view, it is also difficult to distinguish clearly between these types of activity, which would make it difficult to control. Finally, it is not really justified, because 85% of the operators have a BFSA licence. It's just urgent time for the whole sector to reopen. That, Mr. Chairman, is a summary of my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u31	Minister, that was a very concise answer. I expected more details, though. Specifically for the fairground sector but also in general, it will be very important to check which measures work and which measures do not work. For example, the measure relating to shopping with two is absolutely absurd and does not work. It is also absolutely important that the objective basis is correct and that the population can understand that basis. The more difficult it can understand the basis, the more difficult it will be for both the population and the entrepreneurs to explain the measure. We must therefore remain vigilant, ensure that the measures are well-founded and check which ones are working; we must not taffle about them for months. For the fairs there was also talk about the number of people who may be present at a fair and the number of persons per one and a half meters. In this respect, we must take into account the area of the square and the size of the fairground. We must not limit ourselves to, for example, 200 carnival visitors. I did not receive an answer to my question on current costs, such as insurance or SABAM. Furthermore, I did not get an answer to my question as to how the reopening of the catering industry would be dealt with, whether there was a plan of action and what measures the catering industry operators would have to comply with. In the Netherlands there is talk of opening the terraces around Easter, because it is considered that there will be less training in urban parks and everything will be much more controlled. I fear that we will once again have unfair competition in our Easter holidays, for example on the coast. So I'm gonna stay with a lot of unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u32	Minister, we both agree that health is a priority, but when action is taken, we must also dare to look at its proportionality. I was always and still advocated to talk to as many sectors as possible, to listen to what lives with them. You have had a meeting with representatives of the carnival industry today, but I do not have the impression that that was to listen to the sector, but rather to appease it. After all, you come back with the classic measures, such as the right of bridging, while there is a different concern there today. You say that the fairgrounds are not the same as amusement parks, because they are not standardized and are only temporary. I wonder if you have read the protocol and the roadmap, because the sector is absolutely ready. The necessary sanitary measures have been adopted, making it absolutely possible to work safely. I therefore ask again where the objective criteria are. What do you make of the claim that the fairgrounds can only open a month later than the amusement parks? We are having the same discussion again and you cannot really answer it. You have hardly said anything about the conversation you had with the Federation today, although my question was mainly about that, which I regret. So I have to conclude that you apparently didn't take anything from your conversation today. I deeply regret that, Minister. What you have said here today cannot be explained to the outside world, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u33	Mrs. Dierick is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u34	Minister, farmers and growers are regularly confronted with commercial practices which they regard as unbalanced and unfair. Examples of unfair commercial practices include unclear contract terms, sudden or unjustified cancellation of orders or termination of contracts, forced payment for promotion and/or advertising costs, unexplained rejection of products and forced withdrawal of unsold products.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u35	Mr. Secretary, a lot of farmers sell their products below cost. When my Flemish colleagues interview the Flemish Minister of Agriculture about these practices, she always refers to the transposition of the European directive 2019/633 on unfair commercial practices. The transposition of this directive into federal law is necessary in order to address the practices in our country that farmers have to sell their products below cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u36	Mrs Verhelst is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u37	As a federal minister responsible for agriculture, I think it is fundamental that our farmers should be able to enjoy proper remuneration. This is a necessity to ensure the survival of this sector, which is under severe pressure from the whims of the climate, the globalisation of markets, the emergence of new diseases affecting plants and animals and so on. Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in the relationship between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain provides for measures to protect natural or legal persons producing or processing agricultural and food products, including agricultural producers and their associations. The transposition law should enter into force in November 2021. This draft has already been the subject of bilateral meetings with many actors in the sector. The commitment was made to shortly submit the finalised preliminary draft law, including the transposition options, to the chain consultation uniting all relevant actors for advice. I have no doubt that this debate will be successful and constructive and that it will allow the government to take a final position on this transposition option. Among the issues to be resolved in the context of transposition, the determination of the supervisory authority is indeed an important point. After analysis it appears that the economic inspection is best placed at this stage of the talks. In order to ensure consistency, the level of sanctions will be aligned with the system applicable to infringements of the same nature in the Code of Economic Law. The supply chain consultation Agrofood should be an instrument allowing fair relations between suppliers and customers. As I announced in my general policy statement, I intend to make greater use of the FPS Economy Prize Observatory by asking them for precise data on profit margins. My intention is to provide the various actors in the agri-food chain with a margin for consultation and approval that guarantees a fair income for each operator, from production to distribution. The whole of these mechanisms will form the basis of the new draft agricultural price bill provided for in the government agreement. I am also very attentive to the evolution of the negotiations on free trade agreements with the various third countries. These agreements must be concluded with respect for the level playing field and therefore take account of social standards so as not to harm our producers. Advertising about meat and meat-based products is not a problem in itself. The underlying problem according to the sector is rather the advertising of the sale with loss of these products which are often considered pure decoy products. The solution already exists in Belgium's existing legislative arsenal, namely the ban on selling at a loss. It is therefore up to the injured party to charge these practices and bring them to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u38	Minister, you say that the preliminary draft is almost ready and will be presented in the chain talks. I had asked, among other things, when these texts will also be submitted to Parliament. There would be enough room and time to discuss this with us in the Chamber. I'm counting on it. You also say that you will call on the Economic Inspectorate for monitoring. They are already being asked for a lot of things, so hopefully they will have enough people and resources to do so. You also say that you will use the Prize Observatory more often. That is a good thing. Measuring is knowing, eventually. This is how evolution can be watched. Mr Dermagne is more reluctant to do so. I have often asked him questions about this, but he is rather reluctant about it. It's good to use him to get an overview there anyway. I fully agree with your statement that farmers should be properly compensated. However, we must not fall into too much black and white thinking. It is not the good versus the bad guys, where the good guys are the farmers and the bad guys are the retail. Today, for example, I have read a very nice testimony from farmers whose market in the catering industry had completely disappeared because of the lockdown. They have been given an opportunity by the Colruyt Group to offer their products to them. Thanks to this opportunity, they were able to bridge this period well. Such cooperation is a good example of how it can be done. You also referred to free trade agreements. I assume that you referred to the Mercosur agreement, among other things. Such agreements are very important for an open economy like ours. One job in three in our country depends on that. I agree that we should look at a possible caveat. With regard to Mercosur, I understand that when it comes to agriculture, especially sugar and beef, other agro-industry sectors would have a lot of advantages. We have heard the Commissioner and others in the Committee on External Relations about this. There are talks with Mercosur countries now to see how these concerns, including sustainability, can be addressed. Minister, I hope that we in Parliament will be informed in good time of the texts as they are now on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u39	Minister, I had a very specific question about advertising for the sale of meat at a loss. You say that those who feel disadvantaged must complain themselves. We hope that we will be able to act proactively, that we will not simply wait for complaints to be made and that we will also be able to act on our own initiative when it is clear that there is advertising for sale at a loss.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u40	Mr President, I assume that Question No 3 on female entrepreneurship was dealt with by at least one of my two colleagues who had joined the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u41	Yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u42	All right. This one's falling. On Question No 55013904C on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council of the European Union of 25 January, I refer to my question as tabled. The minister will be able to answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u43	Mr Prévot, to answer your first two questions, at the Council of European Ministers for Agriculture, the Commission presented us with an overview of the trade negotiations concluded and under way with the United Kingdom, Mercosur, the United States, China, the WTO and Africa. Agricultural exports continued well despite the pandemic and even increased. Member States welcomed the agreement with the United Kingdom but stressed the need for appropriate follow-up. The Mercosur agreement continues to cause reluctance among agriculture ministers. In addition, Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski presented the main conclusions of the update of the study on the cumulative impact of agricultural concessions. Member States asked for further discussion at a later stage. The Portuguese Presidency also presented an update on the CAP reform by providing information on the trialogue. In addition, Croatia informed the Council of the damage caused by the earthquake to agriculture and called for support measures in Croatia. Finally, a very large number of delegations, including Belgium, called for the activation of support measures for the pig sector, which is experiencing difficulties. The Commission has not yet granted them, but is monitoring the situation closely. On your third question, concerning relations with the United States, several delegations, including Belgium, have seen opportunities in cooperation with the new Biden administration. France and Spain were concerned about the levies on wine and olive oil, but on 8 and 9 February the Member States and the European Parliament approved the Commission's draft delegated regulation which will allow the exceptional market measures of 2020 for the wine sector to continue in 2021. These measures are intended to help the sector cope with the effects of the covid-19 pandemic and the latest US sanctions resulting from the dispute between Airbus and Boeing. You see that in agriculture, we are also talking about things other than purely agricultural aspects. According to Dombrovskis, the European Commissioner for Trade, the likelihood of a positive engagement with the new US administration is very high. The European Union's proposal at the moment is to withdraw customs duties related to the Airbus-Boeing conflict on both sides, or at least suspend them for six months. Finally, with regard to your fourth question, the Joint Research Centre's study on the cumulative impact of agricultural concessions in trade agreements includes trade agreements concluded and to come and compares the situation without and with agreements. In general, the study shows that trade agreements lead to more food exports. There will be more exports especially for pork, milk, beverages and tobacco. Imports will also increase for substances containing oil, beef and poultry. The study forecasts an increase in prices for pork and cheese and a decrease of 2% for beef and sheep. The Commission concludes that the agricultural sector can benefit from trade. In general, agriculture ministers expressed concerns about equal opportunities, respect for health standards for imported products, reciprocity in trade agreements. In addition, there were also votes to ensure that free trade was not called into question. Some Member States felt that the scope of the study was too limited and felt that non-tariff barriers and green deal should also be taken into account in the reflection. Here, Mr. Prévot, the synthesis of what has been exchanged at this summit of agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic405x.u44	Minister, thank you for your snapshot of the situation and for your scrupulous response to the four questions I asked you. It is true that I still like to have the situation of discussions at the Agriculture Summits, especially because I am very interested in this subject and I was following it in my other life when I was a regional member of Parliament. I understand that the Mercosur agreement continues to pose many questions and problems, which is logical as this agreement raises real concerns at different levels. I am pleased to hear that Belgium was carrying out measures to support the pig sector, which have not yet been examined, if I understand correctly. It is important to maintain pressure because the industry faces real difficulties. I think we need to give him answers. For the rest, I will not fail to return to you systematically at these summits to have the temperature of these discussions.
