ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the waste of food, but also of essential non-food products, is rightly given the necessary attention. This attention has grown in recent years. It is important that we encourage consumers to avoid waste as much as possible. It is therefore important that we make it easier for companies to make food donations. Unfortunately, it turns out that the administration associated with such food donations is often complex and difficult, especially the VAT administration. As a result, there are several individual food companies, especially the smaller ones, which refrain from donating their food surpluses. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of this problem? Can administrative processes be simplified, for example by providing administrative support to businesses to facilitate the delivery of goods? Are you thinking of launching a awareness campaign? My final question is a very important one in the context of administrative simplification. It is now the case that approval must be obtained at each food gift. Is it possible to give one-off approval to a company for donations to a specific organisation so that it does not have to re-apply for approval at each donation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u2	Mrs Van Bossuyt, on the first part of your question, I would not like to speak on behalf of the Minister for Finance. Nevertheless, I am well aware of the administrative complexity that some small retail shops and even large supermarkets can face when they want to make a donation to an association. A few years ago, a favourable VAT regime was introduced for certain goods supplied by taxable persons, generally large shops, for charitable purposes, in particular foodstuffs and other essential goods which cannot be used permanently. As far as possible, the need to reduce administrative burdens has been taken into account in the preparation of the dossiers. It is therefore permissible to replace the document, to be drawn up in principle at each donation, with a summary document on a monthly basis. However, the FPS Finance stresses that it is still essential to have all the necessary information on any donation to combat abuse and fraud. These documentary obligations may seem cumbersome. According to the FPS Finance, they ensure efficient control of the donation and distribution of goods for the benefit of people in need. Otherwise, I invite you to address the Minister of Finance who will be better able to provide you with details of this process. However, the Minister for Finance and I remain attentive to this situation. Moreover, the Administrative Simplification Service (DAV) has also announced that it is open to reflection on this issue and to finding ways to facilitate the donation of food and/or non-food, taking into account the essential control measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, the more favourable VAT regime already exists. By the way, we have tabled a proposal to also change income taxes in order to combat food waste by making donations easier and more tax-friendly. You say that it is important to submit a summary document on a monthly basis in order to prevent abuse and to discuss this further with your colleague in the finance department. Yes, we will. I will certainly also use the option that the DAV is open to simplifications. We will be very happy to contact the service to see how we can administratively simplify food donations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u4	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the death of a child, partner or parent has a major emotional impact on the next of kin. Moreover, after the first shock to cope with the loss, the next of kin are almost immediately confronted with the administrative mill associated with the loss. Several bodies should be informed: employer, Federal Pension Service, notary, health insurance fund, banks, insurance companies and utilities. That brings with it extra paperwork. So that is an administrative gag, which unfortunately also confronts the next of kin on top of his or her grief. Digitisation is progress in many cases. However, it is striking that after a death the digital administration has the opposite effect. Accounts are blocked for several months until all administrative checks have taken place. The identity card of the deceased partner should be issued almost immediately, so that the next of kin can no longer obtain tax and/or other documents. Nor is it possible to complete the joint tax return via digital means, since at the end of the procedure the taxable person has to sign digitally. Because of the administrative maze, interest groups have often asked to work on a central hotline. Mr Secretary of State, will you work with your competent federal colleagues, possibly extended to the Flemish colleagues, to simplify the administrative procedure for dealing with the survivors? Will you work on a point of contact, in which all administrative acts can be centralised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties of next of kin, who not only grieve for the death of a loved one, but also suffer from complex administrative procedures, are certainly to my heart's mind. We must be able to simplify the lives of our citizens and, therefore, administrative procedures, particularly at painful times of death, in compliance with the GDPR laws and regulations. Several initiatives have already been taken in recent years to this end. Since mid-2006, a third party appointed by the next of kin, such as the undertaker, has been able to report a death. Since 2007, most bank accounts can be released more quickly on the basis of a certificate of inheritance. That certificate shall be issued by the local registration office and shall be free of charge. That way, accounts can be released within a week. The Declaration of Inheritance replaces the notarial act. Reporting the death of a disabled person to DG Han is now automatic. The registration of a death in the National Register has also been automatic since 2012. The issuing of the Certificate of Inheritance through the National Registry has accelerated: since 1 September 2011, any citizen may, after declaration of death of an deceased person to an official of civil status, to the notary or, in the context of an application for a Certificate of Inheritance, receive free information from a Registrar of the FPS Finance about whether or not there is a will. Similarly, since 2013, requests for information to the FPS Finance and Registrys can be made directly by electronic means. The real improvement in administrative simplification dates from 2019 with the digitisation of all civil status records, which has greatly simplified citizens' lives, especially in difficult times. It has become much easier to obtain an extract from a death certificate or a copy of it. Those extracts or copies may be requested by direct heirs at home and shall be issued online and with legal effects. So it is no longer necessary to go to the municipality, which issued the death certificate. Subject to the GDPR and the privacy law, the DAV investigates various possibilities for administrative simplification, such as the automatic exchange of data in case of removal or death between the National Registry and service providers or the use of the national number and the National Registry data by the banking and insurance sector. The creation of a single information point could also be examined by the DAV. However, it is important to point out that a large number of formalities now fall within the competence of the Regions, such as funeral arrangements, cremation and certificate of succession.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard your list of all kinds of achievements. Apparently that is not so clear to the interest group, because the need is high. For years, people have been asking for a point where everything is centralized. You're talking about the undertaker, who handles a number of cases. You say that business with banks can also progress faster. In practice, however, this is not the case. Survivors must wait four to six months before the accounts are released. You say that the matter will be examined; I hope that this will be done. Everyone is faced with loss and mourning sooner or later. Sound administrative support should nevertheless be available. In the grief one sometimes no longer sees the forest through the trees. People are often also in financial trouble. The least that can be done is to provide a central hotline to make it easier in practice for the next of kin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with the previous speaker and would like to believe that much has already happened, but unfortunately I experienced it myself last year and the practice is anything but what you have outlined. It's been months at the banks. It was a procession of Echternach, in which the digital certificates were absolutely no solution. I had to take care of that instead of my mom. Fortunately, she has a daughter, but if she had to do it alone, like many people when they lose their husbands, that would never have worked out. In reality, someone who is in mourning really does not feel helped in that regard today. One encounters situations that one no longer sees the logic of. I therefore support the call for this to be taken up again. A central point could certainly be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, as Members of Parliament we sometimes do not know the answer to certain questions, but we have the opportunity to ask you what has already happened. An ordinary citizen does not have that possibility and indeed needs to look for days to see what exists. No one claims that nothing is happening, no one says that things have been improved, but everything is fragmented. One has to figure it all out. For example, not all banks provide the right information. Some even block current orders for accounts, which is not supposed to be. No one knows where to go. That's what this is about. The information is fragmented and therefore one does not know what to arrange. I would therefore like to join with the question, supported by a majority and opposition, in order to at least address a central information point on the website, where all the information is offered bundled. Of course, certain powers lie with the regions, which have their own websites. One can perfectly refer to each other's website, as is already happening today, for example in the area of social rights. Digitally everything can be linked together, but then it is offered on one website. The website should also provide a telephone number where anyone who has any questions can contact. You must also ensure that as much information as possible automatically reaches the people who have lost a loved one so that they do not have to look for that information themselves. I think it is a good thing that you want to participate in further automation in this area. In the very short term, however, it would only be logical for you to provide at least a central information point, where people can go both digitally and by telephone. We can work perfectly with the regions for this. Wouter Beke, Flemish Minister of Welfare, is already working on such an information point. There is already some information on the Flemish website, but that information is also insufficient and incomplete. That problem has already been raised. It is really necessary for us to move forward in this direction. Anyone can contribute to this, including you, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic435x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Secretary of State for Digitisation, responsible for Administrative Simplification, Privacy and the Government of the Buildings, - in view of the current problems of mourning leave and, by extension, the administrative and financial malle mill in which the survivors end up; - having regard to the fact that interest groups have been asking for a central hotline for years; requests the Government, - provide specific support measures for this target group, - to create a point of contact where all administrative activities for the next of kin are centralised.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Secretary of State for Digitalisation, responsible for administrative simplification, privacy protection and the Régie des Bâtiments, - in view of the current problem of bereavement leave and by extension to the administrative and financial harassment faced by the family member or relatives; - in view of the fact that associations defending the interests of the persons concerned have been calling for the establishment of a central window for years; asks the government, - provide for specific accompanying measures for this target group; - to set up a central window to carry out all the administrative procedures of the relatives following a death." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
