ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u2	Voters 107 Stemmen White or invalid 6 Blank or invalid Valid 101 Geldig Two-thirds majority 68 Two-thirds majority Mr. Vincent Eechaudt obtained 14 votes. Mr Vincent Eechaudt received 14 votes. M. Bart De Temmerman a obtenu 87 voix. Mr Bart De Temmerman has received 87 votes. Mr. Bart De Temmerman, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Bart De Temmerman, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u3	Voters 107 Stemmen White or invalid 5 Blank or invalid Valid 102 Geldig Absolute majority 52 Perfect majority M. Björn Bullynck a obtenu 2 voix. Mr Björn Bullynck received two votes. Mr. Frank Judo obtained 90 votes. Mr Frank Judo received 90 votes. Ms. Sarah Scheepers obtained 10 votes. Mrs Sarah Scheepers received 10 votes. Mr. Frank Judo, having obtained 90 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Since Mr Frank Judo received 90 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u4	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: André Flahaut, Laurence Zanchetta, Malik Ben Achour, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix, Hervé Rigot, Karin Jiroflée, Vicky Reynaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u5	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1815/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1815/4) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to make the vaccine against VOCID-19 a global public health good accessible financially to all". The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a resolution calling for the COOVID-19 vaccine to be made available to a global public that is financially accessible to all." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The reporters are Mrs Vanpeborgh and Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u6	I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u7	Patents or making the COOVID-19 vaccine financially accessible for everyone is a very interesting dossier, which we have also had very interesting hearings on. The start was the opposite of the outcome. If we go back in history, we have to find that the PVDA had put forward a proposal in committee that was based on their ideology. You have heard it in the discussion of the recommendations of the special covid committee, the nickname of our colleague's favourite word is big pharma. Their proposal for a resolution was therefore based on the fact that big pharma, the pharmaceutical industry, had made too much profit with the covid vaccines and that the vaccines should therefore be accessible to everyone. We fully agree that covid vaccines should be accessible to everyone. However, we can no longer disagree on the ideological interpretation of this. Then, however, a proposal from the PS was made that was linked to the PVDA's proposal. After a round of arm wrestling we would eventually work on the proposal of colleague Flahaut. All the hearings were therefore based on the two texts that were submitted. We have passed those hearings, we have asked questions and we have drawn conclusions. Then suddenly there was the discussion of an amendment by the Vivaldimpere, again a completely new text. Colleagues, when we talk about Vivaldi and patents, we should, like on Facebook, check the box "It's complicated." After all, it's complicated. Are we now in favour of lifting those intellectual property rights or against? Or are we all gonna work in a pool together or not? It's complicated. We're not reaching an agreement. We don't have a vision, that's basically what it's all about. In this proposal for a resolution, the COVAX initiative is prominent. This should ensure that vaccines are brought to low-income countries. Currently 43.7% of the world's population have received a first vaccine, which is only 2% in low-income countries. COVAX is a beautiful and noble initiative, which my group certainly supports. It was strange, however, that the majority sent her cat to the Committee on External Relations when we held a hearing there with those responsible for COVAX. Mr Merckx and I ourselves have a completely opposite ideology, but we both support the accessibility of the vaccine to everyone. Although we are both members of the opposition, it seems that we were the only ones able to free ourselves from this important discussion. In a second round, the other colleagues eventually took part in the hearing. Our group's vision is very clear, innovation and the use of the pharmaceutical industry have ensured that one year after the outbreak of the crisis, we already had access to vaccines to get out of the covid harness. Today we can breathe again, especially in Flanders because there was a great vaccination willingness. Gradually, we evolve towards more freedom; The debate in the hearings was very emotional, when we should fall back on the facts. At the heart of the matter is the availability of vaccines worldwide. But to get these vaccines, we also need the raw materials, the production sites, the technological knowledge and the cooperation between companies. One of the examples is the cooperation between AstraZeneca and the SII in India, which means that there is an expansion of those production sites. There is therefore a need to switch and production sites should be facilitated. The representative of the EEA has made it clear that many compatibility studies are needed to start a new production line. That is also why the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India does not appear here on the covid certificate. A lot of compatibility studies are needed, it doesn't just happen. Johnson & Johnson also stated that it looked for production sites, but that it did not find them because of the need for raw materials, skilled staff and technological knowledge. It has been said very often in the debates by colleagues that a vaccine is too expensive for the low-income countries. Meanwhile, there are several. However, we have heard very well in the hearings that the pharmaceutical companies, which are big pharma, as colleagues call them, want to work with a stepped-up system of pricing. They therefore adjust their price for low-income countries. When we talk about COVAX, it is a pain for the Belgian Government. We will donate our surplus vaccines to the COVAX initiative. Of course, that's very noble. I asked the representative of COVAX if we had bought them too expensive, if we would have had 4 million more vaccines for them if we had allowed the low-income countries themselves to buy those vaccines? The answer was yes. We could have thought of that. When we talk about big pharma, which my colleagues are so keen to refer to, I would like to make a point. I have just said that we live in other worlds. For us, profit, through which employees are paid, guaranteeing prosperity for a society, guaranteeing innovation, progress and science, is not a dirty word. I am sure that all workers in Puurs who work for Pfizer do not think that is a dirty word either, because they live on it and, like all citizens, they have commitments, but they have to be paid for their work. They are paid with that profit. The pharmaceutical sector in our country guarantees 100,000 direct jobs. The pharmaceutical technology stands for one in four patent applications. You say that's a dirty word, but they do offer guarantees for the future, for innovation. Let us look at the substance of the proposal before us. There's about 13 requests in there. The first request is that we call for vaccines to be considered as global public health goods and accessible to all. We are going to advocate this at the United Nations, at the World Trade Organisation and at the European Union. We have been advocating this for a few months now. Have we received an answer in the meantime? Have any steps been taken? How many vaccines have we been able to give to patients worldwide? That really isn't the answer. I have just spoken about equal, affordable and quick access to the solution of the price steps. Much more than one prize for the whole world is equal treatment. We are also going to call for negotiations within the EU. Now, today, at the end of September 2021, we are going to argue in favour of starting negotiations. We should have done that a long time ago. If we are really convinced, we should have done so a long time ago. We also want to encourage voluntary cooperation among ourselves. You all know, or anyone who has followed the hearings, that Moderna has the voluntary licence allocation. The company grants its license voluntarily to companies wishing to produce the vaccine. How many vaccines have already been rolled off the tape through this voluntary licensing? That'll be zero. It's not a success. It's not working. There is no access to raw materials, technological knowledge and skilled personnel. We will support COVAX. We want to be a pioneer in all national and international fora. We will also examine how we can mobilise international funds. However, in the motion for a resolution before us, I do not see at all who will pay for these funds. For the COVAX initiative, we have no idea who will pay for the COVAX vaccines. The purchase of vaccines has not yet been discussed with the Länder. Will the distribution be 80% for the federal level and 20% for the Länder? That question has not yet been answered. However, we would like to call for international funds to be collected. We also want to support an African ECDC or ACDC. That's very good. I don't have a problem with that. We also want to make an effort to optimise the distribution. However, we now come to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11, that's I fully agree with that request. I give my absolute support. We are in favour of transparency in contracts. Then get on with it. We have just had the discussion on the recommendations of the Covid Committee. We have also just had the discussion about the fact that information is collected. My colleague Frieda Gijbels has once again made it quite clear to the chairman that we, as members of the special co-vid committee, did not touch all the information and that we therefore had to move to a committee of inquiry. You're laughing, Mr. Chairman, but you know I'm right. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now voting in favour of the recommendation to make vaccine contracts transparent. Well, then let's get started. We've been asking for months. And what do we end up getting? Thanks to the efforts of the secretariat of the special covid committee, we receive an email from Ursula von der Leyen with a link to the vaccines. Finally! After ten months, after a positive opinion from the committee on public access that was ignored, we get that link. However, it does not work, because they have forgotten to share the right link. If we finally get the right link, we'll get contracts that are made again, certain passages of which are not accessible. The same applies to the opinions given by the FAGG to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. We don't have access to that either. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if we vote for this, if the majority here really guarantees request No. 11, then let us immediately transform the covid committee into a committee of inquiry. It was in the statutes. We have the applications, we are very clear with different parties about the need to examine this. You say today that we will argue for transparency, we are your partner. Let's get to it right away. There is also something in it about export restrictions. That, too, is special. After all, you all know that the FAGG once, in the heat of the crisis, turned Zaventem upside down by ensuring that medicines could not leave Belgium. Zaventem was at that time, now still married, a hub for the export of very important medicines produced in the pharma valley that Flanders is. If we are consistent, we must also take action in this area and make sure that this does not happen again. I will not say that I am in favour of this, because I absolutely believe that we must ensure that our patients have medicines, but I think that citizens can ask that the majority be consistent. I have been informed in committee that you will approve of this. Do something about it. Go for it. Make your choices. We will not approve this because we are convinced that this motion for a resolution will not bring additional vaccines to our patients. We are convinced that we need innovation, science and cooperation with industry, to bring together innovative medicines and vaccines to our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, no one will be left from the covid until the whole world leaves the covid as well. The virus has no borders and the more vaccination drags around the world, the more the risk of vaccine-resistant variants is present. The text proposed by the PS Group today, in which we have collaborated, has a dual objective of solidarity and global public health. We call for Belgium to be able to plead with the United Nations and the European Union for maximum accessibility of vaccines and treatments against covid. If on the objectives of global solidarity we are almost all aligned, I say almost all, on the means to achieve this we have different visions; the text that is proposed is the result of a common path and a balance, and has the merit of being pragmatic and achievable in the very short term. In substance, environmentalists continue to argue that the temporary lifting of patents is part of the solution to make vaccines more accessible. This vision is not shared and since we are in the majority and in democracy, we have gone as far as we have been able to find a balance. What is the vaccination situation in the world? These are very recent WHO figures. By the end of June, the richest countries had 50 per cent of the vaccine doses produced. The poorest countries now hold only 0.3 per cent of the doses, i.e. 16 million vaccines out of just over five billion vaccines produced. Today, the richest countries are vaccinated at 61.51 per cent, while the poorest countries are vaccinated at only 3.31 per cent. It's not because they don't want to get vaccinated, but because they don't have vaccines. Are vaccines affordable for low-income countries? The WHO has again calculated that countries should increase their health care spending by 56.6 per cent to reach 70 per cent immunization coverage, while the impact for us, the rich countries, is on average only 0.8 per cent, despite the staggered pricing. The WHO target is to reach 40% immunization coverage in these countries. So you will notice that we are still very far from it. There is therefore an urgent need to take action and given this urgency, it is pragmatism that has taken precedence over ideology. Among the positive developments we have made, as Mrs Depoorter pointed out, is the call for Belgium to commit itself to improving the transparency of agreements on vaccine contracts between pharmaceutical companies and the countries that signed them. The immediate implementation of the C-TAP tool for knowledge and technology sharing was also required. We also call on Europe to identify obstacles to voluntary licensing because this comprehensive and serene analysis work needs to be started so that we get out from the top and find an effective solution, whatever it may be, to provide vaccines to the rest of the world. Today, rather than the lifting of patents, international cooperation and voluntary licensing have been retained. It must now be demonstrated that these two levers will be able to meet the challenge of 40 per cent immunization of the world's population. We are concerned that this is not enough and we will therefore continue, at all levels, to press for these vaccines to be accessible. It is an issue of solidarity and efficiency that does not suffer from any delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, making the covid-19 vaccine a global public health good, accessible to all around the world, regardless of the financial resources of the population, is the objective of our proposal. This is a fight that my group has been fighting for months and we want to see it come to fruition through concrete solutions. The numerous hearings that have taken place in the Committee on Public Health, which I have attended, have shown the complexity of the problem. Let us take the situation of the African continent, which has just crossed the course of 200,000 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, 200,000 deaths and only 3% of the population of the vaccinated continent! To date, 80 per cent of people in high-income countries have received their first dose, compared with only 20 per cent in low-income countries. We all agree that it's dramatic. Why such a gap? First of all because these countries do not have access to vaccines. According to the Alliance for a Universal Vaccine, which includes several NGOs including Oxfam and Amnesty International, populations in the poorest countries may not have access to vaccines before 2024, as rich countries have captured nearly 50 per cent of vaccine doses by carrying out massive pre-orders. Secondly, because when these countries have access to vaccines, they are often unable to administer them because of a lack of qualified personnel, problems of financing, transport or respect for the cold chain. And finally, because mistrust has gained a large part of the population, even though on this side, the situation seems to be improving. Our fight isn't from yesterday. Since November 2020, we have been exchanging on this subject because we are all in the same boat, facing the same pandemic. And as my colleague Laurence H annoyed said, no one will be safe until everyone is safe. As is well known, the longer the vaccine will drag around the world, the longer this crisis will last, due in particular to the emergence of variants that could become resistant to vaccines. What we want is for our country to continue to advocate at the international level, including with the United Nations, the World Trade Organization and the European Union, for vaccines and all other treatments against the covid-19 pandemic to be considered as global public health goods, accessible to all, and for it to continue to advocate with the European Union for a clear and coherent European global vaccination strategy against covid-19, focusing on ensuring equal, affordable and timely access to immunization for people in developing countries. We reaffirm this again today, and above all, we want to be pragmatic in order to achieve concrete results in a timely manner. What we want today, and what we have always wanted in this debate, is to go beyond words that make us believe that we are going to solve the issue by simply calling for the lifting of patents on these vaccines. Of course, this is a complex issue, but it remains one of the avenues for solution for us. A patent is indeed a very important link to enable innovation. However, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures must be able to be taken, especially when it is known that such vaccines, for example, have also been developed with public funds. That is why we believe it is essential to plead with the European Union in order to open negotiations within the World Trade Organisation for rapid access to vaccines, equipment and treatment for the virus. The debate must remain open, whether it is the temporary lifting of patents, as some countries call for, or the transfer of technology or the development of know-how in the countries of the South, as others have argued. What is needed today to achieve concrete and rapid results is to enable the voluntary sharing of knowledge, intellectual property rights and data by operationalizing, for example, this important World Health Organization instrument, C-TAP, which, unfortunately, is currently not being used. It is also essential to promote and support the famous VOCAX scheme for the countries of the South. It is an extraordinary international solidarity mechanism that is essential to ensure prompt, fair and equitable access to vaccines for the populations of all countries. That is what we support through this resolution. You know that this work is the result of a compromise because, as we heard at the hearings, not everything is black or white. For my group, it is clear that pharmaceutical companies must finally show voluntarism in the name of human rights, the rights that we are defending. One of these human rights is the right to health for all. The production and supply of vaccines for low-income countries should be accelerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take a moment to look at the origins of this resolution. Originally, it was my good friends and after dear colleagues from PTB-PVDA who came up with a proposal to increase the availability of COVID-19 vaccines worldwide by lifting the patents on the vaccines. They presented their proposal as a priority proposal. The wagon of PS, the current resolution, was initially attached to it. As you know, that link was released at a later stage. I'll come back later to why that happened. Both proposals originally focused on patents relating to the COOVID-19 vaccines, an interesting subject. A number of hearings were held to determine whether the noble aim set out in both resolutions could best be achieved by the means promoted in those resolutions. Those hearings were similar to an ideological argument war for the Flemish interest. I think Mr De Caluwe will agree with that. The questions raised during the hearings clearly showed who was in which camp. Only a limited number of speakers and a limited number of questioners escaped that trenches logic. During the debates it was stated that fishing, disabling and lifting the patents would be perfectly possible to produce vaccines more quickly. During the hearings I heard speakers saying yes and others did not, but I did not see much consensus. For example, I have also heard deadlines of two months to start a production plant, but also deadlines of six months. The hearings did not give me too much clarity on this too. What was clear about was the fact that starting a vaccine production is more than just building or transforming a factory. A number of speakers also pointed out that there is such a thing as personnel, technology, raw materials, not to mention the quality of production. I refer once again to the problems in Seneffe, or to Emerging BioSolutions in Baltimore, where 15 million doses went into the garbage can because there was a production error with the J&J vaccine. At that time, however, they were specialized firms. The fact that companies are ready worldwide does not mean that they are ready to start production. In my humble opinion, both resolutions did not take account of that reality. The big question of whether we can achieve significant parallel vaccine production in a relatively short time was and remains unanswered. Let us go back to the essence of both resolutions: a fair global distribution of the available vaccines. An honest division for who? And what is a fair division? Even at micro level, there was no agreement on that. For example, young people felt that they were the first to be entitled to a vaccine, but so did the elderly, and so did the active population. But also the teachers and the top athletes thought so and so I can go on for a while. We are now familiar with the debate on the order of vaccinations, and it was no different on a global scale, not even within the EU's merry friends' club. In this context, Mr Zacharie of 11.11.11 pointed to the discrepancy between orders and deliveries, resulting in an uneven distribution of vaccines between the North and the South. That is a finding that we can only deny with a great deal of bad will. Because of the uncertainty about the virus and perhaps even more about the efficacy of the virus, the North has taken it for granted and ordered far too many vaccines. Because of that uncertainty, the North simply played for certain. That is, let us be honest, a normal human response from the Heads of State or Government in question. During the discussion of these resolutions I said that I personally was not so pessimistic about this and that I thought that this distortion would be corrected sooner or later. My argument was that once the effectiveness of the vaccines proved, an increasing proportion of the population would have been vaccinated, and production would be released which could then be delivered to the South. And look, a few days ago, Uncle Sam promised Uncle Joe another half a billion vaccines to the South, which he will distribute above the half a billion that the United States had promised before. With 4 million vaccines, our country also puts a dime in the bag, and we are not alone in that. So, ladies and gentlemen, my optimism was not entirely unfounded. The production is getting going pretty well, not to mention that it is already pretty well underway. The vaccination of the North is becoming more than satisfactory. So with that vaccine solidarity, it's also a mustache, I think to myself. During the discussion in committee, I did not wrongly compare this with the removal of air pressure in an airplane: first put on your own oxygen mask and then put on others' masks, so everyone has the best chance. At first, messing around with patents for what I will call the "red side" of this Parliament was a kind of self-evident thing. At some point it must have been understood to the authors of this resolution that there are also a little less left-wing people in the government, that there are a little less left-wing government partners in the majority. The result was initially that the link with the PVDA's initiative was abandoned. Mrs Merckx was not happy with that, I understand her. I suspect she'll be setting up a tree about it herself later. A second result was the famous all-encompassing amendment tabled by the authors, which replaced the whole resolution. That text is 'the fruit of the compromise between the various parties of the majority'. I admit, honestly, I couldn't write it myself. Freely translated and from the modest Buggenhout, it means, in my opinion, that one should remain with the hands of the patents to pull the rest of the government over the line. That is my interpretation of that very beautiful, prosaic sentence. In the original text, the position on the lifting of patents was very clear, but in the text before us, which, as you know, is the result of the comprehensive amendment, that is no longer the case. If anyone is still wondering why Mrs Merckx shed an ideological tear when the text was adopted in the Committee on Health, then he knows why. Ladies and gentlemen, I also note that this resolution ignores the reality that it is not enough to produce vaccines. It's gonna take more than that. I am talking not only about syringes and needles, but also about logistics and information dissemination. And especially about vaccination readiness. Even in our country, it has been relatively difficult for some months to find candidates for a shot. Maybe because of something I'll call easy-to-use vaccination restraint. When I look at the willingness to be vaccinated within the difficult-to-reach groups, as they are called, I dare to predict with some pedantry that it is only a harbinger of the willingness to be vaccinated on the marked continents, based on fear, faith, superstition or some kind of anti-vaxer belief. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this last minute amended resolution which wants Belgium to negotiate, that Belgium is leading the way, that Belgium is holding talks, that Belgium is entering into dialogue, that Belgium is examining, that Belgium is enrolling in processes, and more of those high words, is one of the sheep to whom the local knitting club has enjoyed most. This resolution puts a lot into the eyes of other countries with the ringing finger on this earth. If that's not cynical, it would actually be funny. For, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, according to this resolution, Belgium must play a leading role in creating a framework for combating pandemics. That while we could not even order mouth masks in a normal way and the measures here are adapted to the European Football Championship. So perhaps we'd better stay good and even humbly sitting on our seats instead of wiping out the moral cloak. The common thread in the Belgian approach to the crisis was that there was no plan. I sincerely believe that we should save the world the Belgian example, unless we want to give an example of how not to do so. Colleagues, I will conclude with a positive note. It's not always trouble and torment when I'm standing here. The Flemish Interest does not doubt the good intentions of the proposers, but the final result that is before us has the sole merit of getting the full majority behind it. I don't see much more than that myself. No, the Flemish interest is not against solidarity in the field of vaccines. We too want to show solidarity, but we do have some doubts as to whether there will be enough sheep after this sheep has been shaving to support this resolution in full. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is an empty box with a beautiful, albeit noble packaging, but it is no more than that. You will not be afraid that we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our colleagues in the PS for putting this issue on the agenda. Indeed, it is a dossier that allows all the parliamentarians of our institution to express very clearly a vaccine solidarity. As you will understand, the initial proposals that were made did not entirely suit us, far from that, but we were able to emerge from a purely theoretical and ideological discussion on patents and intellectual property rights, and I believe it was important to be able to do so. We did so in the light of the hearings we conducted. Some patent specialists – whether from ULB or UCL – have told us that vaccines currently on the market are not yet the subject of a patent. There are patents on compositions, elements that make up these vaccines, especially on messenger RNA, which are based on research that started some ten years ago, and which, moreover, concern not only vaccines but a whole series of drugs against cancer or autoimmune diseases, for example, or with interesting promises in the fight against Alzheimer's disease. Listening to patent specialists in our country, it quickly became clear that the patent and intellectual property system allows for as many innovations as possible, and that it is in countries where the patent and intellectual property system is supported that there are the most innovations in all fields, therefore not only in the field of medicine but also in other leading-edge technological fields. Patent and intellectual property enable and encourage innovation. Eighteen months ago, few of us could have thought that, in our countries, vaccines would be available to the population so quickly. This is the first time such speed has been observed. This has been done thanks in particular to patents. It seems to me that we need to get out of the mythology of Big Pharma because, in this case, the main patent on messenger RNA was filed by an SME and not a Big Pharma. It is a small company whose only asset is precisely this type of patent. We would probably never have had this collaboration between Pfizer and BioNTech without a patent system. At least that's my conviction. I may be wrong, but I think that, overall, it is in countries that adhere to the patent and intellectual property system that there are very few innovations in other countries. Or let me have a few examples! But I haven't found them yet! There's a lot of copiers. But people who make real innovation outside of a patent and intellectual property system, I don't think there are many. So we were able to get out of this purely ideological debate on the patent. We all realized that, patent or not, vaccines with a magic wand were not made available to the whole world on an ex officio basis and that many conditions had obviously to be met. My group, like most groups, is very committed to asserting the need for global vaccine solidarity. I'll even go further. I believe that the vaccine is indeed a global public good of universal reach. But patent or not patent, a number of conditions must be met, including production. However, production can only be done on the basis of technology transfer. Voluntary collaboration is therefore required. Without voluntary collaboration, technology transfer is extremely difficult. While the knowledge that justifies the patent can be made available fairly easily. Moreover, when the patent is granted, information circulates in the scientific world on the processes that justify the patent. Everyone therefore takes note of the information on the patent. This is what makes it possible, in particular, to get out of monopoly situations and to move towards a competitive situation which is more favourable to innovation. It is therefore necessary, beyond scientific knowledge, to have a productive capacity. When one has it, it must necessarily rely on the disposition of raw materials. It's essential. I recall that there are 280 raw materials in the composition of a messenger RNA vaccine. We need not only raw materials, but also high-quality personnel, because we would not imagine defending the availability of vaccines globally, but also low-quality vaccines, because we would not have met all the conditions necessary to ensure that these vaccines are of good quality and that they are truly effective. There is a need for high-quality, competent personnel, available raw materials and an efficient distribution system. The whole logistical aspect must also be taken care of. When all these conditions have been met, there is one last one: the people must join. In our country, we have problems of accession in certain parts of the country, very clearly. As a Member of Parliament for the province of Liège, I can talk about it tonight. Sometimes membership is difficult. This is one of the features of our resolution: it is a question of promoting, at the level of international bodies, an accession campaign that is conducive to the vaccination of as many people as possible. There is also a need to enhance the exchange and collaboration between patent-holders, companies that can set up production sites. This is not always easy. Collaborations are successful, such as Universal and Senegal, whose collaboration is supported by the Walloon government with some success. These collaborations are therefore possible and that is what we must aim for and support. We are pleased to have avoided a sterile debate or by playing the sorcerer apprentices on the merits or not of intellectual property. In my view, intellectual property rights are inextricably linked to property rights. We can discuss with proponents of theories that oppose private property and, of course, they are against intellectual property rights. They are against all property rights, by the way. This speech, which I think is a bit sterile, has been avoided when we are aware of the urgency of working to ensure that all populations, including low- and low-income countries, have access to vaccination as quickly as possible. This can prevent human tragedies in this country and it must motivate us, but it also promotes better overall effectiveness against the pandemic both in these countries and in our own countries. We will never be immune from the resurgence of coronavirus as long as there are still countries in which the vaccination rate is clearly insufficient. We therefore all have an interest in this transfer of technology and in the possibility of collaboration and voluntary licensing, in promoting efficient distribution logistics and equally effective international campaigns for vaccination. That is what we support, and we agree with all the proponents of this resolution, that the vaccine is a global public good of universal reach and that it must be supported in its distribution so that the whole world can protect itself against this pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u12	Madam President, in Belgium, all adults and a large proportion of young people have now been given the opportunity to be vaccinated. We currently have about 73 % fully vaccinated. However, we have to note that only 3 to 6% of the population were vaccinated on the African continent. So there really is a vaccination gap between rich and low-income countries. It is crucial that everyone in the world has access to vaccines as quickly as possible. A possible slope that was mentioned before is the temporary lifting of patents on the covid vaccines. In the Committee on Health we have had several hearings on this matter with a huge number of experts. This showed that the removal of patents is not necessarily the best solution to increase production capacity, especially in the short term. The reasons for this are the lack of qualified staff, the great importance of monitoring the quality and the importance of continuous research and innovation for the pharmaceutical sector. Of course, CD&V considers it important that the social responsibility of the pharmaceutical companies grow. We are therefore calling, through this motion for a resolution, for even greater commitment to consultation and voluntary cooperation in order to increase production capacity. We also think it is important not only to think in the short term, but also in the long term to look at how we can increase the self-reliance and independence of developing countries. The resolution before us today certainly contains a package of recommendations and questions to the government that responds to these challenges. Therefore, the CD&V Group will approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u13	A resolution is being adopted today calling for the covid vaccine to be made up for a global public. However, the flag no longer covers the cargo. The loads have changed seriously during the parliamentary process and the Vivaldi parties have tabled a substantial amendment. Colleagues, for this reason, I am less disappointed than angry. Indeed, the text before us is not only an empty shell, but also an accomplice to the behaviour of the Big Pharma, which organizes vaccination apartheid in the world. I'll explain myself in more detail in a moment. Mrs Depoorter, the resolution proposed by the PVDA at the beginning and the resolution presented by the PS are not ideological resolutions. Hundreds of countries ask for the patents to be lifted, as well as thousands of civil society organisations: Amnesty International, 11.11.11, the Socialist Mutuality, the Christian Mutuality and Doctors Without Borders. They really do not all adhere to PVDA ideology, they are pragmatic people who want a solution to the problem we are facing today. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a real crime against humanity. I'm not saying it, it's the British Medical Journal. Even yesterday, an Amnesty International report came out. What did he highlight? That Pfizer, which is a Big Pharma – BioNTech is a small firm, but Pfizer still sells the vaccine! – delivered nine times more doses of its vaccine to Sweden alone than to all developing countries combined! Colleagues, six billion doses are worldwide. How many have gone to the very low-income countries? How many percent went there? The figure is 0.3 %. Colleagues, that is a crime against humanity. No, it is not normal that the pharmaceutical industry today does not want to share its technology during the pandemic and only want to do it on its own terms. When that happens, states must take action. That is also what Amnesty International's report indicates. Amnesty International also deplores the motion for a resolution that will be voted on today, believing in a carte blanche that it is a missed opportunity. Let us go back to the beginning of this discussion. In April 2020, in the first wave of the pandemic, the vaccine does not exist. However, it is under development. Billions of euros and public dollars are paid to pharmaceutical companies, while purchase contracts are negotiated slowly. At that time, the PTB was already submitting a motion for a resolution, in which it was requested to discuss the intellectual property of vaccines under development. You do not give us any reason, so our text is not adopted. But tonight, we're going to adopt another one that kindly asks pharmaceutical companies to share the technology. Some say that the PTB sees everything in black, in the name of ideology, when they say they are pragmatic and ensure that after the crisis of the covid-19, companies will share their technology. And what's going on? The pandemic is continuing. The vaccine is developed and distributed, but the companies do not share anything and sell their products to the richest countries. They are beginning to vaccinate their populations, while people in poor countries are dying. The same theme also comes up here, while more and more people and countries are wondering if the patent on vaccines should not be lifted. The PS is tabling a motion for a resolution, just like we are. Hearings are held. The ensuing discussions are interesting. The N-VA, Voka and big pharma are close friends and the Flemish interest is apparently part of this, based on their voting behaviour. From all right-wing parties we hear fables, such as the technology of vaccines that could not be shared because it is too difficult. It would be copies of poor quality. There are also more and more voices to lift the patents. The Standard states about the Vivaldi parties that only the liberals are still in favour of the retention of the patents. Mrs Kitir also expressed a positive opinion in the first phase on the lifting of patents and supporting the appeal of all those Third World countries. Both the Spanish and the Dutch parliaments voted effectively to lift the patents. There is even an action for Parliament when the resolution is almost voted, with 11.11.11, the sickness funds and civil society organisations. At the beginning of July, Mrs de Laveleye d'Ecolo and Mr Flahaut of the PS were present before Parliament with all the associations which pleaded for the lifting of patents, convinced that this was the right thing to do. So it is in good mood that I go to the committee, because the text of the PS is a good text. This text clearly calls for support for the appeal made to the World Health Organization by the 35 least developed countries for the temporary lifting of patents. Therefore, it is a text that I welcome and that we will have the pleasure of voting. Everything looks good, until the famous 11-point amendment is tabled. On seven occasions, we find the words "voluntary licence", whereas it has been months – since October 2020 – that we make this request. All the mechanisms WHO has put in place to share not only patents but also technologies are empty: firms do not cooperate. They only want to establish contracts on their own terms and for profit. So there is the question of when it really is to decide. It is often said that the Vivaldi is very divided, that there is a bit of everything in it, but when it comes to really taking a position, what do we take as a position? We are told today that the text is a compromise, but is it not the effect of the blackmail of large pharmaceutical companies on the government? It is also said that this is a pragmatic choice. Pragmatic means we want an immediate result. I'm laughing! We've been discussing this for a year. Where is pragmatism? Pragmatism is that 80% of vaccines are reserved for rich countries. That's the pragmatism you put in place today! Today, to be pragmatic is to ask for patents to be lifted, that is to say to pharmaceutical companies that this is wrong, that they do not decide on the conditions, that they have been given billions of euros in support. We're asking you to tell them. In the resolution, that is all we are asking for. Even that, you don't! You say no one will be safe until everyone is safe. But no one will be safe as long as we continue to look and let the capitalist market do. That is the reality! If you vote on this resolution today, which we will not vote on, Belgium will clearly take a position below the European Parliament, below Spain, the Netherlands, and the list is long. I am told here that the PTB wants to conduct an ideological debate against patents. Yes, the PTB has a lot of questions about patents. When we see the story of the little Pia, the exorbitant cost of 1.9 million for a bite, yes, we ask ourselves a lot of questions about patents. Do they really serve to advance public health? But this is not the debate today! Here we only talk about covid-19 vaccines as part of the pandemic. Here, it is all these associations that ask for it; it is more than a hundred countries that ask for it. But you persist and write a scandalous text! We therefore believe that our country's position to hold on to patents is becoming more and more unsustainable. The United Nations Summit will be held this week and the debate on patents has been going on all week. The UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, stated that the world is at the edge of the abyss and is heading in the wrong direction. Several low-income countries are furious about the vaccine nationalism of the rich countries that defend the pharmaceutical industry. The People's Vaccine Alliance, of which the African Alliance is part, said that rich countries continue to offer ridiculous drops of charity while protecting the monopolies of pharmaceutical multinationals and depriving billions of people of protection. A few hours ago, the President of South Africa called for the patent for vaccines to be opened and the vaccines for COVID-19 to be shared. Our country is also represented at the United Nations Summit. Did Alexander De Croo and Sophie Wilmès listen? How can they justify this vaccine inequality? The list of countries that support the lifting of patents is getting longer every day. At the beginning of September, the Australian government joined, today the Spanish President at the UN Summit repeated his plea to lift the vaccine patents, just like the Netherlands and even France. In the European Parliament, a majority voted both in May and in June in favour of the lifting of patents, while the Vivaldi government here is going flat on the belly for the big pharma. On 14 September, more than 140 former Heads of State and Nobel Prize winners, including Mr Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel Prize winner for Economics, former President of France François Hollande and former Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, published an appeal to Germany to support the proposal to lift the patents. Those aren't PVDAs. The demand of so many countries, organisations, trade unions, social movements and academics to open up monopolies is logic itself. Because the vaccine is actually ours, we funded it from public funds. Worldwide, public authorities have injected more than 93 billion euros of public money into it. The basic study for the corona vaccines was largely paid with public money. Companies also received a great deal of public support for the additional steps, such as further research and development. It is therefore no coincidence that we are seeing price increases today. They want to sell the third dose of the vaccine to those who can offer the most. The pharmaceutical companies want to continue with what they are doing and apply the capitalist countries an expensive third dose under the guise of higher efficiency and protection against variants. However, the best dam against new variants is a first and second dose, as soon as possible, for the entire world population. For us, it is clear: the monopoly of vaccine producers must be broken, the patents of the corona vaccines must be lifted. This can change the situation, prevent price increases and ensure that everyone can really be safe. The PVDA will continue to support the citizens' initiative No Profit On Pandemic, which has already raised 216,000 signatures in Europe, continues to put pressure on both the Vivaldi government and the European Commission and continue to fight to make the vaccine truly accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u14	I've been mentioned, as well as Mr Flahaut. I will of course not speak on behalf of Mr Flahaut, even if I think we would be quite in agreement. My colleague Laurence H annoyance said that a few minutes ago. The position of environmentalists has not changed on the issue of patents. She hasn't changed from an iota. There has been a very clear voice in the European Parliament, where voting really matters, since it is Europe that must position itself at the WTO level for the lifting of patents. There is no doubt about that. But that does not at all prevent the pride that we have in being with the majority partners who express themselves in a nuance on their point of view on these issues. Yes, we have made the choice of a majority and we are moving forward together, it is also a pride for us. We can fully remain convinced of our values and continue to do our work with citizens and civil society to keep this fight alive until, I hope, we can win it. For the moment, we have been able to have a calm debate with our majority partners, arrive with a constructed text, not perfect, but that reflects the different points of view of the different people. We're not blushing about it tonight. The fight will continue with our majority partners, with respect for everyone. For now, that's what we've been able to do, but the environmentalists' position has not changed from an iota. I just wanted to clarify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u15	Mrs de Laveleye, I have just said that the proposal is a kind of compromise between the various parties of the majority. I understand that too, because in a majority one must try to agree and try to get his things through. However, I wonder what this proposal, full of good intentions, with many high and beautiful words, will actually contribute, for example, to vaccine equality in the world. I don't personally see that. If you wanted to express a common position, perhaps you should not have used the form of a resolution, but rather a press release. That seems to me to be a much better medium than a text full of hollow, beautiful and perhaps even here and there noble words.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u16	Madame de Laveleye, you say that the majority's partners have given a nuanced opinion on the issue. I don't know if we heard the same speech. Mr Bacquelaine left, but his remarks were not really nuanced. He thanked the partners for the famous compromise. I would like to add that if environmentalists do not change their minds, the sequence is no longer the same as two or three months ago. You have discussed this text. Today, things are changing; the contradiction is becoming more acute. I can only encourage you to support my amendments in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u17	Madam President, I will be brief because many arguments have already been raised. This resolution sets a very clear objective for the pharmaceutical sector. There was some doubt as to whether they would achieve that objective. We are now two or three months after the adoption in committee and we see that the sector is taking its responsibility, because today they have already produced 7.5 billion vaccines. By the end of this year, there will be 12 billion. Why hasn't the idea of lifting the patents been stopped? That is what the hearings have shown. Several organisations have indicated that they were not sure that the lifting of patents would be a guarantee of a solution. Indeed, they do not just start production. The market for raw materials would be disrupted, resulting in shortages. One also needs certain knowledge to start production. The most important point is that quality must also be guaranteed. The content of this resolution is good, realistic things are being asked of the sector. Today, too, we still support that content. Why is this resolution good? Why isn't a resolution with nothing but noble goals? Because the world will not be freed from covid until the world has been able to defeat the virus. This requires a lot of vaccines, vaccines that need to be accessible, including for low- and middle-income countries. That is what we are asking for in this resolution. The lifting of the patents would not provide any additional vaccine, as those hearings showed. By the way, a corona vaccine isn't caught by one patent, it's actually a whole chain of patents. Removing those patents is very complex and it would also hit a lot of SMEs who have invested a lot to get a patent. They have also made a very strong commitment to innovation. We have to be careful not to fight these things, but we also have to remind the sector of its responsibility. That is what we are doing with the very clear objectives set out in the resolution before us. My group will therefore support them because they will effectively lead to the desired result, which we are already seeing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u18	Madam President, I will be very brief because the problem is clear. Europe is slowly getting out of the pandemic. This is happening less quickly than we had hoped, but it is clear that thanks to vaccines, Europe will soon be relatively safe. I say'may be' because, of course, nobody is safe if not everyone is safe. I'll give you two talking examples. In my small municipality in Flemish Brabant more than 90% of the adult population has been vaccinated. In Congo, that's 0.08%. It is clear that this is a dangerous situation for the whole planet, and that we must try to do something about it with that whole planet. Several speakers expressed this in the hearings, and the Prime Minister has already said that exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures. The Health Minister says that vaccination in the Third World is a matter of international solidarity. The UN Secretary-General says that making vaccines accessible and affordable is a matter of health, but there are also humanitarian and economic arguments. Last week, Professor Marleen Temmerman from Kenya said on Radio 1 that only 5% to 10% of Kenyans were vaccinated. She added that the problem there is absolutely not a lack of vaccination readiness, but vaccine unavailability. Our Minister for Development Cooperation, Mrs Kitir, is doing her best. She made a donation of 150,000 vaccines to Uganda a few weeks ago. Of course this happens via COVAX, a good and beautiful instrument. However, that remains charity and charity will not solve the problem. We want not only charity, but also justice and security. That is why we are firmly in favour of the resolution before us. I would just like to draw your attention to two points in the resolution. We are asking that Europe ensure equal global access to covid technology through pooling of knowledge, intellectual property rights and data. For me, these are the two main points in the resolution. Secondly, we believe that we should be able to increase production capacity on the ground, namely in the South. We know that increasing it is a problem, due to the unavailability of highly skilled personnel and the unavailability of materials and raw materials. Nevertheless, a number of countries may face this challenge, especially with the help of certain major market players who have shown a certain willingness to do so. That is why we fully support the resolution before us. As some have said here, the question is indeed whether this resolution is a compromise. Yeah, she's a compromise, one wants them a little more to the left and the other a little more to the right. However, this is a resolution which shows that we all want the same thing, namely security for the entire world population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we can finally have this debate tonight, despite the late hour, but I think this is a really fundamental debate. I regret, however, that Parliament is only taking a position now that it has not been able to do so before the parliamentary holidays. I know that our agenda was particularly busy, but this was a very important and urgent issue for our exit from the crisis. Indeed, contrary to what the Minister of Finance said two weeks ago, the health crisis is not "almost behind us", unfortunately. Today, our exit from crisis and our return to a normal life of freedom and carelessness without covid safe ticket to term will only be real if our immunization coverage is global. At European level, I have to say that the cooperation which we have so much missed on protective equipment - as was mentioned in our work in the Covid Special Committee - has finally existed on the vaccination campaign, as much at the extra-European level solidarity with poor countries is sometimes slow at times punctual. It is, in any case, largely insufficient today in view of the challenge we have to address. However, the issue concerns us directly, since the delta variant, which now concerns 99.5% of covid cases in Belgium – this is what was told to us by the Minister of Health last week – has emerged due to a global vaccine deficiency. This progression is particularly worrying in studies that show that this variant is more dangerous and is twice as likely to be hospitalized as the alpha strain. Fortunately, vaccines are now known to be effective in countering serious forms associated with the delta variant. Yet everyone should have access to these vaccines. Currently, less than 1 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated in low-income countries, compared with 55 per cent in rich countries. This is reflected in the Amnesty International report that was released this Wednesday. More specifically, on the African continent, only 3 per cent of the population is currently vaccinated. In fact, WHO had to revise its targets downwards and indicated in this regard that "Africa will miss the urgent global target of immunizing the most vulnerable 10 per cent of each country by the end of September." The fact is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen. Not only is the population of these countries at risk, but this situation also favours the emergence of new variants that will circulate around the world, including in Belgium, and that could ultimately resist vaccines. We are therefore facing a real global public health problem that calls for a solution, international solidarity. That is why I could only welcome the texts tabled by the colleagues in the PS and, then, the PTB in order to make the vaccine a global public good so that everyone has access to a quality vaccine, certified and free of charge, including in developing countries that cannot now obtain the quantity of vaccine sufficient to achieve this as valuable as it must be collective immunity. Today, rich countries, which have been able to pre-order a number of doses allowing them to immunize their populations several times, are now seeing their vaccination campaigns go up to 30 times faster than in poor countries. At this rate, we were told during the hearings that global immunity would not be achieved until 2024. This situation, which is a humanitarian but also economic nonsense, has been described by some as vaccination apartheid. Strong terms, that's true, but fair, that deserve an answer that is equally so, an emergency response, given the virulence of the different variants. This response must of course be realistic and effective. That was the whole point of our debates in committee. This response should take into account WHO warnings. I would like to quote its president: "Some countries and regions are ordering millions of booster doses, while others have not been able to vaccinate their health workers and the most vulnerable parts of their population. Administering a third dose makes no sense until almost the entire population of poor countries has seen the shadow of a dose." In early August, for example, he wanted to establish a moratorium on booster doses until the end of September. Today, it even calls for an extension of this moratorium until the end of this year, so that each country in the world can vaccinate at least 40 per cent of its population. Colleagues, we discussed this third dose with the minister last week. As a result, a third dose of immunocompromised people, as well as the elderly, was essential today. But immunizing poor countries is just the same. We must therefore remove this argument of fatality to say that we must finally choose between one and the other. Both options are not exclusive; they complement each other. Airfinity's projections, a company that researches the supply and supply of various sectors, were published this Wednesday and confirm it. These projections say that, globally, 11 billion doses will be produced by the end of this year, but also that rich countries now have 1.2 billion doses in excess, even counting the administration of this third dose. This situation can easily be explained. Rich countries did not know which vaccines would be registered. As a result, they had to buy large stocks of different brands. Today, this is obviously shocking because they now know that production is fast and that surpluses can be administered to poor countries, without compromising the vaccination of their own population. For all these reasons, yes, the vaccine must become a global public good. As I said, it was the will to start this proposal, which I was delighted to welcome. But this objective has seriously faded as we met in committee, as well as with the systematic rejection of our amendments, which nevertheless addressed both the concerns of the experts interviewed and the original objectives of this proposal. It is true that, in the meantime, the European Union has decided to send, in addition to the 250 million doses of vaccines already promised to poor countries, an additional 200 million doses by mid-2022 under the VOCAX programme. It is also true that Belgium has decided to send four million doses to third countries, also under the VOCAX programme. Except that this is about mid-2022, when we should target two billion doses of vaccines delivered to low- and lower-middle-income countries by the end of 2021, and not 2022, as Amnesty International rightly points out in its 92-page report published this Wednesday. If not, how many variants will have emerged by mid-2022? How many people who should have been vaccinated will have died because they do not have our chance to live in a rich country? Although the VOCAX programme obviously has the merit of existence, the hearings have made it clear that it is still slow and that it prevents the beneficiary states from being fully involved in their vaccination campaign, thus forcing them to depend on the goodwill not only of the states, but also of the large pharmaceutical companies. This is very clear from our hearings, but also from the Amnesty International report, which states that despite calls for priorities and collaboration with the VOCAX system, pharmaceutical companies have continued to feed stocks from known countries to accumulate large quantities of doses. For example, Pfizer and BioNTech delivered nine times more doses to the Swedish state alone than to all low-income countries combined. Moderna, for its part, has not yet delivered a single dose of vaccine to a low-income country, allocated only 12% of its production to middle-income countries and will not honour the vast majority of its orders for the VOCAX mechanism before 2022. The finding regarding VOCAX is the same for Johnson & Johnson, which will not guarantee most of its delivery commitments to VOCAX and the African Union before 2022. Despite these findings, despite this reality, the lifting of patents has ended up being abandoned, purely and simply, by its defenders. It's their choice. But let us not be made to believe that this choice is based on the hearings because they did not exclude this option at all. On the other hand, these hearings stressed the need, if this option were chosen, to surround it with certain guarantees: firstly, that this should be temporary and strictly limited to the vaccine against covid-19; secondly, that there should be a transfer of technologies, components of the vaccine, know-how and staff training. Indeed, we have seen that a mass vaccination campaign is not improvising. It is prepared with precise human and material means. In fact, the overall amendment of the majority which was voted on in committee aimed at setting up some of these beacons, but without going to the end of the logic. By way of example, while the proposal stresses the need to strengthen the production capacity of vaccines and antiviral drugs worldwide, it does not define the guidelines for this strengthening. For example, we had tabled an amendment which made it clear that this objective could be achieved by using, if necessary, field training in developing countries. The aim here was to provide, where necessary, for the possibility of an international delegation on the ground to launch vaccine production, as well as training and mentoring of staff. The challenge was to allow poor countries to participate fully in the solution rather than to remain in a logic of total dependence on rich countries. Another point which my group sincerely regrets concerns restrictions on exports. The proposal calls on the government to "advocate at European level for a commitment by countries not to impose export restrictions on supplies of vaccines and related materials", a commitment that meets the IMF's recent demand to ensure the free international movement of raw materials and finished vaccines, with restrictions endangering access to vaccines for billions of people in developing countries. Except that this commitment contained in the resolution is unclear: does it involve only the countries of the European Union or also third States, which would be much more coherent? For all these reasons, the motion for a resolution really lacks ambition, but not only. It even becomes ineffective by not marking voluntary licences because, whether you like it or not, the cooperation on which these licences are based does not work in most cases. That is why the developing countries are now facing a shortage of vaccines. So we cannot rely solely on voluntary licences. They alone bring only limited added value to the mere goodwill of each pharmaceutical company. That is why it is essential to anticipate a refusal by the Big Pharma to cooperate by giving guidelines to our government so that it can act proactively, in case of refusal to grant voluntary licences. In such a situation, compulsory licences must be able to be sought by our authorities in order to compel pharmaceutical companies to cooperate with the countries of the South. This is why compulsory licences should be used in a subsidiary way, i.e. without cooperation and therefore voluntary licences. I hope that the scope of this amendment will finally be understood and that I will receive a different answer from the one unfortunately given to me by my colleague from the PS in committee, namely, I quote: "We will see whether the pharmaceutical companies are cooperating or not. If we don't have a voluntary license, we'll see what we're gonna do." It must be noted that, unfortunately, this problem is already present. My colleague from the N-VA spoke earlier about the need to conduct this important debate by coming out of the emotional, facts-based debate. What are the facts? Today, of the world's 5.76 billion injections, only 0.3 per cent went to low-income countries, while high-income countries received 79 per cent. Pharma companies such as Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Jonhson and BioNTech have opposed the temporary lifting of intellectual property rights, including the proposal by India and South Africa to derogate from the TRIPS Agreement. Moreover, none of these companies has issued global non-exclusive licences to other companies. Indeed, since February 2021, Johnson & Johnson has refused to license or share its technology with the Canadian company Biolyse, when it was able to produce up to 20 million doses of Covid 19 vaccine and had committed to providing vaccine for the entire adult population of Bolivia. Following this refusal, Biolyse filed an application for a compulsory licence, to which the Government of Canada has not yet responded. It is therefore very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we have gone beyond the stage of suppositions. Today, we are at the stage of a glaring and dangerous vaccine inequality that requires a firm and clear response. It's a global health problem. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, I can only be disappointed by the weakness of this text, which is so promising at the outset. I also feel disappointment in the very head of some parties of the majority who do not believe themselves in the compromise they have sealed, as my colleague from Ecolo did earlier. This text focuses on cooperation and the voluntary granting of vaccines, while fearing that this is not enough. At DéFI, we do not fear that this will be insufficient; we know that. That is why, if we do not support our amendments and if we do not have ambitions to meet the challenge, without what the European Parliament has had the courage to defend, we will have to abstain on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u20	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u21	* * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u22	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u23	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Dominic Sneppe, Steven Creyelman, Nathalie Dewulf, Kurt Ravyts, Hans Verreyt. The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2004/2) The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (2004/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u24	Improving working conditions and the social status of the medical specialist in training, the ASO, has long been insisting. The ASOs were an important and indispensable link in the hospitals during the corona crisis. However, many indicate that working conditions were difficult. Two out of ten are even considering dropping out of training. This resolution is a start to finally respond to the questions of the ASOs and to improve their working situation. It aims, among other things, to adapt the sui generis statute to a fully-fledged employee statute. The aim is to eliminate heterogeneity in working conditions among the various employers and to fill several legal gaps so that the ASOs can obtain more certainty about remuneration and extralegal benefits. The current roles of trainees as trainers and employers must also be decoupled. Quality training of the ASO is only possible within a sustainable framework. That not only makes the ASO better, but especially his or her patient. In March 2020, hospitals were required to scale up intake capacity for covid patients while at the same time reducing regular activities, such as operations and consultations. So many ASOs couldn't possibly follow their original internship plan and were deployed in departments where they wouldn't normally work. Two out of three ASOs were deployed in covid care and thus provided the important additional capacity, they ran triage stations, emergency services, cohort departments or test centres. Many ASOs were thus trained as covidologists, but at the same time lack a significant part of their normal education. It is therefore possible that not all the conditions for recognition are met when the ASO has completed the internship. This leads to an uncertain situation. The crisis situations in hospitals and the concern about their training were thus still on top of the old very precarious working conditions. They were not saved from this either during the crisis, on the contrary. ASOs did even more watchkeeping than usual, not always reimbursed or properly registered. In March 2020, many were also uncertain about their remuneration. Many internship services that saw the income fall, want to put ASOs posted to covid departments on technical unemployment. However, the sui generis statute does not entitle them to a replacement income. These concerns for the ASOs could be avoided if they had a normal status. Ladies and gentlemen, applause is not enough to express our appreciation for their commitment to the pandemic. We must at last work on an improved statute. The challenges in health care are enormous. There is no doubt that the pressure on hospitals will remain high in the coming years, given the consequences of the pandemic and the damage caused by delayed care. In addition, the ageing population is continuing to grow. During the covid pandemic, they once again proved their indispensableity. The ASOs are tomorrow's specialists. So the care needs them. It is therefore important for them to be able to complete their training in the best conditions. Quality training is a responsible investment in our future. Our group has noted that there is little interest in this issue in French-speaking Belgium. Only Mrs Fonck took part in the discussion of the present proposal for a resolution. The other French-speaking parties themselves did not find it worth reading the proposal, let alone discussing it. In future, therefore, spare us your feigned indignation when it comes to wage conditions and working conditions in the care sector. The argument that the proposal is out of date because there is now an agreement is calling into question. Indeed, an agreement was reached, but there are still a lot of gaps in that. There have been promises made by Minister Vandenbroucke who have not yet been kept. The agreement reached is a first step but there is still work to be done, such as the social status, the quality of training and the respect and efficiency of working hours. Our proposal seeks to remedy all this. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution is a stick behind the door, because it keeps the consultation going. The agreement does not satisfy everyone, although it is a step in the right direction. Our proposal for a resolution was submitted to the Flemish Association of Arts Specialists in Education (VASO). They thought it was a good proposal. A few months ago, the ASOs took action and were able to count on the support of all the political groups. There was indignation everywhere and almost all the political groups asked the Minister about the consultation. They asked whether a reform of the ASO Statute could finally be implemented. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to turn your indignation and concern into action at last. I therefore hope that this resolution, which is intended to ensure that what has been agreed in the recent agreement will actually be implemented, will still be supported ad ultimumally across party boundaries. Hopefully it won't be opposition to majority, because that's what you're so good at. This must be supported across party boundaries, in the interests of the doctors-specialists in training and in the interests of our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u25	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for being here so late. I really appreciate that. Let me just outline the reason for my interplay. The problem of the pensions of underground miners is well known to you; you are perfectly aware of this as the competent minister. This is an important dossier, and I am sure you will be able to confirm it - not least because it concerns people who have been working hard for years in unsafe and unhealthy conditions and who have created prosperity, prosperity that we all enjoy today. It is also important because it is about pensions. The pensions are a hot item. Three weeks ago, you experienced this in person, when you unfolded your pension reform plan and before you said the last sentence, already by your coalition colleagues, your partners were, in the majority, sacrificed on the altar of public opinion. That does not surprise us at all; we are used to it in the meantime. Yesterday it was about pensions, today it is about labour market reforms, tomorrow it will be something else, but that aside. In short, it is an important dossier, especially since we learned from the launch of your plan that public opinion is awake from his pension. Much more than before, citizens are wondering whether they will be able to benefit from a pension after years of hard work and contribution. In concrete terms, the underground miners' pension is laid down in the Law of 20 July 1990. It's been a long time. It was implemented by the Royal Decree of 4 December of the same year, but in the wrong way. Together, we decided democratically to correct what was wrong at the time by adopting a law on 15 June 2020. In the meantime, almost all the behind stables, which we decided upon with the adoption of the legislative proposal in June 2020, were paid out smoothly and efficiently by the miners themselves, for which I thank you, Madam Minister. However, the legal interests and damages claimed for failure to act by the government have not been paid. I am not a pension specialist or financial expert, so I leave it to the experts and, who knows, someday a court of law to decide whether that claim is justified. In any case, the underground miners, armed with advice from a number of experts, are of the opinion that they are indeed entitled to legal interest and compensation. They were here not so long ago, on 13 September, to interpret and argue their claim. Last Saturday, the miners organized a memorial in Waterschei to commemorate the three deaths caused by the social unrest caused by the closure of the Zwartberg mine and those who lost their lives in coal exploitation and during the speeches the miners raised the pension file. At that memorial ceremony a special guest, especially King Filip, did not show up, because his agenda did not allow it to be present. He had announced through his cabinet, when he apologized that his brother, Prince Laurent, would be present, and so he was. Prince Laurent was there. Is he the pension specialist at the court or couldn't the others be there? I don't know, but that's not at the heart of the matter either, not the most important thing. What is important is that the prince there made a political statement, made a political statement. Faced with the miners' claim regarding legal interests and damages, he apologized for the mistakes his generation made in the past out of ignorance. He made that statement there publicly, for the micro, for the people. That is a political statement by the King, pronounced by the one who replaced him there. We are still living in a parliamentary democracy, which means that power should lie in Parliament and that the King, with all due respect, is primarily there for the grace and should keep himself far from political statements. Good deals make good friends. Since there was a political verdict, it must be covered by the federal government. Madam Minister, I have three questions, initially addressed to the Prime Minister, but I am very pleased that you are replacing him here. Was the government aware that the prince would be there? He made statements there which are clearly of a political nature, because he apologized for a mistake. That word nevertheless implies a correction or at least gives the impression that the prince supports the claim of the miners. That is therefore a political statement. Is it covered by the government? If not, what exactly did the prince mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u27	Madam Minister, unlike the previous speaker, I will keep it a little shorter and a little more to the point. Contrary to the previous party, we are convinced of the sincerity and legality of the demands of miners. I'm gonna do the story real quick. Last Saturday, September 18th, there was a memorial ceremony for deceased miners in Thor Park in Waterschei, a former mining site in Genk. There was thought of the miners who have lost their lives during the performance of their job in the underground, but also of miners who have subsequently lost their lives because of health problems caused by the work they have ever done, for example, the well-known dust lung and the like. Finally, three miners were thought to have died during the mine closure event, two of whom were even shot in the back. Before that commemoration, the miners had sent an invitation to the Royal Palace, asking whether King Filip could be there. They also mentioned a mistake made at the time by the King in the implementation of the Law of 20 July 1990, which never correctly fulfilled the legal promises to miners. They also reported that they therefore consider that they are entitled to compensatory interest and compensation.We share that view. The Palace responded to that invitation with a beautiful letter on parchment. They had bad news and good news, although in this case these are relative concepts. The bad news was that the King himself couldn't come because he was too busy. His schedule was full. The good news was that the solution was to send someone else, namely his brother, Prince Laurent. So Prince Laurent would come to replace the King on behalf of the Royal House, no matter what he did. The way that happens to Prince Laurent, he did something unexpected there. He spoke there, which I do not think was foreseen. There he acknowledged the mistakes made in the past by the King's generation "Jews." He excused himself for this and called out... two former miners, gave a big group hug and apologized. What he did there is not without meaning. That's why I have a few questions. Are you aware of the statements he made? Prince Laurent was there on behalf of the Royal House, in place of the King, and his statements are, in principle, covered by the government. In particular, is the government prepared to bear the consequences of this recognition of guilt and thus to meet the legitimate demand for compensatory interest and compensation for miners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u28	Madam Secretary, you seem to represent not only your own department today, but the whole government. You have already replaced Mrs Kitir and now you must replace the Prime Minister. So it is seen that there can be with fewer ministers as well. I've been standing here since the first minute in front of the miners and I'll keep doing it as a proud miners' son. Last week, on 18 September, a beautiful memorial was organized by the non-profit association Mijn-Verleden in Genk. Important politicians were also present. I was in the front row with Mrs Nawal and the two ministers. We saw and heard what was happening there. It was a modest moment, we agree on that. The dead who died in the mine were commemorated. We must not forget the social measures at the closure of the Zwartberg mine and the hundreds of deaths which were subsequently caused by dust lung. There was also a memorial from Genk Gedenkt last week. It was striking that there were a lot of ex-miners at the coronados because of their weak lungs. I thought it was a good time, too. What struck me was the presence of Prince Laurent. You have also seen the press and you know that there was a lot of commotion about it, because the King had invited the Mijn-Ververstand vzw Mijn-Verstand but he did not show up. That probably wasn't important enough. Then who's being sent? Then they send Prince Laurent. But a whole group of miners said they didn't want him there. Why would you do that? The whole Royal House never cared about the dead in the mine. They have never given a ruling on miners' pensions and negligence interests, even though they have been asked a thousand times for help. The evil was of course done; at some point he took the floor and seemed to interfere in the discussion about miners' pensions. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, because he called the two groups together and said he wanted to apologize for the mistakes made by the Court out of ignorance. I don't know what to make of that. The listeners did notice that it was about their miners' pensions. On September 5th there were no less than 5,000 miners present in Houthalen, even though they are getting older for a day. You undoubtedly know better than I do how many miners are still alive. On September 13th they were here and they clearly kept their end of the bargain. They would not make a tumult and convey the clear message that they are entitled to negligence, assisted in that by specialists and lawyers; they have indeed not sucked that out of their mind and stand strong. They've come here, they've raised objections and they've returned home. I've had the honour to be on stage with them several times. There was still fire in their eyes. How long will they be patient, especially with such statements? A prince who replaces the King from no empty words. If you tell me immediately that all negligence is being paid, you may come to your prime minister's office. This is binding. The miners are still awake and follow the discussion. They're hoping for a positive answer. They're not gonna stop at this. I will often take the micro for them in the next few weeks and months. So I have a few questions and perhaps you will give me just one pre-chewed answer. Were you aware in advance of the statements the prince would make? Were they tested in the government? What do you follow the words of the prince? In my opinion, the prince clearly confirmed that mistakes were made in the implementation of the law of 20 July 1990. Will the government bear the legal consequences of the king's misdeeds? Will the government support the demand for interest and compensation for the miners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has asked me to read the following reply from the Prime Minister and hence from the Government. Prince Laurent was present at the activity in question as part of his duties after an official invitation. The Prime Minister was not aware that the prince would take the floor, as that was not planned. The prince himself explained this in that way during his speech. The prince's statements are not the responsibility of the government. The Constitution states that only the acts and statements of the King must be covered by a minister. So the prince didn't speak on behalf of the government either. He had not received any prior instruction. A prince receiving a donation is subject to the code of conduct laid down in the Law of 27 November 2013, which expects the beneficiaries to be neutral and reserved in their activities in their words and behaviour. In view of the context of the activity, according to the Prime Minister, in the words of the prince no more should be read than what he has said. It was a message of justified empathy in the context of emotional remembrance and in the light of the great sacrifices made by the miners in the past. We do not interpret it as a political statement on a pending issue, nor as an adverse admission of guilt with legal implications for the past. So much for the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for reading the Prime Minister's reply. I note that, according to the Prime Minister, the statements of the prince do not fall under the responsibility of himself and the government, that they do not have to be covered and that they did not refer to the claim concerning the miners' pension file. It would therefore be merely words of empathy in function of the memorial. That's how I understood it, from you and from the Prime Minister. I don't know if it's that easy for people to distinguish between the King and the prince who formally represents him. The Prime Minister also says that this man is indeed subject to a number of rules of conduct. They are laid down by law and you referred to them in your reply. This man creates more than EUR 300 000 a year from the taxpayer and in return he should remain silent. Neutral and reserved, as you say. So he's not allowed to make political statements. He should definitely shut up when he's not prepared. As the prince himself said, the verdict was not foreseen and he had no paper. Not so long ago, there was a party on the occasion of the ninetieth anniversary of the Chinese army. That same prince was there, too. He didn't make any political statements at the time. Only his presence then led to a riot, with the result that part of his dotation was temporarily withheld. Last week, he did make a political statement. Tonight we can conclude that the prince is not a donkey, because he stumbles again on the same stone. The man has the choice to accept and remain silent over EUR 300 000 a year from the taxpayer. However, he also has the choice to do what his colleague in the United Kingdom has done, because he and his wife have left the monarchy together. That man is free, he goes wherever he wants, doesn't have to answer to anyone and says what he wants. This would be a very honourable choice, by the way, should the prince hear this. Apart from that, the prince has at least created the expectations that you will have on your government table tomorrow. The current claim of the miners is fairly expensive and will have a serious impact on your budget. The legal interest and damages claimed would amount to around €1.8 billion. It is written in the stars that this riot number becomes so much in the Vivaldi government. I remember that on 15 June 2020 we passed the law I referred to earlier. Your current colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister - today at Open Vld - was furious and out of control because that law was passed here at the time. Your other colleague, the self-proclaimed Iron Lady, Mrs De Bleeker, says very strongly that she is keeping a close eye on her budget, as it is already a tragedy, and that she will therefore be adamant. You can't expect them to approve of this, can you? With Open Vld however, they never know what will happen, that is your luck It will certainly be an amusing spectacle, the sequel of feuilleton Vivaldi. Madam President, since we do not believe that the prince has complied with the restraint imposed on him by law, I will move you in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u31	Madam Secretary, I listened very carefully to what Alexander De Croo had you say. I do not entirely share that view, because I find it very easy to say now that only the King's statements are covered by the government. I have a copy of a fine letter from the Royal Palace in Brussels, in which Prince Laurent is sent on behalf of the King. I therefore believe that the reading given by the miners is correct. They have listened carefully to what has been said. I heard the same thing, and it's not without meaning. It may have come from a sense of empathy, but it does have a meaning if the person who speaks in the place of the King himself says that the King has made mistakes in the past. Then I find it very easy for the government to say that it is not responsible. I will therefore have to go back to Limburg and communicate the government's position to the miners, but I personally am convinced that the battle of the miners will continue. The Flemish interest will certainly support them in this. They will not agree and you will probably see them again in Brussels, with our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u32	Madam Secretary, there are two aspects to this. The first aspect is that Prince Laurent makes a statement. I am convinced that he did not make these statements maliciously, but out of sympathy for the miners. However, we cannot ignore the fact that he was sent in the capacity of the King. He wasn't there by chance. I am not a legal specialist, but I do know that these miners are surrounded by specialists and that this could be a serious blow. The second aspect does bother me. Several colleagues passed that law last year. I'll probably wake sleeping dogs right now, but that law would never have been passed if we had a government with full authority. We had a government in ongoing cases and there was fear. What will the miners do? Will they sit together and draw to one party? That's how it starts rolling here, out of fear. We now have a government with full authority and I know that statements often have an expiry date. But then those people were behind the miners and now they should make the same decision. I don't think this is gonna happen. I took the micro at every manifestation and meeting of the miners and I keep saying what I said last year. The strange thing is that a lot of members of the Vivaldi government are still taking the micro and saying that everything regarding taxation of miners' pensions, compensation and interest will be fine, knowing well enough that Vivaldi will never be approved. All you do is poke at those miners. I can only hope this government falls. Then it will be a government of current affairs again and this can be done very quickly. If that does not happen, then we have to wait for new elections and then suddenly all kinds of things can start to roll. Madam Secretary, I ask you to be clear. Let these miners not wait thirty years, give them the clear answer they are entitled to. Do it now. Get surrounded by specialists. Apparently, everything is your domain now. You are still assisted by other ministers on finance and the like. Do me a favor, don't make those citizens of our country crazier. Don't fool them anymore. In the Vivaldi government, make it clear that there are limits and let the miners finally, after more than 30 years, get what they deserve, so that they can finally enjoy what they deserve in the last few years of their lives with their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u33	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Raskin and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Wouter Raskin, Mr Frank Toventors and Mr Gaby Colebunders and the reply of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Combating Poverty and Beliris, - considering the statements of Z.K.H. Prince Laurent on 18 September 2021 at a ceremony of former miners on the mining site of Waterschei; - whereas King Filip informed the mining association vzw MY-Sold that Z.K.H. Prince Laurent accepted to attend the ceremony; - having regard to Article 19 of the Law of 27 November 2013 on the donations and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family as well as the transparency of the financing of the monarchy, which reads as follows: "The members of the Royal Family shall at all times ensure that the dignity and integrity of their functions are not compromised by their words, their attitudes or their conduct. - having regard to Article 20 of the Law of 27 November 2013 on the donations and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family as well as the transparency of the financing of the monarchy, which reads as follows: "In the performance of their duties, the members of the Royal Family shall be reserved for the public expression of their opinion, regardless of the matter or medium used. The members of the Royal Family bear witness to the political, philosophical, ideological or religious views expressed in a democratic society. - having regard to the previous events of 2017 concerning: the visit to a celebration at the Chinese embassy, which gave rise to the holding of part of the dotation of Z.K.H. Prince Laurent; - considering the statements of Z.K.H. Prince Laurent is clearly of a political nature, in no way neutral, nor witnesses of any restraint; - considering Z.K.H.'s ruling. Prince Laurent is a prerequisite on government decisions to be taken and thus violates the separation of powers; asks the government Z.M. King Filip and Z.K.H. Prince Laurent and, if necessary, propose to the Chamber of Representatives to include part of the latter's contribution." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Raskin and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Wouter Raskin, Frank Troosters et Gaby Colebunders and the response of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Disabled Persons, the Fight against Poverty and Beliris, - considering the comments made by S.A.R. Prince Laurent on 18 September 2021 during a ceremony of former miners at the Waterschei mining site; - considering that King Philip had informed the association of minors MIJN-VERLEDEN (ASBL) that S.A.R. Prince Laurent had agreed to attend the ceremony; - Considering Article 19 of the Act of 27 November 2013 concerning the endowments and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family and the transparency of the financing of the monarchy, which reads as follows: 的At any time, members of the Royal Family shall ensure that their words, attitudes or behaviour do not compromise the dignity and respectability attached to the functions they perform; - Considering section 20 of the Act of 27 November 2013 concerning the endowments and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family and the transparency of the funding of the monarchy, which reads as follows: "In the performance of their duties, members of the Royal Family shall exercise reservations in the public expression of their opinions, regardless of the material or media used. The members of the Royal Family show respect for the political, philosophical, ideological or religious views expressed in a democratic society. - Considering that the events that occurred earlier in 2017, as part of the visit to a ceremony at the Chinese Embassy, resulted in the partial withdrawal of the allocation of S.A.R. Prince Laurent; - Considering that the remarks made by S.A.R. Prince Laurent is clearly of a political nature, that they are in no way neutral and do not testify to any restraint; - Considering that the remarks made by S.A.R. Prince Laurent anticipates decisions to be taken by the government and therefore violates the principle of the separation of powers; asks the government to hear H.M. King Philip and S.A.R. Prince Laurent and to propose to the House of Representatives, if necessary, to retain part of the endowment of the last named." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by the Gaby Colebunders and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Wouter Raskin, Mr Frank Toventors and Mr Gaby Colebunders and the reply of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Combating Poverty and Beliris, asks the government To confirm that errors have occurred in the past in the implementation of the Law of 20 July 1990 and to apologise for them. The Law of 15 June 2020 should be correctly implemented and the one-off payment of the retroactive pension supplement of the underground miners should not be taxed. (b) to pay the interest and compensation due on the one-off payment of the retroactive pension supplement of the underground miners.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Gaby Colebunders and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Wouter Raskin, Frank Troosters et Gaby Colebunders and the response of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Disabled Persons, the Fight against Poverty and Beliris, asks the government - confirm that in the past errors have been made in the implementation of the Law of 20 July 1990 and apologize in this regard; - correctly apply the Act of 15 June 2020 and do not tax the single allowance for the retroactive pension supplement for minors of the background; - to pay the compensation and interest due on the retroactive pension supplement for substantive minors." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u34	Madam Chair, the majority is asking for urgency in voting on the motion outright.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u35	The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u36	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that you replace Mr Patrick Dewael with Mr Christian Leysen as Chairman of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate from 15 September 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that Mr Patrick Dewael be replaced by Mr Christian Leysen as chairman of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate Change from 15 September 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u37	Let us know that they have formed in their meetings today - by message of 1 September 2021: the Walloon Parliament; - by message of 2 September 2021: the Parliament of the French Community. Please inform us that they have been declared lawful and complete at the meeting of that day. - by letter of 1 September 2021: the Walloon Parliament; - by letter of 2 September 2021: the Parliament of the French Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u38	I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Catherine Fonck and Vanessa Matz) to assess and develop alternative methods for the confinement of families with minors, No 905/1. I propose that you send the following motion for a resolution to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Vanessa Matz) on the evaluation and development of alternatives to the imprisonment of families with minor children, No. 905/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u39	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 15 July 2021, a call for candidates for the term of office of Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services was published in the Belgian Monitor of 19 July 2021. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 July 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of the Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 July 2021. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr. Jean De Meyer (N), temporary attaché to the House of Representatives - Mr. Frédéric Givron (F), Legal Officer, R Committee - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body - Mr Christophe Légulier (F), Registrar of the P Committee - Nathalie Patouossa (F), Deputy Chief of Staff to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance - Mr. Johan Vanderborght (N), Chief of Service a.i. Documentation and Legal Affairs Department to the R Committee The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr Jean De Meyer (N), temporary attaché to the Chamber of Representatives - Mr Frédéric Givron (F), lawyer at the Committee I - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information Mr Christophe Légulier (F), Registrar of the Committee P - Ms Nathalie Patouossa (F), Deputy Head of Cabinet with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance - Mr Johan Vanderborght (N), Head of Service a.i. Department of Documentation and Legal Affairs at the Committee I MM. Jean De Meyer, Frédéric Givron and Koen Gorissen and Nathalie Patouossa provide proof of knowledge of the other language. MM. Christophe Légulier and Koen Vanderborght must demonstrate their knowledge of languages through a language test at the Selor. Mr Jean De Meyer, Mr Frédéric Givron and Mr Koen Gorissen and Mrs Nathalie Patouossa provided proof of the knowledge of the other language. Mr Christophe Légulier and Mr Koen Vanderborght should demonstrate their language skills through a language test at Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that: - invite candidates who cannot demonstrate the required language proficiency to a language test in the Selor; - forward the eligible applications to the political groups after the results of the language test and security clearance applications are known, and - then organise the hearing of candidates in the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of committees P and R. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose: - invite candidates unable to demonstrate the language skills requested to a language test at Selor, - after the results of the language test and of applications for security clearance ′′very secret′′ are known, to deliver the admissible applications to the political groups, and - then organise the hearings of the candidates in the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the P and I committees. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u40	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 1 July 2021, a call for candidates to serve as an effective and alternate member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services was published in the Moniteur belge on 12 July 2021. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 July 2021, a call for candidates for the mandates of working and deputy members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 12 July 2021. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Effective member candidates: Candidate working member: Francophone applicants: - Mr. Hugues Brulin, Director of State Security - Mr Antonio Caci, member of the P Committee - Mr Vincent Stragier, Counsellor in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs French-speaking candidates: - Mr Hugues Brulin, Head of State Security - Mr Antonio Caci, member of the Committee P - Mr Vincent Stragier, adviser to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs Dutch-speaking applicants: - Mr Herman Daens, effective member of the P Committee - Ms. Liesbeth De Vlieger, Chief Commissioner of the Antwerp Police Area - Mr. Peter De Smet, General Counsel, Ghent Court of Appeal - Mr. Joris Lagrou, lawyer at the West Flanders Bar - Ms Sara Segaert, Commissioner-in-Chief, PJF Brussels Dutch-speaking candidates: - Mr Herman Daens, working member of the Committee P - Ms Liesbeth De Vlieger, Chief Commissioner of the Antwerp Police Zone - Mr Peter De Smet, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent - Mr Joris Lagrou, lawyer at the front desk of West Flanders - Ms Sara Segart, Commissioner in charge of the FGP Brussels By e-mail dated September 3, 2021, Ms. Liesbeth De Vlieger withdrew her application. By e-mail of 3 September 2021, Ms Liesbeth De Vlieger withdraws her candidacy. First alternate candidates: Candidates 1st Deputy Member: Francophone applicants: - Mr. Hugues Brulin, Director of State Security - Ms Vanessa Rigodanzo, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister President of the Brussels-Capital Region French-speaking candidates: - Mr Hugues Brulin, Head of State Security - Ms Vanessa Rigodanzo, Deputy Cabinet Director of the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region Dutch-speaking applicants: - M. Peter Billiouw, chief de corps de la zone de police de Spoorkin - Ms. Liesbeth De Vlieger, Chief Commissioner of the Antwerp Police Area - Mr. Peter De Smet, General Counsel, Ghent Court of Appeal - Mr. Dirk Van Der Kelen, President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders - Mr. Filip Vanneste, Deputy Attorney General, Antwerp Court of Appeal Dutch-speaking candidates: - Mr Peter Billiouw, Chief Constable of the Spoorkin Police Zone - Ms Liesbeth De Vlieger, Commissioner for the Antwerp Police Zone - Mr Peter De Smet, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent - Mr Dirk Van Der Kelen, Chairman of the East Flanders Court of First Instance - Mr Filip Vanneste, deputy attorney-general at the Antwerp appeal court By e-mail dated September 3, 2021, Ms. Liesbeth De Vlieger withdrew her application. By e-mail of 3 September 2021, Ms Liesbeth De Vlieger withdraws her candidacy. Second alternate candidates: Candidates second alternate member: Francophone applicants: - Mr. Hugues Brulin, Director of State Security - Ms Séverine Merckx, Counsellor in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour French-speaking candidates: - Mr Hugues Brulin, Head of State Security - Ms Séverine Merckx, adviser to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work Dutch-speaking applicants: - Ms. Liesbeth De Vlieger, Chief Commissioner of the Antwerp Police Area - Mr. Peter De Smet, General Counsel, Ghent Court of Appeal - Mr. Dirk Van Der Kelen, President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders - Mr. Filip Vanneste, Deputy Attorney General, Antwerp Court of Appeal Dutch-speaking candidates: - Ms Liesbeth De Vlieger, Commissioner for the Antwerp Police Zone - Mr Peter De Smet, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent - Mr Dirk Van Der Kelen, Chairman of the East Flanders Court of First Instance - Mr Filip Vanneste, deputy attorney-general at the Antwerp appeal court By e-mail dated September 3, 2021, Ms. Liesbeth De Vlieger withdrew her application. By e-mail of 3 September 2021, Ms Liesbeth De Vlieger withdraws her candidacy. One candidacy is missing for the term of second alternate French-speaking member. Several candidates apply for both effective and first and second alternate members, which implies that the total number of candidates appears to be insufficient to fill all the mandates of alternate Francophone members. There is one candidate missing for the mandate of French-speaking, second alternate member. Several candidates presented themselves both for the mandates of the working member and for the mandates of the first and second alternate candidate, thus proving insufficient the total number of candidates to complete all the mandates of the French-speaking, alternate member. In accordance with the opinions of the Conferences of Presidents of 15 and 22 September 2021, I propose: - to publish a new call for candidates for the Moniteur belge for the terms of first and second alternate French-speaking members; - to transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups as soon as all candidates have obtained the security clearance ′′very secret′′ - the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment to Committees P and R will then proceed to their hearing. In accordance with the opinions of the Conferences of Presidents of 15 and 22 September 2021, I propose: - to publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of French-speaking first and second alternate members; - deliver the candidates' curriculum vitae to the political groups as soon as all candidates have received the security clearance ′′very secret′′, and - they will then be heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of committees P and I. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u41	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 15 July 2021, a call for candidates for the term of office of Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Services was published in the Belgian Monitor of 19 July 2021. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 July 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of the Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 July 2021. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr. Hugues Brulin (F), Director of State Security - Mr. Jean De Meyer (N), temporary attaché to the House of Representatives - Mr. Frédéric Givron (F), Legal Officer of the R Committee - M. Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Police Information Review Body - Mr. Christophe Légulier (F), Registrar ff at Committee P - Ms. Sylvie Michiels (N), Chief of Service at the local police area Hamme-Waasmunster - Ms. Diane Vertongen (N), Chief of Complaints Section at Committee P The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Hugues Brulin (F), Executive Director of State Security - Mr Jean De Meyer (N), temporary attaché to the Chamber of Representatives - Heer Frédéric Givron (F), Lawyer at the Committee I - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body for Police Information - heer Christophe Légulier (F), Registrar of the Committee P - Ms Sylvie Michiels (N), Head of the local police zone Hamme-Waasmunster - Mrs Diane Vertongen (N), Head of Department for Complaints Section of the P Committee By e-mail dated August 31, 2021, Sylvie Michiels withdrew her application. By e-mail of 31 August 2021, Ms Sylvie Michiels withdraws her candidacy. MM. Jean De Meyer, Frédéric Givron and Koen Gorissen provide proof of knowledge of the other language. MM. Hugues Brulin and Christophe Légulier and Diane Vertongen must demonstrate their knowledge of languages through a language test at the Selor. Mr Jean De Meyer, Mr Frédéric Givron and Mr Koen Gorissen provided proof of the knowledge of the other language. Mr Hugues Brulin and Mr Christophe Légulier and Mrs Diane Vertongen must demonstrate their language skills through a language test at Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that: - invite candidates who cannot demonstrate the required language proficiency to a language test in the Selor; - forward the eligible applications to the political groups after the results of the language test and security clearance applications are known, and - then organise the hearing of candidates in the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of committees P and R. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose: - invite candidates unable to demonstrate the language skills requested to a language test at Selor, - after the results of the language test and of applications for security clearance ′′very secret′′ are known, to deliver the admissible applications to the political groups, and - then the hearings of the candidates in the special committee responsible for parliamentary to provide guidance to the P and I Committees. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u42	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 June 2021, a third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 21 June 2021 for the terms of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking members for the category ′′former agents′′′ of the Federal Ethics Commission. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 June 2021, a third call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 June 2021 for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking member for the category ′′ former officials′′ of the Federal Deontological Commission. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mme Helga Stevens (N) The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Helga Stevens (N) By letter of 10 September 2021, Ms. Helga Stevens withdrew her application. By letter dated 10 September 2021, Ms Helga Stevens withdrew her candidacy. The following application was submitted late: - Mr. Philippe Mahoux (F) The following application was late: - Mr Philippe Mahofux (F) There are still not enough nominations for French- and Dutch-speaking members for the category ′′former agents′′. There are still insufficient applications for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members for the category ′′ ex-mandates′′. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that you declare Mr Philippe Mahoux's candidacy inadmissible and publish a new appeal to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of office of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking members for the category ′′former agents′′′ of the Federal Ethics Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that Mr Philippe Mahofux's candidacy be declared inadmissible and that a new call be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Member for the category ′′ of former officials′′ of the Federal Deontological Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u43	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 27 May 2021, an appeal for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 9 June 2021 for the appointment of an alternate member of the French-speaking physician as well as for three terms as a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 27 May 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 9 June 2021 for the mandate of French-speaking, Deputy Doctor and for three mandates of Dutch-speaking, Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mme Lore Geeraerts (N), candidate housesier de justice - Mr. Pierre Lefranc (N), State Councillor, Council of State The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mrs Lore Geeraerts (N), candidate bailiff Mr Pierre Lefranc (N), Council of State at the Council of State The applications submitted are insufficient for both the term of French-speaking alternate members and the term of Dutch-speaking alternate members. There were insufficient applications for both the mandate of French-speaking alternate member and the mandates of Dutch-speaking alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for these terms of office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for these mandates. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u44	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 June 2021, a fourth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 21 June 2021 for the terms of office of: - effective French-speaking member for the subcategory ′′ in charge of courses or professor (emeritus) in medicine′′; - French-speaking alternate member, for the sub-category ′′ in charge of courses or professor (emeritus) in medicine′′ and for the category ′′ in charge of problem-solving′′′; In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 June 2021, a fourth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 June 2021 for the mandates of: - French speaking, effective member, for the subcategory ′′doctor or (emeritus) professor of medicine′′; - French speaking, alternate member, for the subcategory ′′doctor or (emeritus) professor of medicine′′ and for the category ′′circles responsible for the problem′′; The following applications were submitted: 1. Category "Professor (Emeritus) or Law Lecturer or Lawyer" - Mr. Christophe Bier, neurologist, visiting professor at the Brussels-Brabant High Schools - Mr. Marc De Hert, Regular Professor of Medicine at KULeuven 2. Category "Middles dealing with the problem of patients with incurable disease" - Mrs. Natasia Hamarat, sociologist of health, PhD student at the METICES Centre of the ULB The following applications were submitted: 1. Category "(emeritus) professor or lecturer in law or attorney" - Mr Christophe Bier, neuroloog, gastprofessor aan de Hautes Ecoles Bruxelles-Brabant - Mr Marc De Hert, ordinary professor of medicine at the KULeuven 2. Category "circles in charge of the problems of incurably ill patients" - Ms Natasia Hamarat, Sociologist in Health Science, Ph.D. at the Centre METICES de l.O.L.L.B. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose that: - to declare the candidature of Mr Jean-Christophe Bier admissible for the category ′′doctor in medicine′′ but not for the subcategory ′′ in charge of courses or professor (emeritus) in medicine′′′; - declare Mr Mar De Hert's candidacy inadmissible and - to publish in the Belgian Monitor a new call for candidates not only for the sub-category ′′ charged with courses or professor (emeritus) in French-speaking medicine′′, but also for all categories of French-speaking member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 September 2021, I propose: - declare Mr Jean-Christophe Bier's candidature admissible for the category ′′doctor in medicine′′ but not for the subcategory ′′doctor or (emeritus) professor of medicine′′; - dismiss Mr Marc De Hert's candidature as inadmissible, and - a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal to publish not only for the subcategory French-speaking ′′doctor or (emeritus) professor of medicine′′ but also for all categories of French-speaking member. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u45	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill organizing the tax and social greening of mobility, No. 2170/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the tax and social greening of mobility, No. 2170/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u46	Madam Chair, This bill must come into force very quickly. I apologise to the parliamentarians, because I have forgotten the note that Mr. Van Peteghem had sent me. Anyway, there's an emergency. I don't have it! I'm not going to tell you a bunch of bad guys here in plenary at this hour. It's no longer worth it! I can't know everything! I've replaced a lot of them today. This is important in relation to the greening of the fleet. There is an urgent request for it to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u47	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u48	Madam President, we were waiting with interest for the argument that would convince us to support the request for urgency. However, I must confess that your powers of persuasion have failed here. Mr Colebunders indicated that the government could do with a few fewer members of the government, but more than one member might be advisable. We do not support urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u49	For the bill amending article 72 of the Judicial Code, document No. 2185/1, the request for an emergency is out of order because we examined the text earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u50	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u51	Madam President, we call for the urgency of proposal No 2162 to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the floods in Belgium in July 2021. More than two months later, people are still waiting for answers. Many issues are the responsibility of the federal government. For example, what has been the impact of cuts on Emergency Preparedness and the federal funding of relief areas? In itself, the impact of regionalisation is also something to be considered, as regionalisation may have played a role in the chaos that occurred during the floods. It is therefore important for us to conduct a national debate so as not to divide the issue. Of course, the floods took place in Wallonia, but I think all Belgians are involved. They showed it by coming from all over the country to help the affected areas. It is important that a federal commission work with the Walloon Commission to shed light on this disaster. The Walloon Commission has already begun its work. We believe that, at the federal level, we also need to get to it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u52	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u53	Mr De Roover, you ask the urgency of the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the circumstances that led to the floods in Belgium in July 2021, including the crisis response, the organisation of aid and its follow-up, no. 2168/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u54	Madam President, I hope that the rejection of the request for urgency has just been inspired by a primary anti-communism among some groups and not by the content of the question, which was, of course, entirely justified. Perhaps our motivation differs slightly from the one that Mr Merckx has just put forward, but there are indeed federal aspects to this terrible disaster. Moreover, it must not be assumed that such a thing will never happen again in the future. This means that we must examine all aspects of this. I would also like to refer to the events in the special co-vid committee. At the time of the installation it was foreseen that this special committee could be promoted or scaled up to a committee of inquiry if it appeared that the special committee's instrument would not be satisfactory. My group has taken particular care of this. That agreement was not honoured at the time, which means that a special committee can no longer be enough today and that there is a need for a parliamentary committee of inquiry. In fact, a number of groups in the majority supported this demand at Walloon level. The logic would escape me if the extension at federal level were now rejected. We are asking for urgency so that we can discuss this proposal very quickly. In fact, even those who oppose the setting up of a parliamentary committee of inquiry for some reason also have arguments to support the urgency. After all, we need to be able to clarify as quickly as possible the decision to be taken here, in particular on setting up or rejecting it. In both cases, the urgency is unmistakable. I am therefore counting on unanimous support for our question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u55	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u56	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 177/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Raskin; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Gaby Colebunders; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Dewael. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 177/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Raskin; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Gaby Colebunders; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u57	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u58	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u59	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u60	Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u61	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u62	Yes 93 Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 127 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u63	These motions were tabled in plenary on September 23, 2021. These motions were tabled in plenary session of 23 September 2021. four motions were filed in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Ms Kathleen Depoorter, Ms Frieda Gijbels and Ms Yngvild Ingels; - a second motion was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a third motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi; - a fourth motion was tabled by Messrs. Robby De Caluwé and Patrick Prévot and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Laurence H annoyée, Nawal Farih, Karin Jiroflée and Barbara Creemers. Four motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter, Mrs Frieda Gijbels and Mrs Yngvild Ingels; - a second motion was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a third motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi A fourth motion was tabled by Mr Robby De Caluwé and Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Mr Laurence Hennuy, Mr Nawal Farih, Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Barbara Creemers. I propose that you vote on the motions in chronological order of their tabling. I propose that you vote on the motions in the chronological order of referral. No objection? [[No]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Je mets aux voix la première motion, de Mmes Kathleen Depoorter, Frieda Gijbels et Yngvild Ingels. I put to the vote the first motion by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter, Mrs Frieda Gijbels and Mrs Yngvild Ingels. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u64	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total The motion was defeated. The motion has been rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] I put to the vote the second motion, by Mrs Sofie Merckx. I put to the vote the second motion by Mrs Sofie Merckx. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u65	Yes 13 Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 129 Total The motion was defeated. The motion has been rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] I put to the vote the third motion, by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi. I put Mrs Sophie Rohonyi's third motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u66	Yes 6 Yes No. [[109]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 125 Total The motion was defeated. The motion has been rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] I put to the vote the fourth motion, by Messrs. Robby De Caluwé and Patrick Prévot and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Laurence H annoyance, Nawal Farih, Karin Jiroflée and Barbara Creemers I put to the vote the fourth motion, tabled by Mr Robby De Caluwé and Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Nathalie Gilson, Mr Laurence Hennuy, Mr Nawal Farih, Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Barbara Creemers. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u67	Yes 70 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u68	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Sofie Merckx in recital J.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Sofie Merckx in recital J.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u69	Yes [[12]] Yes No. [[115]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 from Sofie Merckx on request 1.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Sofie Merckx at request 1.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u70	Yes 13 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 from Sophie Rohonyi on request 1.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Sophie Rohonyi at the request 1.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u71	Yes 13 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 from Sofie Merckx on request 3.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Sofie Merckx at request 3.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u72	Yes 13 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck (sub-amendment to Amendment No 11).(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck (subamendment to Amendment No 11).(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u73	Yes [[8]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Sophie Rohonyi to insert a request 4/1(n).(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Sophie Rohonyi to insert a request 4/1(n).(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u74	Yes 13 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 from Sofie Merckx on request 7.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Sofie Merckx at request 7.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u75	Yes 13 Yes No. 117 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 from Sophie Rohonyi on request 8.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sophie Rohonyi at the request 8.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u76	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 from Sophie Rohonyi on request 12.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sophie Rohonyi at the request 12.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u77	Yes 31 Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 from Sofie Merckx on request 14.(1815/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Sofie Merckx at request 14.(1815/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u78	Yes 13 Yes No. 116 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u80	Yes 78 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u82	Yes 91 Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2004/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No. 2004/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip125x.u83	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 September 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, September 30, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
