ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u1	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, you know that I am in favour of pursuing a deficit of 3% for the joint administration. Not only out of respect for the European budgetary objectives, but also because of my concern about the rising public debt and the need to stabilise them. Taking into account nominal GDP growth of around 3%, it is therefore necessary to limit the annual deficit to 3% in order to stabilise debt. According to the indicative path included in the 2021-2024 stability programme submitted to the European Commission at the end of April, a deficit of 3.7 % of GDP was recorded for the joint government in 2024. As explicitly stated in the stability programme, this process will have to be adjusted in the coming years, taking into account, inter alia, the impact of COOVID-19. It may be hoped that, against the preparation of the next stability programme, the uncertainty about both the sanitary situation and the economic environment has been removed. At that time, new arrangements will have to be made between the different authorities on the budgetary path for all subsequent years and, where appropriate, decisions will have to be made whether or not to use the flexibility clauses. In the federal government agreement, the fiscal policy guidelines for Entity I were defined. It was decided to carry out a cumulative, fixed effort of 0.2 % of GDP per year for the period 2021-2024. In the meantime, the necessary measures have been implemented. In addition, the government agreement provided for a variable effort dependent on the level of GDP and its growth. The size of this effort will be determined each year in the budget format. Based on the measures already decided on, the multiannual budget, included in the general explanatory memorandum to the initial budget for 2020, estimates the deficit for Entity I for 2024 at 2,6% of GDP, which is still well in line with the path for Entity I, in the stability programme. Moreover, this does not yet take into account the level of variable effort to be decided on in the next few years in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, journalists have, of course, asked a lot of questions about this 3% standard. That is an important figure. There is also a whole debate in the European Union about what should happen to this standard in the future. Many people have made statements about this, including the Minister of Finance, even though my oral question was referred from him to you. Also in the Seventh Day programme, the Minister literally said that our deficit will not be raised to 3% by 2022, but that these rules will apply again from 2023. So from that year on, we have to go back to that 3 % standard. I actually hear the same thing in your reply, Madam Secretary of State, because you are also saying that we must strive for 3% by 2023. On the other hand, let me point out that you should actually prepare that step in the 2022 budget, which is now before you for discussion. That, however, is missing. In the 2022 budget, we do not see what first steps are already being taken so that we can effectively move towards that 3% by 2023. You mention the figures both for the government as a whole and for Entity I of the federal government. The problem is, of course, that Europe is looking at the whole government. Recent media reports indicate that the budget situation in Brussels and Wallonia is seriously derailed. So it is all hands on deck, not just in the budget format for 2023, but already in the budget for 2022. After all, how will you avoid, if the European budget rules remain in place, that we will end up on the European criminal bench? We were almost on it already, because Belgium was already deliberated several times with heels over the ditch. I therefore believe that in the current budgetary exercise we should have seen the first signs, but unfortunately there are not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u3	The variable effort of 0.2 per cent of GDP (1 billion) already includes the income of the new securities tax (€430 million). Is it realistic and justified to include this yield in the variable effort? All the more so because in the meantime several petitions for the destruction of this new tax have already been submitted to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u4	Mr President, in drawing up the initial budget for 2022, the government has decided to make a variable effort of around EUR 1.5 billion or 0.3 % of GDP. This effort amounts to €2.2 billion or 0.4% of GDP in 2024. In addition, a new structural policy of around EUR 400 million has been created. A budget neutral tax shift of EUR 300 million at cruising speed is also foreseen and an additional investment boost of EUR 1 billion will be given in the coming years. We are also planning new reforms, including increasing the level of activity, promoting entrepreneurship and sustainability, with a shift towards climate neutrality by 2050. On the basis of current projections, this should lead to a continuous improvement in Entity I's balance of claims in the coming years, reducing the deficit of 5.5 % by 2021 to 2.6 % by 2024. Of course, Europe is not just taking stock of Entity I. However, this government accepts its responsibility to reduce the deficit as quickly as possible without reducing growth, of course as far as its powers are concerned. Whether these efforts will suffice will depend on the opinion of Europe. As you know, Europe is not assessing the sub-entities but the joint outcome of the various governments. As a federal government, we are therefore dependent on the budgetary policies of the various sub-governments. Budgetary policy is being put to the test there because of the shortage of water last summer and the enormous costs that the recovery will entail, moreover, at a time when the effects of the corona crisis are still perceptible. As for your question regarding the security tax, the agreement within the government is that it will be part of the variable effort. I assume that the Minister for Finance, Mr Van Peteghem, will exercise his powers correctly and will take the necessary steps if it appears that that security tax is being destroyed by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, we asked this question in preparation for the budget debate. She's a bit dated by now. This summer, you proposed an effort of 3 billion. Some of your colleagues spoke at that time about an effort of 1 billion. The Prime Minister then proposed the predictable compromise of 2 billion. The game was played neatly in the media, it yielded a lot of newspaper articles. However, we keep going in circles. I will not respond to this further and look forward to the more recent questions that will be addressed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, I am glad that the budget tables arrived this morning. This means that Parliament can finally get to work. The policy papers are discussed in the committees and it is necessary that this can be combined with the tables, because letters without figures are sometimes talk for the often. However, we will have to have a more thorough debate on the timing of the budget. According to the legal provision, it should actually be submitted on 15 October, whereas today it is already 17 November. That has been a problem in the past. I know that your services are working very hard to get those tables of hundreds of pages ready, but perhaps we should have a more fundamental debate on timing, so that this can be done in the future according to a more realistic scenario. My question, however, is about indexation. I would like to return to the exchange of views we have had recently on this subject. At that time, you announced that you would still have a number of meetings and that there would be new information on exceeding the central index. In the meantime, it's exceeded. It was initially foreseen that the next overrun would take place in June 2022, but that has already been brought forward to January. She might even happen sooner. Is that the case? What's the latest on that? I've already checked the tables, but I haven't found any information yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u7	Mr President, Mr Loones, I share your view that we need to look at the budgetary timetable and analyse how we can optimise it so that Parliament has the necessary documents when the discussions take place. A first rough estimate of the impact of the direct effects of exceeding the spill index in January 2022 instead of June 2022 would, on the expenditure side, generate additional costs of just over EUR 700 million compared to the September Monitoring Committee's estimates. Social benefits would increase by around EUR 620 million. The cost of the federal officials' wages would increase by 52 million euros. The remaining costs in primary expenditure, such as living wages, the income guarantee for older people and the allowance for disabled people, would increase by around €38 million. As I mentioned earlier, an early overrun of the central index also has a positive impact on the revenue side. Compared to the September Monitoring Committee's estimates, revenue would increase by just over EUR 600 million, at least in terms of directly measurable impacts. For example, income from social contributions would increase by around EUR 235 million and income from the farm levy would increase by around EUR 375 million. The above figures do not yet take into account the effect of an increase in the general price level on VAT receipts. If this were to be passed on to 100%, i.e. without taking into account any adjustment in consumption, this would give rise to some EUR 220 million of additional revenue. These estimates also did not take into account any derived effects. This can only happen when the next economic budget of the Federal Planning Office is available. At that time, the overall macroeconomic impact of accelerating inflation will be included in the various economic parameters and the Monitoring Committee will be able to make a new estimate of the budgetary situation. That will then form the basis for the preparation of budgetary control. Pending this new economic budget, which may in principle be expected at the beginning of February, the necessary appropriations have already been provided for in respect of primary expenditure. For the preparation of the 2022 budget, on the basis of the above figures, the acceleration of inflation was assumed to be neutral for Entity I's balance sheet. This hypothesis of neutrality of the balance of claims against inflation fluctuations or shifts at the time of the overrun of the central index was already used in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you are still assuming that the central index will be exceeded in January. That is the most relevant thing for people to know where they are and what they can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, we have discussed repeatedly before that expenditure and savings should be entered in the budget in the most specific way, i.e. allocated to the appropriate budget line. That has been different in the past. Also due to the corona crisis it was difficult to do so quickly and therefore the working method was adjusted in stages. I understand that you are now taking a step to refine the specificity of the budget. You also sent a letter on this matter to the Monitoring Committee. Can we get that letter? How do you see that? I assume that you have a plan of action for this and you will take further steps. Finally, it is also part of the mission of all public administrations to save 1.11%. You gave guidelines on this in September. We had also requested them and we received them yesterday in our mailbox, for which we thank you. The directives state that the public authorities themselves can decide how they want to save 1.1%. Do you have any idea how they'll do that? Will they proceed to linear savings or are there discussions going on with your services in which they take a certain policy margin, so that it does not become a cheese-shape but goes further into depth? From the contacts I have with ministers, I conclude that it is mainly about shaving. It would be good to get a picture of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u10	Mr Loones, the Monitoring Committee is an administrative body composed of members of the FOD BOSA, the FOD Finance, the FOD Social Affairs, the RSZ, the RSVZ, the RIZIV and the Treasury Inspectorate. The Monitoring Committee therefore acts autonomously and determines the assumptions it takes into account when assessing the budgetary situation. It formulates the main assumptions, traditionally in the first chapter of the report. For the processing of linear savings, the Monitoring Committee worked with the most recent information for the September report. The previous report of the Monitoring Committee dates from 13 July. The letter I sent to all the members of the government, which included the distribution of linear savings between the departments and institutions of public benefit and the public institutions of social security, dates from 16 July. Consequently, the Monitoring Committee decided to incorporate the figures of the letter of 16 July in the September report. In addition, the departments were given the opportunity to redistribute the savings. This process was completed at the beginning of September and could therefore be included in the Monitoring Committee's report. In the meantime, you have received the documents you requested. If that is not the case, you will receive a copy through the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u11	Thank you for the answer. We are happy to support the evolution of budgeting as specific as possible. We look forward to further action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, I recently asked you a written question on the remarks made by the Walloon Minister for the Budget, Mr Crücke. In the answer you gave me, you wrote that there was a meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget on Tuesday 21 September, at which Minister Crücke was also present. In the various points, the Regions were reminded that, in the context of the preparatory work for the draft budget plan, they were required to provide their information, including the information on the floods, by 30 September. Each Land may be expected to take the necessary measures and draw up action plans to avoid a derailment of the budgetary situation. In view of the Belgian institutional context, the federal government may impose few binding measures on the Länder in budgetary terms. They are themselves responsible for their budgetary policies. Of course, that is self-evident, but it aroused my interest. Have all the states respected the agreements made at that conference? Did they respect the deadline of September 30th? If not, which states submitted their information too late, and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u13	The various Länder provided information on the preparation of the draft budget plan. In view of the fact that the September economic budget was only published on 9 September, the deadline set was very tight. Most Communities and Regions only completed their budgetary negotiations at the end of September or during the first weeks of October. No Land has therefore reached the date of 30 September. I do not have the details of each individual state here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u14	That's an old very. It is always very difficult in Belgium to coordinate all this. For us, it is very unclear what exactly is going on in these meetings. Is there really a debate and discussion there, or is it rather formal? That's why I'm asking questions about that. I understand now that the agreements were not respected and that everyone was too late. I can see that this is typically Belgian, given the time when the budget was discussed here at the federal level. In the meantime, we have a little bit more insight into how that all works, for which thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u15	I give the floor to Mr Loones to answer his question. 55021865C on 'The budget'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u16	Mr President, this question has become obsolete, and we have now received the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, during the budgetary negotiations, the government decided to invest an additional billion euros over and above the resources of the European Recovery Fund over the next three years. On Thursday 14 October 2021, Parliament was sent a French-language list of investments planned by the government in the declaration of government. They had not even bothered to have it translated into Dutch, hence the French title of my question. I deliberately kept it that way because it is particularly regrettable that Parliament is not getting these things in Dutch. It would show some respect for the majority in this country, the Flemings, should such tables be drawn up at least in Dutch and translated into French, but we will not have that language discussion here. The list includes investment projects. I've requested them all. With regard to budget and finance, I have, of course, requested them in writing. Het 22ste investmentsproject is improving the budgetary treatment of intra-Belgian public investment. That is both a responsibility of Thomas Dermine, Secretary of State for Relance and Strategic Investments, and of you. This is an investment amount pro memorabilia. I would like a detailed explanation of that particular investment project. Are the investment project and the specific investment amount still divided? I don't think so, because there's no amount. Under which category of investment can we classify the specific investment project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u18	The investment project you mentioned is not a classic investment project. It must also be seen together with the line 25 from the table you quoted, la position de la Belgique dans le débat sur le pacte de stabilité et de croissance, on which you also put an oral question. The objective of line 21 in the table, better budgetary treatment of public investment, is to assess whether an adjustment of its own internal budgetary rules and administrative rules and procedures can create a better or more stable environment, initially for public investment in the federal government, but possibly also between the different authorities. It should be considered whether the current rules, for example for the consolidated entities, where they are expected to present an ESA balance that is not negative, cannot be more flexible, for example by allowing a negative ESA balance in a given year due to an investment if it is offset by surpluses in the years before or after. There are therefore no direct budgets, participations or other financial transactions involved in the project. This explains why there is a statement in the table for the cost of the budget. The discussion on possible adjustments will be prepared by the relevant Cabinets supported by the FOD BOSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u19	Mr President, this answer is in line with the answer to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Also this line from the table should not be seen as a classic investment path. As you know, there will be a debate at European level on possible adjustments to the budgetary framework, as defined in the Stability and Growth Pact. This discussion was originally planned for 2020 but was postponed as a result of corona. It is the intention of the ministers concerned to jointly define the Belgian position. This should ensure a realistic path of deleveraging and pay particular attention to the level of public investment within the routes of government balances. These have often been the first instrument for achieving savings in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, it is remarkable that taking a position in a debate is also seen as an investment. It is particularly remarkable to include that in that list. Actually, that doesn't belong there, it's not a real investment because it's about developing a policy. It is rather weedy that Belgium should take a position in that debate on the Stability and Growth Pact. That was actually already clear for this whole budgetary exercise. So that's very strange. What is that doing here in the investment table, in the list of investments? I take note of that. I have also asked about the other investments, by means of a written question to your colleagues. I hope to gain more insight into the government's plans. In any case, it is very strange to cut it down into that billion euro investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u21	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this is an important question about the degree of debt. When discussing the government's statement, you said the following in Parliament, and I quote: 'As far as public debt is concerned, the full calculation is still under way, because the budget decision will be delivered to Europe by tomorrow in a draft budgetary plan.' It was then 14 October and those documents had to be submitted by 15 October at the latest. "There will be a slight decline in public debt in 2022, but further efforts will be needed in the long term." A little later, you also said: 'Let me return to the most important conclusion, which I think is that we have embarked on the road to budgetary recovery and that we will continue along that road. That's important, because that's the way to get control of our sovereign debt, which I'm really working on. If we don't get the sovereign debt under control, the sovereign debt will eventually get us under control. It's about money going to pay off, money that we can't free up to new challenges. Partly because of the efforts we are making today, we are able to bring public debt under control. Before the start of the government, it seemed that the government debt would go rapidly to 120 percent of GDP. We have averted that scenario. We will continue to do so, because I think that is incredibly important." That quote almost speaks euphoria on government banks. The hangover however came the next day. Belgium's draft budget for 2022, presented on 15 October, says exactly the opposite of what you said in Parliament, namely that debt levels are rising further. So great was our wonder. It says literally: "In 2020, debt ratio deteriorated to 114.1 % of GDP as a result of the corona crisis. On the basis of the expected balance of claims, the debt ratio of the joint government for 2021 is currently estimated at 113,9 % of GDP. Taking into account the growth assumptions and the expected balance of payments mentioned above, the debt ratio would increase to 114.3 % of GDP in 2022." Firstly, how do you explain that a few hours after the announced decline, the debt ratio will continue to rise in 2022? Madam Secretary of State, it is difficult for me to imagine that people have adjusted the figures at night, so that at 9:00 a.m., they can produce figures other than those you had in front of you in Parliament. Secondly, how do you intend to achieve a sustainable level of debt in order to cope with future crises? Thirdly, in the light of the increasing debt, how do you intend to continue to increase public investment, particularly in view of the fact that the Commission is taking into account investments outside the budget? In the meantime, we already have some answers to that. This government would call for an exception for green investments to the 3% standard in Maastricht. I look forward to your answer and the mystical explanation of what happened that night.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u22	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, during the declaration of government, I referred to the evolution of the degree of debt in the federal government. It will indeed fall in 2022. The increase in debt in the draft budgetary plan is due to the evolution of the combined government deficit, in particular the sharp increase in the deficit of the Communities and the Regions compared to what was initially estimated. As I pointed out in the answer to your question on the evolution of the government deficit, the Monitoring Committee was obliged to use the estimates of Entity II's balance in September from the July report, which in itself were based on the estimates of the June Federal Planning Office. These were corrected for the September report for the new estimates of transfers under the Special Financing Act. No more recent estimates were available at that time. It was only when the draft budget plan was drawn up that the Communities and the Regions, although often at the end of the period, which was just before the deadline for submitting the draft budget plan, could provide input on the estimated nominal balance after conclave decision. On the basis of the information transmitted, the Communities and the Regions present an estimated deficit of around EUR 4 billion both for 2021 and 2022, which is higher than that taken into account in the September Monitoring Committee report. I have said several times that achieving debt stabilization and reversing debt growth is important. I am still in favour of achieving a deficit of 3% or less, not primarily out of respect for the European budgetary objectives, although of course they are important, but because of my concern about the rising level of debt and the need to stabilise them. Taking into account nominal GDP growth of around 3%, it is also necessary to limit the annual deficit to 3% in order to stabilise debt. Public investment plays a major role in this. Productive investments can make an important contribution to our growth. It is therefore important not to save on this and to free up sufficient budgetary margin within our budgetary objectives, clearly analysing to what extent these investments are indeed productive and can contribute to that growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, if you give a spoken statement in Parliament, we are of course in dubio whether you are talking about the entities as a whole or about Entity I. If, in a spoken statement, which we must hear on the ground, you are talking about the draft budget plan for Europe and in the following sentence you say that there will be a slight decline in public debt, then we assume, as a listener, that you are talking about the sovereign debt an sich, for the whole of the government, including Entity II and the other entities. That's some kind of rhetorical game. We hope that you will be clearer in the future. Not only have we stumbled upon your words, but the press has also stumbled upon them. The statements in Parliament were not in line with what was finally published in Europe. After all, many newspapers effectively spread the message you sent to Parliament on Friday, in particular that the rate of debt was falling. In the facts, however, he rose into the draft budget plan. So let us be clearer about this in the future. We, the opposition, will certainly ask, when you make such statements, whether you mean the government as a whole or the federal government or Entity I an sich.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u24	Mr Vermeersch, may I draw your attention to the fact that you do not have any problems with a standard or hierarchy of standards? You are asking yourself whether the Secretary of State can or should talk about global debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u25	Mr President, I am in favour of budgetary autonomy for the Länder, should there be any doubt. The Flemish state must regulate its budget itself. There is certainly no hierarchy, where the federal government can decide what, for example, the Flemish government or the Walloon government should do. However, we are in the same boat. We, Flemings, have to note that certain parts of the country have little interest in the budgetary aspects of the whole situation. It is not difficult in Belgium, but the best student in the class is Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u26	Good students are nowhere at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u27	Mr President, is this an exchange of views? Well, in that case, I'd like to talk to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u28	You may speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u29	Mr President, we are going to take a pint after this. Mr President, I would just like to make a few points. I spoke in Parliament on 12 October 2021. The next two days we have only received the most recent information. So there were two days in between.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, the statements I quote come from Thursday evening's report. We have debated for several days, as you will remember. Mr Loones and I were the last to speak. At that time, you also gave a reply, in which you made those statements, a few hours before the draft budget plan was published on the European Commission's web site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u31	Mr Vermeersch, at that time we really did not have the figures for the regions. So I based myself on the figures I did have at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u32	It seems very strange to me that you did not have the figures for the Länder a few hours before the publication on the European Commission's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u33	We work day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, you made those statements at 8 p.m. and on Friday at 9 p.m. the draft budget plan was already online on the website of the European Commission. So we assume that you already had the final version in your hands at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u35	At the State of the Union, we heard that the government wants to impose additional excise duties on tobacco and that it is counting on a yield of EUR 120 million. The Prime Minister said in the press that this amounts to about 25 euro cents extra per packet of 20 cigarettes. Those amounts are beginning to rise sharply. What exactly are your plans with that? I also ask this question because we have now received the budget figures. On page 26, it says that the expected revenue from excise duties on tobacco is EUR 2.6 billion in 2021 and EUR 2.97 billion in 2022. So that is not a difference of EUR 120 million, as the government stated in the State of the Union, but a difference of EUR 314 million. What exactly is going on here? Will excise duties increase by EUR 120 million or EUR 314 million, as stated in the budget tables? We are talking about different amounts of money. If it is an increase of 314 million euros, it is not 25 euro cents per package but 70 euro cents. Moreover, excise duties on tobacco have already increased enormously since they amounted to around 2 billion by 2020 and will be close to EUR 3 billion by 2022. So that's an extra EUR 1 billion. I suppose you will answer that you want to discourage people from smoking with your policy, and that might be much faster than you think, since you are going through a tax increase of almost 50% in two years. The question is therefore whether the estimated yield will be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u36	Mr Loones, in your written question, you did not ask how much euro cents would be added. Perhaps you are now asking this question as a result of the answer you have received to another question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u37	I asked in response to the Prime Minister's statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u38	I cannot give you the answer to that now, and I will give you the answer that has been prepared. For further details you may be able to submit a new question, then we can deal with it later. You yourself have already said what my answer will be. In politics it is indeed about making choices, although within a certain budgetary context. The government's choice here is to discourage the use of unhealthy tobacco products. It realizes this by increasing excise duties on tobacco. I believe that this is also a sensible choice by the government. This opinion is also shared by the Foundation against Cancer. I quote: "According to the World Health Organisation, the World Bank and scientific literature, increasing excise duties on tobacco products is the most effective policy measure to reduce tobacco consumption. Higher prices motivate smokers to quit smoking and raise the threshold for non-smokers and young people to start smoking. They also reduce the risk of relapse for those who quit smoking and reduce the number of smoked cigarettes among smokers who continue to smoke." The fact that, despite the dissuasive effect, additional yields are achieved can be explained by the effect of the increase in excise duties, which is higher than the reduction in tobacco consumption. In the long term, if that means that there are no returns and everyone stops smoking, then I too, as a politician, am satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u39	Did I understand correctly that Mr Loones had already given the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u40	Mr President, he had already said what I would answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u41	Perhaps we can simplify and set this up in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u42	Mr President, if the answers are predictable, there is little I can do about it. Madam Secretary of State, I understand your reasoning. It's a pleasure for you to say that you care about health. I'm not a smoker either. I don't run propaganda. I can imagine that you, as a politician, are satisfied with this, but I do not know whether you, as Secretary of State for the Budget, will be satisfied with it. It's about EUR 3 billion less revenue. We may find this less important in policy terms, but it is about EUR 3 billion. That's a small shot in the bow. I would like more information on this. The government had announced that an additional EUR 120 million would be raised in 2022 compared to 2021. In your budget table I received today, there is a difference of EUR 314 million. That's almost three times as much. If there's any explanation for that, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u43	We will discuss this further in the coming weeks, but part of it comes from additional revenues that are expected on the basis of evolution. That's how we get that amount. We will certainly go into it in detail. If everyone stops smoking, the RIZIV will also have less spending in the long term. Maybe that compensates for the loss of income.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u44	Then I hope that it will be EUR 3 billion less in expenditure. I am now looking at this from the budget point of view, not as someone who shares your interest in people's health. There can also be a very interesting institutional debate on the share of preventive and curative policies and on who should benefit from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u45	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a lot of ink has already flowed over the flight tax. Your government has decided to introduce a boarding tax. European regulations require you to watch your words and do not use the word "fly tax'. That boarding fee would be worth about 30 million euros. This would be the subject of a legislative amendment which Parliament will have to vote on at the end of the year, so that you can get the EUR 30 million next year. We note that this amount of EUR 30 million has been included in your budget tables we have just received (see p. 230 of the budget). However, the legal basis does not appear to exist. After all, there are some unofficial versions of the government's programme law, in which nothing has yet been said about the flight tax. How's that right? I assume that you do not wish to enter any amounts in your budget that are not substantiated. Is the flight tax coming or not? How will it be worked out? Does it suddenly appear in the programme law which we have not yet seen, but which has to be debated in Parliament by the end of the year? You're from Flemish Brabant. Do you think that's a good idea now? The airport of Zaventem has already been hit hard. I am sure you take the economic sector and the cluster of the airport very much to heart, but there are strange stories about the flight tax. It would be a tax on flights of less than 500 km, but Charleroi airport would be exempt from it. It would only be charged to your airport. That's a little weird, isn't it? I trust you'll stand up for Zaventem airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u46	Everyone agrees that green taxes are an instrument that, as part of a wider policy, can contribute to achieving environmental objectives, adapting people's behaviour, greening the economy. As with all behavior-changing loads, there is of course always a tension between the yield and the intended goal. However, I am convinced that we should move earlier towards reducing labour costs and seeking other sources of funding for the government. That is the path we must take with regard to budgetary measures. The return on these budgetary measures will be monitored and we will look into it in subsequent exercises. For more technical information on the flight tax, I have to refer you to the Minister of Finance. He's working it out. That's his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u47	This discussion will certainly come back. If you receive any additional information, I'd be delighted to receive it. If you want to conduct policy to avoid short flights, do so, but do it for everyone. If the flight tax would not apply to Charleroi but would apply to Zaventem, just pierce your own story. Then it is not about greening industry or another way of assessing, with less labour costs and more pollution, but about a new aid measure for a Walloon airport and further damaging the Flemish airport. That's just not right. Technically, that is indeed the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, he has to work on this. As Secretary of State for the Budget from Flemish Brabant, you will certainly stop doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u48	The boarding fee is included in a separate bill together with, for example, the extinction of the BBSZ and other compensatory measures, with all the elements of the tax shift. For the timeline, you should also address Mr Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u49	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55022424C and 55022427C by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u50	Mr President, everyone agrees that more people need to work and that we need to look less negatively at long-term sick people. We can no longer look at what people can no longer do, we must find out what they can still do. Many long-term sick people are also asking for a gradual reintegration into the labour market in order to develop their future. The activation of long-term sick is therefore a very good policy objective. The question is, of course, how it can be achieved. However, we do not hear much about this. We had discussions on this with the Minister of Health during the debate on the State of the Union. At that time Minister Vandenbroucke fell somewhat to pieces. The activation of long-term sick people apparently has to raise EUR 50 million in 2022, EUR 150 million in 2023 and EUR 200 million in 2024. These are necessary amounts because it is a necessary policy exercise. However, these amounts are not substantiated. It is typically one of the points for which I look forward to the forthcoming analysis of your budget by the Court of Auditors, which has rightly been quite critical in the past of the payback effects recorded in the budget. I assume that you are adding extra caution and that you do not necessarily take Mr Vandenbroucke's wishes for reality. Is that so, or are you just writing in what Secretary Vandenbroucke is asking?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u51	Mr President, this government has taken a global approach, with people being supported on the one hand in returning to work and on the other hand in financially responding to the various parties on the other. As with any budgetary measure, the budgetary impact of this measure will be assessed in the context of the preparation of the next budgetary exercise. Of course, we have also made the necessary analyses in drawing up this budget with regard to the recovery effects and the possible overall yield. If necessary, we will, of course, adjust the budget for 2023. Such a measure will be monitored very closely, and we will monitor the budgetary effects of this measure very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, we will follow that up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, this question about the proceeds of the fight against tax and social fraud will undoubtedly be followed up by colleagues from PS. We all agree that if everyone pays their fair share of taxes, the tax burden can really be reduced and the honest people will have to pay a little less tax. That's supposed to be the point. There is a great ambition within your government to tackle tax and social fraud, or at least a major budgetary ambition. We haven't seen exactly how she's gonna make it happen. Yesterday, moreover, Ecolo was very critical of the Minister of Finance, who presented his policy paper. I even wondered if that party was still part of the government with you. It is clear that some government partners, namely Ecolo and the PS, have doubts about the ability of the Minister of Finance to implement the fight against tax fraud. The PS has repeatedly communicated very critically that it is still waiting for the first plan of the Minister of Finance, while it is already announcing that a second plan will be drawn up. I don't know if you've seen that plan that underpins those numbers. It would be more than 1 billion, with an additional 400 million for next year alone. Have you seen that plan yet? Ecolo and PS seem not yet, but as Secretary of State for the Budget, you may have insider information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u54	Mr Loones, the government does indeed want to continue the fight against fraud, as fraud undermines the justice of the system. To this end, under the chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, and under the vice-presidentship of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment, the operation of the College for the fight against social and fiscal fraud has been re-established. The College has developed projects that strengthen the government's coordinated fraud policy. The projects were included in a first action plan approved by the Ministerial Committee on the fight against tax and social fraud. A second action plan on "international" has been drawn up to be presented to the government this year. An anti-fraud policy is therefore being developed together with all actors with powers in the field of fraud. May I advise you to address your question to the Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud? The amounts quoted by you were indeed agreed in the government and are included in the annual fixed effort of 0.2 % of GDP. It is therefore a commitment which I, as Secretary of State for the Budget, expect the relevant ministers to take the necessary steps to achieve the agreed returns. We will monitor and monitor this very closely from the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. It is not fair that you are always in the shooting booth when you are not the trade minister. We know that, too, and I respect that. You're not the Minister of Finance. Of course, we will take that up with him, as far as we can go more punishing than Ecolo and PS. We will continue to do so in the Finance Committee. That being said, you are Secretary of State for the Budget. As regards the monitoring of the figures, first it was about 200 million, then it will be 400 million, later 700 million and in 2024 1 billion. It's probably gonna take a lot of math to justify that. We will confront the Minister of Finance, but you will no doubt be aware that this little ball will also come in your direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u56	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we have already discussed the timetable of the budget at the beginning of this committee meeting. I would like to take the opportunity to replicate your answer and thank you for the openness. We really need to look at how we can optimise the flow of information and how it can be achieved. I'd like to steal a question from you earlier. It's all connected. If more time is taken at federal level, the Länder will only have the information on the basis of which they will then be able to work to draw up their budget. This may cause you to face special questions in debates. We need to see the totality of that exercise. It is also important for the predictability of the revenue of the Länder. As long as they don't have that information, they can't get to work. I would therefore ask you once again to start budgetary control in the summer. Perhaps we should further anchor this in legislation in some way, which would make you stronger at the negotiating table. We should have that debate, it might be worth it. There is, of course, a more enjoyable debate that we can have, namely the debate on fiscal autonomy. This would perhaps make it a little easier for the Länder to estimate what revenue they have and, on that basis, to pursue a sound policy. I am sure that this debate will come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u57	That is not really a question, I think, although we can discuss it. Budgetary control and budget formulation are divided into several parts. In administrative terms, of course, this is already being started a long time ago. That's not the problem. We can see how the timetable can be adjusted to allow more time for all parts of the process. I'm certainly willing to think about that and sit with others. What I do have on hammer, and what I also think is important, is that there is very good cooperation with the Länder. Discussions should therefore be conducted with an open mind in which everyone around the table wants to cooperate constructively to find solutions. I will certainly find out in what way I can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u58	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, part of the budgetary effort, namely the fixed effort of 0.2 per cent of gross domestic product agreed in the government agreement, the impact of the securities tax as part of the variable effort and the higher than expected revenue from VAT and excise duties on tobacco, as I mentioned earlier from the fixed effort, was already included in the monitoring committee's estimate. Although there was a commitment within the government to realise these efforts, that is why they have already been taken into account in the monitoring committee's estimates, of course the government still needs to make them concrete. That is what the government is now doing with the format of the initial budget for 2022. The sharp increase in the combined deficit is due to the much worse situation of the Communities and the regions than initially estimated. For the estimates of the balance of the joint government, the Monitoring Committee required the estimates it used in the July report, based on the June estimates of the Federal Planning Office, but adjusted for the new estimates under the Special Financing Act, as no new recent estimates were available to Entity II. Only when the draft budget plan was drawn up did the Communities and the Regions, although often at a standstill, provide input on their estimated nominal balance, after conclave. In this way, the Communities and the Regions have an estimated deficit of EUR 8.5 billion for 2022, while the Monitoring Committee report was still based on a deficit of EUR 4.5 billion. So there is the big difference, which, of course, has a major impact on the level of debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I now have the advantage of putting the monitoring committee's report alongside the draft budget plan. The government's statements in Parliament can therefore now be assessed in the light of reality. Both in the press and in Parliament, you have pointed out, even today, that you are making an effort of 0.3%, equivalent to EUR 1.5 billion. However, anyone who puts the Monitoring Committee's report alongside the draft budget plan sees only a difference of a few tens of millions of euros, an effort of just a few hundredths of a percentage point. That gives a look at the explanations versus reality. You also refer to the government as a whole. That was the second part of my question. In fact, we have to find out together that the figures are dramatic. We have already had the debate, and it is obviously not up to the Federal Secretary of State for the Budget to call the Länder to order. We will certainly do so in Parliament during the budget debate. So that's where things are going completely wrong in this country. A solution must therefore be sought urgently. That solution is, of course, as much autonomy as possible for the Länder, so that everyone cooks their own pot and takes their own responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u60	The difference between the Monitoring Committee's report and the draft budget is, of course, also the fact that we have new policies and therefore new expenditure. Of course, they are not taken over by the Monitoring Committee, because that is not what the new policy determines. That must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u61	That is absolutely correct, but you are selling it in Parliament with a rhetorical trick. You did the same thing in the press. You say that the government is making a variable effort of 1.5 billion, but you forget to mention that on the other hand you are immediately spending 1 billion, leaving only 0.5 billion. If we look at the figures in detail, only a few tens of millions of euros will be cleaned up. Actually, there's nothing sanitized at all, that's reality. This government hasn't made a preliminaries yet. If one wants to evolve to the target 3 % in 2023, one should have started in 2022. With this government, it's just not possible to clean up. With the coalition partners you have today, especially the PS, it is simply impossible to put budgetary order in order. That is the reality. We also see this in the totally derailed figures in Brussels and Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, we have learned a new word: Dunkelflaute. This means that there is no wind, which means that the windmills run less at sea and the energy capacity is lower. If that is the case, there are fewer revenues and additional costs. The government wants to place a lot of extra windmills in the North Sea. This can be the subject of a whole debate, and it now appears that the CREG also has questions. According to the CREG, the plans of the past were not entirely realistic and the costs would also be higher than budgeted. This is contained in a confidential opinion drawn up by the CREG on this subject. We didn't see that. Whether that advice exists or not, I assume that you will be given the full file if Minister Van der Straeten presents it to you. Have you received a file and what exactly is in it? What is the financial year of the dossier? I have established that the revenues and costs of the offshore wind turbines in the 2021 budget are the same as the amounts you subscribe to in the 2022 budget. So you do not take into account higher costs or less revenue in the budget, whereas the CREG says that this is not justified in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u63	Mr Loones, on the extension of offshore wind capacity in the Belgian North Sea, a study was commissioned in the framework of the technical preliminary studies of the installation of offshore wind capacity in the Princess Elisabeth zone to calculate the difference in cost of generating electricity, called LCOE or levelized cost of energy, in different scenarios. The study shows that it is possible to install a higher capacity than initially planned in the above zone. I would also like to point out that there is no clear relationship between the calculated LCOE of a project and the amount of any subsidy. This depends, inter alia, on the award procedure, the assessment of the LCOE of the candidate investors themselves and the competitiveness between the different candidate investors. The opinion of the CREG you are discussing is indeed confidential and it is not for me to comment on it. For further questions, please refer to the Energy and North Sea Ministers in the relevant committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u64	I will certainly do so, Madam Secretary of State, but I do not agree with your answer that this confidential advice does not concern you, because it indicates a clear budgetary risk and that is your responsibility. I understand you have the advice or at least know it exists. It has therefore been confirmed that there is such an opinion. I therefore expect you, as Secretary of State for the Budget, to take this into account when registering the figures. Once again, I note that you are applying the same figures for next year as for this year. I can imagine that, because the mills still have to be built or because the costs are spread over time. That is all possible, but I would like to know so that we can at least feel that you are facing the budgetary risk. We will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u65	As part of a broader plan to get more people back to work, it was indeed decided to provide additional funding for the regional employment services, coupled with objectives that make the regions responsible for making the best use of resources. The existing budget guaranteeing basic funding will be strengthened from 2023 with an additional budget supporting the storytelling of the ambitions of more routes in the regions, with a stronger proportional catch-up operation for the regions lagging behind today's guidance ratio. This additional funding is carried out through an annual additional amount in envelopes, consisting of the number of additional sections to be completed compared to 2022, times 4,000 euros per route. A budget of €15.4 million was earmarked for this purpose in 2023 and €39.4 million in 2024. Minister Vandenbroucke is responsible for the further concrete elaboration of this measure. It is therefore better to ask the questions directly to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, in the newspaper De Tijd, the Secretary of State for Relance advocated more flexible Maastricht standards for climate investment. According to the Secretary of State, over the next ten years, EUR 5,000 billion of investment will be needed to meet the Paris objectives. According to the Secretary of State, these ambitions conflict with the budget standard of 3%. That's why he advocated immunity from green investments. Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, you argued last summer in an interview in Le Soir that the budget deficit would increase to 3% by 2024. In other words, you said that we would have to reach 3% by the end of the legislature. The Secretary of State for Relance also noted that the European debt ratio would increase from 100 % to 137 % of gross domestic product if we invested EUR 5 000 billion over the next 10 years. This increase would be relative, because current interest rates would reduce the risk of long-term debt. That was again a quote from the Secretary of State in question. I have a number of questions concerning these remarkable statements. In your capacity as Secretary of State for the Budget, do you share the view that green climate investment should no longer count for the 3% standard? In your capacity as Secretary of State for the Budget, do you share the view that the 60% standard on public debt should be lifted? In your capacity as Secretary of State for the Budget, do you consider it desirable to relax European budgetary rules in the light of increased budget deficits and the public debt of the joint governments in this country? What is your position on the future of European budgetary rules? Have you already discussed this position with your colleagues at regional level? How will we arrive at a common position?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u67	Mr Vermeersch, I have to return to your question about the investment plan and the investment project 'La position sur le PSC', Question No 55021917C. The aim of this project is to reach a government position that can be defended in Europe, in consultation with the ministers and State Secretary concerned. I would prefer to commit myself to achieving a solid, united position above making statements on my own behalf. As I said, I am in favour of cooperation. I certainly want to sit down with the Länder to see how we can organise the whole Belgian budgetary policy properly. As you know, in general, I am more in favour of budgetary orthodoxy and I would like to keep an eye on the money. I want to get a good picture of everything in the budgets. I will discuss this with my colleagues in order to formulate a united Belgian position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, I am somewhat shocked by your reply. In the past week we have been able to read very different things in the press. Apparently, the federal government would have figured it out by now. For you, the European budgetary standards must remain, with the limits of 3% and 60%. There could be an exception to the 3% standard for climate investment. Apparently, the PS proposal to create European debts, namely to roll out the European Recovery Fund in the future to finance climate investment, would not have been stopped by the government. That's what Time writes. That article also said that the PS proposal was considered unachievable. What appears in Time cannot be confirmed in Parliament. You are simply saying that you do not yet have a position, whereas it seems that a position is already being taken in the newspapers. I will ask another question about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u69	Madam President, excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u70	I read in a ten-page guide from the University of Antwerp that one should be very careful not to miss anyone, but I am still male, Mr Vermeersch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u71	There are also a lot of gradations in the kind of man or woman now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u72	I'm just a man, until further notice. I'm a father and a grandfather.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u73	A white man may be wrong, too, according to some climate experts in this country, but that's not a discussion to have here. Madam Secretary of State, Mr Loones just had a question about the central index and the price increases. I questioned you about this earlier this year. You said that this was not a problem, if there are price increases and if the central index is exceeded, it is budget-neutral. I'm not really convinced of that. I see a lot of negative effects. Energy prices have been rising in this country and abroad for several months and have been controlling the news for weeks. Not only our people and businesses feel that in the money bracket, high energy prices also have an impact on the budget. Is there a positive effect? Of course. There is a direct increase in VAT revenue on those energy products, that is clear, but there are mainly negative budgetary effects. At least I am convinced of that. For example, there are more spending on wages and benefits, because the share of energy in the health index is greater than actual consumption, which leads to a faster overrun of that central index. Alerting reports on the rise in energy prices also, I believe, affect consumer confidence, which has a direct impact on VAT revenues from consumer goods. Higher energy prices also affect the margins and profits of our companies, which leads to less revenue from taxes. Moreover, there can be a direct impact on production. BASF recently stopped production of a number of products because of high gas prices. An additional effect is, of course, that a reduction in consumer confidence and corporate margins will ultimately affect growth in this country, which in turn has a different budgetary impact. Madam Secretary of State, can you agree with this analysis? Do you share the view that the negative effects on the budget of rising energy prices far exceed the positive effects and that there is therefore a global negative impact on the budget? Do you have a rough estimate of the overall budgetary impact of higher energy prices on the federal government budget deficit, the social security budget deficit, think about benefits and the social security balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u74	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, as you yourself point out in your question, higher energy prices can move on to different components of our economic system and thus impact the budget, both directly, through higher energy costs for the government itself or targeted measures such as the expansion of the social tariff, as well as indirectly, for example, through the impact on private consumption or business activity. The only way to measure its impact on the budget in advance could be to ask the Federal Planning Office for two economic budgets. One budget that takes into account higher energy prices and another that should be seen as a kind of zero measurement. Subsequently, revenue and expenditure can then be estimated on the basis of these two assumptions. Older documents from the Federal Planning Office indicate that rising energy prices have a negative impact on global public finances. As far as the mere effect of higher inflation is concerned, calculations show that its effect is relatively neutral for the federal government. I would also refer to the answer to Mr Loones' question on the impact of exceeding the central index. For the answer to your question, we will have to look at how everything is evolving and make adjustments if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u75	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I look forward to the reports of the European Commission and the Court of Auditors, because I cannot get rid of the impression that they will also be asking questions about your budget in this area. Their questions will relate to the fact that this government is too optimistic. The impact of the overruns of the central index and the price increases are under-calculated in the budget. These effects are not new, they have been there since September and are getting even stronger. I therefore believe that the comments of the Court of Auditors and the European Commission will also go in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, I may be able to predict your answer. You will perhaps say that the Brussels budget should be discussed in the Brussels Parliament, that you have no business with it and should not make any statements about it. I don't think that answer is entirely correct. You yourself have just said that you are the point of contact for Europe when we talk about budgets in this country. You have to answer for that. I expect you to follow the same line consistently and to give your opinion on the Brussels budget. I would also like to use my question mainly as a warm appeal, Madam Secretary of State. Brussels has had an Open Vld Minister for the Budget for 22 years. In 1999 it was Mrs Neyts, afterwards it was Mr Vanhengel nine years in one piece, then Mr Vanraes two years, then again Mr Vanhengel eight years in one piece, now it is Mr Gatz. Now Brussels, with a liberal Minister for the Budget, from Open Vld, is in a situation in which the Court of Auditors does not even want to comment anymore; it simply does not want to venture to do so anymore. In any normal country, in any normal democracy, that would be absolute shame front page news. In this country it hardly causes a wrinkle in some newspaper articles. I do not understand that at all, when we see what amounts are involved and what budgetary risks are being taken there. I just can't reach that. I hope and expect you to take a position in that debate as well. I know that this is not easy: it is about a colleague from your party and about another region, but you are partly responsible because you are being called upon for the totality of the budgetary stories vis-à-vis the European Union. It would be a necessary and strong signal if the federal government indicated that it could not go on and that a budget that expert administrations, so to speak, dare not even look at, because they would burn their fingers on it, is not acceptable. Give that signal, it would strengthen legal certainty in several ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u77	Firstly, the answer has already been suggested. I cannot help it: given the division of powers between the federal government and the Communities, I have no say in the quality of the accounts of the Brussels Region. I have already indicated that in the coming years it is my intention to sit together in the Inter-Ministerial Conference to see how we can work with all the regions and all the levels in our country on a good budgetary path in the coming years. It is, of course, important that the public authorities assume financial responsibility in a sound and transparent manner. High-quality government accounts are important and the certification mandate granted to the Court of Auditors is an important tool to support this. The figures for the financial year 2020 are the first in which certification is mandatory for all public authorities: the Federal State and the Communities and the Regions. Secondly, at the moment I have no indications that an assessment of the accounts of the Brussels-Capital Region would create problems for the figures communicated to Europe. The layout of the government accounts is done in Belgium by the Institute for National Accounts. Data for the year 2020 were communicated to Eurostat at the beginning of October. The publication of the figures on the government deficit and debt by Eurostat of 21 October 2021 does not express any reservations regarding the Belgian figures. At that time, however, the Court of Auditors' report was not yet known. It is up to INR and/or Eurostat to ask questions to the Brussels-Capital Region about the possible impact of the Court's observations on the basic figures used for the preparation of government accounts. Like you, I'll follow up on the matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u78	Mr Loones, are you satisfied with the real answer to your suggested answer, or is there room for improvement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u79	Mr President, you may be laughable about it, but I am not, I am not. I am surprised, moreover, that you are making such an allusion, because you usually place the emphasis on correct accounts in Parliament. What is happening in Brussels is simply not normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u80	Mr Loones, I withdraw my statement. In fact, your question belongs in the Court of Auditors Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u81	Mr President, that is not right. If you want to take part in the debate, what you are actually doing now, you should say that what is happening in Brussels is not normal. However, you do not. You seem to find it embarrassing to touch on your colleagues from Open Vld, even though you constantly lecture everyone here in Parliament about correct accounting. It would please you to maintain the same discourse at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u82	That's what I do, in the Court of Auditors committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u83	Mr President, allow me to address the question to you. Do you think it's normal what happens to the accounts in Brussels? Do you think it is normal that, in the current situation, the Court of Auditors should not even give an opinion on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u84	I refer to the Court of Auditors committee. You know the thesis, the certification of the accounts is a priority. This is a problem in many institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u85	Point proof: as long as the Open Vld colleagues are covered. Madam Secretary of State, I appreciate your statement that good accounts are important. I appreciate your recognition that the Court of Auditors' report is important. In doing so, you implicitly admit that this is not correct, although I am sorry that you refuse to make any statements about it afterwards. In your answer you give different ways out. You say the certifications are new. The INR and Eurostat should address Brussels, you say. This gives you a little bit of cover for the fact that the accounts are not well constructed. I do not agree with that, because I believe that the problem should be recognised independently of party politics and government policy, regardless of majority opposition. The taxpayer is entitled to correct accounts. We are entitled to politicians who all recognise that what happens in Brussels with the budget is not normal. Mr President, you do not have to refer to another committee in Parliament. You can say that consistently everywhere. It's just not normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u86	Mr Loones, you must be careful not to interpret words in your logic. It is quite clear to me: certification of the government's accounts and all its institutions is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u87	Mr President, I will ask you the question again, since you say that you are not avoiding them. Do you think that sound budgetary work is being done in Brussels, as far as the accounts are concerned? I think that's a yes-no question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u88	If you wish to debate this, I am at the disposal of the appropriate committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u89	Madam Secretary of State, under the direction of the European Commission, a debate is currently under way on the revision of the European budgetary rules. In that debate, it seems that Belgium is advocating an exception for green investment. The PS proposal to incur additional European debts is not followed, De Tijd wrote. Can you confirm that, at the last meeting of the Eurogroup, Belgium effectively advocated maintaining Maastricht standards, in particular the maximum budget deficit of 3% and the maximum public debt of 60% of GDP? Can you confirm that Belgium wants or has requested an exception to the Maastricht standard of 3% for green investments? Is it true that the PS proposal to incur European debt for climate objectives was deemed unachievable by the government, as De Tijd wrote? Was that position communicated to the Länder? Have the Länder formally agreed to this position, which was defended for the Eurogroup? For the Länder, an exception for green investment will not prevent regional debt from growing further. How do you defend an exception for green investments in the light of the fact that regional debt, especially in Wallonia and Brussels, is gradually becoming unsustainable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u90	We will have this discussion even more intensively in the coming weeks. I will give you a general answer, but we need to see how it evolves further. You know that the Minister of Finance is speaking for us there, so if you want answers from a direct source, you will have to address him first. I am already replying, but we will discuss this further in the next few weeks. The European Commission has indeed recently restarted the debate on European budgetary rules. In the context of the re-start and transition plan, a first joint vision has been drawn up within the federal government. Belgium will adopt an open but proactive attitude in the debate and explore the various slopes as a priority. The main principles continue to be to strengthen debt deleveraging and achieve a realistic and specific debt path per country. The sustainability of our public finances remains a prime concern. In the context of realistic deleveraging, sufficient attention must be paid to the maintenance of investment. I have already referred to this in other answers. In the past, it was often saved in the first instance from budgetary necessity. There will therefore need to be a search for opportunities that allow sufficient scope for forward-looking productive investment, such as green investment, within the current budgetary targets. In addition, attention should be paid to anti-cyclical policies and to simplifying the rules. Previous reforms have made the framework unnecessarily complex. This is being continued. We will discuss it further in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u91	You refer, of course, to Mr Van Peteghem, who expresses the position in the Eurogroup. However, I read in the newspaper that in the federal government, a working group with the Prime Minister, Mr De Croo, the Minister of Finance, Mr Van Peteghem, Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs De Bleeker, and Mr Dermine, gave the Belgian position for that European debate. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u92	I've read that here. We have worked out a first Belgian position together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic627x.u93	So you're sitting at the table. That's why I'm asking you the question. In due course, I will also put the question to Mr Van Peteghem. I'd like to hear your views because you have the information firsthand. I regret that we have to read these views in the newspaper and that we do not really get an answer to our questions in Parliament. I can't give much reply to an answer like 'to be prosecuted'. We will therefore put forward new questions.
