ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, in your policy note, you indicate your willingness to invest in research on our colonial past, in relation to the parliamentary committee working on this subject, as well as on the accessibility of archives. In March, I interviewed your Foreign Affairs colleague and his answer was a little disappointing. She was talking about discussions with the Sûreté de l'État and the office of the Minister of Justice that had not yet been completed. It also indicated that access to archives required security clearance. I have no doubt that Members and experts working for Parliament will have the necessary authorizations, but the question arises as regards the information of the citizen and the accessibility and transparency of the archives after some 60 years. We know that the Elysée has made its archives on Rwanda accessible to researchers and historians, with what this may mean in terms of transparency and knowledge of our history. The Minister of Justice replied that there was a shortage of staff to make some transfers to the Kingdom Archives – but that is something that should be resolved. He also referred to the need for a law to improve the declassification of archives. Our colleague Van Hecke has tabled a bill on the subject. The hearings organised by the "colonial past" commission in October last year also concluded that a law would be needed to improve this procedure. Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of these discussions on the transfer of the so-called colonial archives to the archives of the Kingdom and those of the State Security for the Ruanda-Urundi? What is your role? Can you act as coordinator, embossing or fly of the check to move the case forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the same subject but is approached from a slightly different angle. The issue of the management of national archives is a democratic issue. In fact, archivists, in their daily work, allow the public access to these sources, giving citizens the opportunity to take a critical look at past political decisions. My colleague has just listed a few examples. These archives, in view of the current health crisis, carry the risk of being incomplete. This is at least what emerges from the opinion of the Association des archivistes francophones de Belgique (AAFB) which warns the State of the non-conservation of various documents produced by ministerial offices, particularly since March 2020. Secretary of State, how do you intend to support the work of archivists in preserving the documents produced since March 2020? My second question is the angle of my colleague Delizée. What about a possible automatic declassification of classified archives following the flow of a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u3	Mr Delizée, Mrs Jadin, I thank you for your questions which address the same subject, but from two slightly different angles. Mr Delizée, it is true that part of the colonial archives is still inaccessible to researchers and citizens because of the presence of classified documents. Indeed, we could deplore the absence of a procedure for automatic declassification in the long term - 40, 50 or 60 years - after the production of documents. As a result, the management of the archives is greatly disrupted, leading to serious backlogs in this area. The presence in the archives of a large number of documents classified by the Colonial Security in the archives of the former Colonial Ministry not only prevents their consultation, but also the initiation of the decontamination procedure necessary for the preservation of these archives. I am fully aware that the issue of accessibility to colonial archives is an essential issue for the work of the Special Commission on Truth and Reconciliation (CVR). We will have an opportunity to come back to this at a later stage. In addition, this accessibility is also of paramount importance in the context of the Resolution-Metis project, which is the subject of upstream questions. For us, it is inevitable that the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification, clearances, certificates and security notices will be revised and that a compulsory declassification procedure will be introduced in the coming years, in accordance with the provisions of the Government Agreement. Pending this broader legislative framework, discussions have already begun between representatives of my cabinet, the office of the Minister of Justice Vincent Van Quickenborne, the State Archives and the State Security, in order to find a start in solving the existing problem, in particular with regard to the various committees and the research efforts mentioned above. The aim is, in any case, to start the most urgent decontamination work, with a view to preserving the archives. The idea is to establish a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the State Security Service and the State Archives, in order to reduce procedures on these aspects, while respecting the regulations in force, in particular on classification and GDPR. Mrs Jadin, with regard to the specific issue of certain state archives, particularly the cabinet archives, we are fully aware of the need to invest in the selection, acquisition and preservation of archives; even though, as you know, and especially for cabinets, there is a real conversion work to make of a paradigm dominated by paper archives when the reality is that cabinet work today is based on digital documents. Here too, a legal regime will be created to declassify, after some time, certain classified documents, in compliance with international agreements and the protection of the confidentiality of sources. That is what is foreseen and specified in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I had not addressed the issue of decontamination, because I had already mentioned it in previous questions, particularly to Mrs Wilmès. Of course, this is a bit factual, but it requires particular logistics, and also authorisations, especially if a Dutch firm has to intervene. I hope the work continues to ensure that the archives are in a position to be consulted by everyone. Here, my question was more about declassification. I hear the work continues. I can only invite you to continue along this path and, I hope, achieve it as quickly as possible, with your colleagues and with the services concerned. I have the feeling that there have never been as many parliamentary questions about archives as in this Parliament. There are several reasons for this, objective and cumulative. This clearly shows that it is necessary. I think you have Parliament's support in this work. Parliament will also remain vigilant to find a solution as soon as possible, so that these archives are declassified and made accessible. As Mrs Jadin has said, I think that, in substance, we fully agree. The citizen's right to information, transparency on a number of elements of our history: all this is very important in a democracy. Other countries have done so, whatever the consequences. That's very good. I think we need to go that way. I have the feeling that Parliament will remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. These are some encouraging information, and of course we must make progress in this direction. As far as the elements and arguments that I put forward earlier, as well as parliamentary work, I am myself a member of the Congo Commission, and we have every interest in working and moving forward by setting an example, in full transparency. Of course, it would be a good thing to be able to finish the work that you and your government colleagues are planning to do. In this regard, it would be beneficial to have a progress report, as is the case in other cases, including in both committees. This could be an encouraging element in the work being done. We will not fail, within a reasonable time, of course, to ask you again about this progress. As far as the digitisation of archives is concerned, this is a huge challenge, and I am aware of it. The same applies to the various documents produced by ministerial offices. The archives have been working on this for several years, and I hope that the instruments put in place for this purpose will be as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see you again in a committee in which I am not used to being a permanent member. However, it is true that some of the issues that you are debating are of particular interest to me, including artificial intelligence. Mr. Secretary of State, you may have seen the initiative of the Brussels government that is setting up the AI Institute for the Common Good. This project is part of the Region's recovery plan. The aim of this new institute is to draw on university IT expertise to meet the challenges of the city, whether it be mobility, energy or even public health. The development of common expertise in the public and university sectors in the field of artificial intelligence is becoming increasingly necessary. Indeed, this technology is not without risk and the single and systematic use of the private sector raises questions of transparency, especially if the public sector is not equipped to control it. As many studies have shown, artificial intelligence is not a neutral and objective technology. It is often marked by the biases inherent in our society. Whether in the very conception of algorithms or in the way in which data are collected, artificial intelligence tends to confirm and even amplify social discrimination, as was recently the case in the Netherlands in the Siri scandal where, without the knowledge of the democratic process, the Dutch executive has set up a system of control of the most disadvantaged populations in terms of the granting of social benefits. It was found that the discriminatory biases of the algorithm really created discrimination, some of which were even completely illegal, without any possibility of recourse for the population. We know that in the end, this scandal led to the resignation of Mark Rutte's government and elections in March. This is shared by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Mr Secretary of State, it is in two ways that I address the following questions to you, since you are both in charge of two strategic competences: scientific policy and the recovery plan. What do you think about the development of public expertise in artificial intelligence that would support our public health, mobility and social security policies in a transparent manner? A similar or joint initiative to that of the Brussels Region which, for me, is really a model, is it possible to make use of scientific expertise in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u7	Mr. Lacroix, this is an exciting topic that combines many concerns and opportunities from an ethical, public governance, security and economic positioning perspective. For some time now, artificial intelligence-based technologies have experienced many applications that shape our daily lives, and often in a much broader way than we imagine. I know that we share this conviction, because it is framed by ethical and legislative safeguards, to be enthusiastic about certain technological developments, particularly as regards the opportunities that this may represent for the public service. If framed and marked, the use of certain applications of artificial intelligence in public bodies, whether in the field of medicine, transport or justice, may be interesting. That is why I am delighted to see that in the recovery plan there are several projects, beyond that carried by the Brussels government, which will integrate some applications of artificial intelligence and algorithms. For example, for justice digitization programs, one would not be able to position oneself without such tools. We often have a somewhat broad – and sometimes fantasized – view of the artificial intelligence that would decide instead of the one who assumes the function. At this stage – and all the experts will also tell you – artificial intelligence is very partial and much closer to automated statistical mechanisms and regressive tools than to decision-making mechanisms. These are these kinds of tools that are discussed here and that can make it more effective in decision-making or in setting priorities for digitisation. Moreover, by taking my scientific policy cap, I can inform you of Belgian participation in a project called LUMI (Large Unified Modern Infrastructure) which you may have heard about recently. It is a new generation supercomputer that will be installed in Finland in which Belgium participates. It will enable the Belgian scientific community to work with the best tools on these artificial intelligence infrastructures, and in particular all applications in terms of deep learning. However, in addition to this relative optimism with regard to the use of new technologies, I agree with you that this use must be strongly marked and that it involves certain risks. The Dutch case you mentioned is striking. It must be accompanied by genuine public expertise at the risk of allowing the development of a useful tool, but without counterseing on the part of the public authorities. In this sense, the initiative led by the Brussels government is particularly interesting. It could inspire the federal government. If there is no specific project in the first envelope of the recovery plan, we could indeed draw on it and explore the possibility of expanding the Brussels project on the inter-federal basis to bring together the energies. Moreover, the Strategy and Support SPF (BOSA) is already organising all the reflections, notably with the very active AI4Belgium coalition that cuts the silos between public operators and different levels of power to find the best applications of artificial intelligence on government programs, including Hackathon and AI4GOV, in order to make public service employees aware of the possibilities offered by artificial intelligence. The federal government has all the ingredients. The dynamics are quite interesting thanks to the AI4Belgium coalition. Moreover, the Brussels level has this project. It would therefore be interesting – and we will work on it – to see how the various initiatives converge to build and amplify the dynamics at the federal level on the basis of the nascent dynamics around AI4Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your full answer, which shows your personal involvement and that of your department in what I will still call the problem. Indeed, artificial intelligence, as you have said, is both a potential source of initiatives, creativity, innovation and progress, but it can also be in the wrong hands or poorly regulated. The regulation that I propose is not a regulation that stifles but that frames it. Unregulated and untransparent artificial intelligence can have perverse effects as millions of data are brewed with adverse consequences on the lives of hundreds of thousands of individuals on the smallest scale. I am very pleased to see that not only Belgium is part of a whole series of positive steps but that the Brussels initiative has caught your attention. You rightly believe that it is a model to follow and perhaps even to generalize at the Regions and even at the federal level. I don't know who can have the hand in this case. By way of conclusion, I believe that we must all advocate for a benevolent intelligence in the service of a democracy of trust. We are on the right track, and Europe has always had the intellectual capacity to develop this in terms of artificial intelligence and before the creation of the Internet. It is known that the Internet has rapidly emigrated to the United States, which has captured all the interest and largely met its needs. This is how it is today, but let us not miss the trains that pass in front of us or the few cars that we can catch! Europe, Belgium and the Regions have a crucial role to play in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u9	Mr Ben Accour is not logged in to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased to be able to address my first question on the metises to you. This is a matter of concern to me. In the previous legislature, I was the main contributor to this resolution, which recognises the targeted segregation of meteors and the subsequent policy of kidnapping. Many metises have become victims of this and have been transported to Belgium. These metises have already reached a reasonable age and in their lives they still want to experience some justice. The implementation of this resolution is closely monitored, not only by me, but I am pleased that many of my fellow Members are in favour of it. One of the questions raised by the resolution was the demand for a study by CegeSoma with extensive historical research into the role of the bourgeois and ecclesiastical authorities in the treatment of metises during the colonial period. The study consists of two phases, the first of which is already in progress. It creates a database of individual and collective, but also family history. For this purpose, the FPS Foreign Affairs has provided 400,000 euros over four years. The study is carried out in collaboration with the Rijksarchief. I understand from previous answers that there is a debate on the second phase. Resources have to be provided and there are still official requests to CegeSoma and the National Archives. Can you explain whether funding has already been provided for? Where exactly are the difficulties of ordering this investigation today? Is there any more insight into a concrete timeline? What period can the investigation start? Do you have any idea how much funding will be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u11	Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your question. The aim is indeed to carry out, in accordance with the Court's resolution, a second phase historical study of the practices of targeted segregation introduced in relation to colonial metises in a global and inclusive approach. I can confirm the positive developments that you are talking about in funding Phase 2 of this scientific research. Indeed, in collaboration with the cabinet of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development Cooperation, we agreed to release funding for this second phase as soon as possible. Some technical budgetary details have yet to be resolved. However, exchanges are planned in the coming days. As a result of these discussions, we will be able to discuss the different funding modalities further. A convention for this purpose is currently being prepared by our colleagues in the State Archives, which reports to the Centre for War and Society Studies (CegeSoma).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very positive reply. There are still technical details to be worked out, but it will be done very quickly and the association of metisses will be very pleased. I therefore hope that this agreement will be discussed at the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, so that the National Archives and CegeSoma can begin that study this year. Thank you very much for your courageous answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u13	I would just like to add that in addition to the issues of how museums work, staff and the impact of the health crisis on these openings or closures, I also link with the guides and cultural mediators, which we have already mentioned. The more sections are closed, and the less work these people will have during this period, as is the case in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u14	Mr. Secretary of State, on 26 March 2021 the VRT announced that the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium, the most visited museum in our country, should close rooms due to staff shortages. It is about the halls that contain the works of the old masters. The corona crisis would be responsible for that. The result is that the collection of old masters, including many Flemish masters such as Rubens, Bruegel, Jordaens and van Dyck, can no longer be visited. A study has been carried out on cultural participation during the corona crisis. This showed that almost 60% of respondents prefer a museum visit as the first activity as soon as it becomes possible again. Moreover, and not unimportantly, these halls were thoroughly renovated not so long ago with financial support from the Flemish Community. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Why did they choose to close the halls with the old masters? What's taking this closure so long, half a year, until October 15th? Why was that date chosen? What plans are there in the short term to address the shortage of suppliers? What long-term plans are there to address the shortage of staff? To what extent do you think it would be possible for museums in Flanders, or even part of them, to exhibit that collection, so that the works of art would remain accessible? Was there any contact with Flemish Minister for Tourism Zuhal Demir about the closing of the halls?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, last February I had the chance to visit the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium. For myself and for all the visitors present, it was a real moment of breathing. Having access to culture through a museum is extremely important for the well-being and mental health of the citizen. Preserving the accessibility of museums is fundamental. I am pleased that in Belgium we have been able to do so for several months, despite the epidemic. However, the current problem is at the level of alternating exposures. Rich collections, including those of the ancient masters, are now at the expense of this alternation policy. The situation is not new and is the direct consequence – in addition to the context of the pandemic we can point to – of austerity measures taken by previous federal governments against federal scientific institutions. This austerity policy, which has resulted in staffing cuts, has had an impact on employment and staff, which is particularly felt during the co-vid period in view of the additional missions requested from staff. According to the spokesman of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, he would miss, as an illustration, today 19 security officers. Many other functions are required in this specific period. You echo this situation in your general policy note, in which you refer in particular to the search for solutions to show the collections that are now invisible to visitors despite their qualities. What are your intentions regarding recruitment policy in the Royal Museums of Fine Arts? With regard to the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, is a tariff policy adapted to the reduction of access to works possible? Could this type of debate, which concerns both access and pricing, be integrated into the discussion announced and initiated on the adoption of a user's rights charter? What is the status of this reflection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u16	My question is a summary of the questions put by the other authors. Everywhere in the country our museums are doing very well, although within the allowed capacity in the current corona times. We read in all media about the enthusiasm of museum directories but also of the public. At that time, the negative note at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels does stand out. Despite the beautiful collections, which are certainly a piece of our national pride, we have for years been facing problems with the renovations and appointments of the staff or, in short, with the operation of that beautiful House or those beautiful Houses. While the Mint and BOZAR became and remain our best international ambassadors, we notice just the opposite at our Royal Museums. What is the current state of play in the renovation files and staff appointments? Mr Secretary of State, my second question is even more topical. May I ask why the choice was made to enter the media negatively through the closure of a number of rooms, including the Old Masters Museum? Has the possibility that Tourism Flanders can recover the grant of almost EUR 1 million been taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I confirm that visits to our museums – and this crisis has confirmed it – are real moments of breath for the population, as well as tools to make our country and its cultural and artistic heritage shine out. We can therefore welcome the fact that, during the health crisis, unlike in many European countries, museums have only been closed for a few months and are open continuously. We are one of the few European countries to have kept our museums open since autumn 2020. However, as you point out, flow management, which has become more complex with the pandemic, requires more guards and reception staff to be able to comply with health measures, which are essential if visits to museums are to be made in a perfectly safe environment. As far as the Royal Museums of Fine Arts are concerned, given the conditions, it is now more difficult to simultaneously open old art halls and Fin-de-Siècle halls. The restrictions of the health crisis both impose additional supervision and significantly reduce the financial returns of museums. For example, in 2019, there were more than one million visitors, which helped fund staff beyond public funding. In 2020, we made a demand of €2.5 million to mobilise the Corona provision, in order to cope with this decline in revenue. The same discussions are underway for 2021. In the intermediate situation, it was decided to rotate the collections, in order to allow the public to be welcomed, on a narrower perimeter, of course, but in optimal sanitary conditions and with the application of protocols. This is obviously not a lasting situation, it is linked to the exceptional circumstances imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. The Old Masters Museum and the Fin-de-Siècle Museum are opened in an alternating manner. The Fin-de-Siècle Museum was no longer accessible to the public after the first lockdown in March 2020. After a year of urgency to make this part of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium accessible to the public, the next museum will be in the coming months. The period of alternance should be sufficiently large to allow improvement works to be performed in this part of the museum and to achieve another presentation of the works of art. I hope that a global reopening of the museum will be possible by the end of the year. In addition to the Fin-de-Siècle Museum, there are currently two temporary exhibitions to visit, namely the exhibition on original painting and the exhibition on Pierre Alechinsky. Since late April, the works of British artist Thomas Houseago, the famous friend of Brad Pitt, have been exhibited. I would also like to point out that the works exhibited at the Museum Oldmasters are not part of a heritage which would belong only to a "part" of the country but are part of a French, Italian, Spanish heritage or of regions which have fluctuated in history and which have a reality called Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. At this stage, no requests have been made by museums located in the region now known as Flanders for a temporary exhibition of these works. With regard to certain aspects of the questions raised by Messrs. Briers and Parent, a new plan has been developed for the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. Currently, a process of selection of heritage guardians is being prepared in collaboration with Selor for hiring by the end of the year, which also corresponds to the deadline for a global reopening of museums. At this stage, museums did not have an appropriate tariff policy in view of the precarious situation in which they are located. As far as the point on the user rights charter is concerned, it is true that the federal museums that fall within my competence retain, study and value collections that belong to the state heritage and therefore to each of the Belgian citizens. Access to these collections for all is therefore not only an essential dimension but also a genuine right. Everything that can bring the museum closer to its users should therefore be encouraged, whether through an adequate information policy, transparency, accessibility of tariffs, accessibility for people with reduced mobility. I asked my administration to develop a user code for all of our federal museums. I am confirmed that this work is under way and can be presented in the coming quarters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. This is a very interesting debate about the openness and management of federal museums and their impact. You have a great challenge: to give our museums the means to function properly and optimally in the context of a health crisis. The situation is improving, and that is a good thing. We can only support all your efforts and ask you to pursue them to fully reopen these museums, so that all the treasures they contain can be accessible to as many citizens as possible, and that they contribute to the cultural influence of our country. We really invite you to work in that direction. For guides and mediators, this is also a common topic. They need to have training in their daily work. We will therefore follow the file with great attention. Merci beaucoup.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I can understand that there is a shortage of staff and that choices need to be made, but I find it a very strange choice. It's really a matter of priorities. One has chosen to take away the top works from the public, while setting up temporary exhibitions. I very much doubt whether this is the choice that other top museums in other countries would make. As you rightly point out, this is a matter of national heritage. We must be proud of that and at all times unlock it as much as possible. I think that this should be given real priority. Moreover, I find it hallucinating that Brad Pitt was apparently given access to those top works, which shows that they are the showpieces of the museum, which unfortunately we are not seeing anymore. What makes it worse, and you seem to forget that, is that the Museums of Fine Arts are partners in the Flemish masters project set up by Tourism Flanders. There's been a massive leverage grant to MSK. Thus, for example, the Bruegel Room was renewed. A cooperation agreement has been concluded and the obligations contained therein are now being waived, in particular the active participation in the network of those Flemish master sites. The Flemish Government, through Minister Demir, has indicated that it intends to withhold the balance of EUR 250 000 that has not yet been paid or even to recover the entire amount of the subsidy, as provided for in the cooperation agreement. That is something that needs to be taken into account and that you need to consider reversing that decision as quickly as possible. It can't be that Flanders pays, but has nothing else to eat. I find it incredible that efforts are being sabotaged by the federal government in this way. As regards lending to Flemish museums, Minister Demir, as the competent State Secretary, has tried, but she has not found any supporters within the government. I hope you can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u20	Secretary of State, I thank you for your answers and your ambition to move towards a global and lasting reopening of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. All elements of the response are important, including the Corona provision. In the context of the pandemic, it is important to bring this balloon of oxygen to those institutions that have been hit hard in recent years, first by the austerity crisis and, secondly, by the health crisis. With regard to the accessibility of collections, it is clear that we need to move towards sustainable solutions that are the result of work at the federal level, but I agree with the discussions on collaborations with other entities. As you said, collections do not belong to any particular entity. In addition, various collaborative solutions, including with Brussels institutions, were torpedoed under the previous legislature. You also have to be able to say it. When you point your finger at the federal government today, it must be remembered that the federal government and the people who preceded you have a heavy responsibility for the fact that we have not been able to achieve collaborations that ensure that works are more accessible. As far as employment is concerned, I welcome your announcements about child care. This is part of the response to the missions requested from staff. Finally, I am obviously interested in following up on the results of your work on user policy. This adds an element to the solution and allows us to have a comprehensive political vision for federal scientific institutions, a global vision that has sorely missed in recent years. I welcome your commitments at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, of course it is much more than re-working the Royal Museums. There is clearly no vision for the future, which we do see in the other very beautiful institutions, such as BOZAR and De Munt. We expect to get a better idea of where we are actually going in the next few months in committee. How are we going to make the staff feel good in that house again and that it likes to work there? That's crucial to me. As far as the shortage of supplies is concerned, we know that there are too many volunteers in the vaccination centres. They have long lists of volunteers that they cannot put to work. Perhaps those volunteers could be called upon to work in our museums. As far as Tourism Flanders is concerned, I certainly did not intend to say that it is about Flemish masters. It's about a hall of international masters. Whether it's about Tourism Flanders or a private company that would financially support the opening of the museum, that's the same for me. Even if it were Shell or any other major multinational that would keep the halls open through funding, a refund would undoubtedly be demanded. So don't expect me to consider it a Flemish hall with Flemish artworks. It's about the heritage of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u22	Colleagues, this concludes our small debate on federal museums.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u23	Unfortunately, I was not aware of Brad Pitt's visit to our little country. As reported in the press, Brad Pitt arrived in Belgium with his friend Thomas Houseago, a British painter and sculptor who lives in Los Angeles, apparently close to Brad Pitt. The artist came to the Belgian museum to assemble an exhibition that opened on 21 April. The exhibition was assembled during and outside the opening hours of the museum, but in rooms that were not accessible to visitors at that time. The necessary distance rules and other sanitary measures were respected. There was no need for additional staff in addition to the planned staffing. There were therefore no additional costs associated with the visit. Due to the corona crisis we could not organize extra activities with Brad Pitt, although he does not come to Belgium every day. I agree that it is not a good signal that Brad Pitt is coming to Belgium during the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I find it remarkable that you yourself were not aware of that arrival, but I take your word, of course. It is striking that the regular visitor, the taxpayer, is being denied access here, and I agree with the previous replies and concerns of my colleagues in the previous point, while an exception is being made for a star from the other side of the ocean. I am pleased with your agreement that the visit was not a shocking news - I will not exaggerate - but that it was an unfortunate signal, moreover, at a time when our social and cultural life was being ruined and destroyed. The icing on the cake must be - the resentment of that certainly lives on our committee - that the man in question, who prides himself on his climate concern, comes here with a private jet to visit a federal Belgian institution under the supervision of the Vivaldi government. We share the conclusion that this is rather striking, remarkable and acidic, especially for the regular visitors, to whom access is denied at these times. I suspect that will change in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u25	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55016342C and 55016344C by Mr Ravyts will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u26	In your policy statement as part of the Einstein Telescope project, you indicated that Belgium will also try to find the necessary partners for the realisation and implementation in Belgium of the telescope project, a joint infrastructure project of the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium, which competes for the ESFRI 2021 route map. It is an important project with a lot of potential both for science development and for the local economy. I would like to have a state of affairs and some clarification. What kind of partners can you make an effort to bring them together for yourself? What action have you taken? Have you found any partners yet? If so, which one? Which one are you looking for? What do the further planning and the timeline look like? Who's got the lead in the project? Is that the federal government or is it the state governments? You promised a perfect cooperation with the Länder to make Belgium's candidacy as competitive as possible. How does this cooperation stand in concrete terms? Has there been any consultation? If so, how are the conversations going? If not, when will the first talks take place? Has any federal funds been provided for this legislature? If so, were expenses already incurred and can you explain them? Is there consultation with Germany, the Netherlands and the rest of Europe? Could you elaborate on that? How's the cooperation going? Is it true that Germany does not yet support the project? If the project does not take shape in the Meuse-Rhine Euregio, but it does take shape in Sardinia, will Belgium still consider taking part in the construction or in the scientific exploitation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u27	Mrs Gijbels, it is indeed an important project, not only for science but also for local economic development. The preparation, construction and exploitation of the Einstein telescope, an ambitious project, require collaboration between the scientific and technological community, industry and government. In September 2018, the Belgian universities, some Dutch and German universities and the National Institute for Subatomic Physics (Nikhef), the Dutch Research Institute, signed a memorandum of understanding to prepare a possible written joint application for hosting the Einstein telescope in the Euregio Maas-Rhine region. The MOU was signed by all rectors of the Flemish and French-speaking universities in Belgium and resulted, among other things, in the award of three preparatory projects, which were financed under Interreg. Interreg covers European projects for cooperation between neighbouring regions. Indeed, Belgium's participation in the research infrastructure and its follow-up is being discussed between the federal government and the Regions and Communities. This is done in a sub-group of the Interfederal Committee on International Cooperation (CIS), which specifically focuses on research infrastructure. The federal government plays a coordinating role in this consultation and members of the working group come from the federal and regional administrations, namely Belspo, EWI, INNOVIRIS and SPW and from the funding agencies for research in French-speaking and Dutch-speaking Belgium, the FNRS and the FWO. The dossier has been on the working group's agenda since 2018. The working group also consults with colleagues from the Netherlands and Germany on a regular basis. It is important to know that, since the beginning of 2021, there have been three meetings at European level with the countries that have supported the candidacy for the Einstein Telescope: Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Poland, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom. Consultations also take place between scientists on a regular basis. Informal meetings between Member States and the European Commission will also take place at the meetings of the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures. At present, no specific funding for the project has been entered in the federal budget. There are two possibilities for the construction of the infrastructure: either in the Euregio Belgium, Germany or the Netherlands, or in Italy on the island of Sardinia. In the event that the project would be implemented in Italy, the conditions for our country's participation in the construction and operation of the Einstein telescope should be reviewed. In the following months, consultations will take place with all the competent authorities and scientists working on this aspect. But the decision on the location of the telescope will not be taken until 2024, when the result of the tender is known. If the telescope would eventually go to Italy, Sardinia, the participation of our companies in its construction and the participation of our scientists in the project will have to be evaluated on the basis of the economic and scientific added value before making a decision. It is indeed a very important project and it can be seen that the consultation between the Länder, the federal level and the European Commission is a busy agenda. We can count on the support of the federal level to create the infrastructure for this project in the Euregion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, this is indeed a project that we must tackle together with all the different governments and all the different levels of competence. It's very important. It would be ideal if this could take place in the Euregio, especially for the local economy. But even if it were to go to Sardinia, I hope that we will be able to participate as much as possible so that scientific knowledge can flow back to this country. We also have a great know-how in construction projects. I hope that we will also be able to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, we have already had a debate in plenary on the cyber attack, but I would like to return to this in order to be able to ask more specific questions. The universities, the vaccination campaign and the work in this House were severely hampered. The networks, connected to Belnet, were overloaded. Almost all public services call on Belnet. Belnet is the privileged partner of higher education, research centres and public administrations for their connectivity. Since 2000, Belnet has been a state service with separate management within the Science Policy FPS, your domain. Mr Secretary of State, could you clarify what happened on 4 May? Which services and customers of Belnet were most affected? What were the concrete consequences? Were there any data stolen during the cyber attack? Were there important data, I am thinking of medical data through vaccination centres or financial data via Tax-on-web, in danger? Can Belnet guarantee that no data has been stolen? What are Belnet's chances of this happening again? In the meantime, have you filed a complaint? Is there an investigation going on? If so, who is conducting that investigation? When can we expect the results? What operating budget does Belnet have in 2021? How did that budget evolve over the last five years? How many employees does Belnet employ today? How many employees did Belnet employ in 2016? How many vacancies do Belnet have? What profiles are we talking about? What are you going to do to strengthen Belnet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u30	Mr. Secretary of State, Belnet appears to be one of the victims, turned out to be. Other systems have also been attacked. The attacker is still unknown at the moment. Several IT specialists have also indicated that, as far as they could estimate, Belnet has been able to respond adequately. I'd like to go into more detail about the Belnet service itself. In your policy paper, you indicated that the recruitment of IT staff should be simplified and that Belnet should also become attractive as an employer in order to attract sufficient highly qualified staff. I got that information myself when I visited Belnet in early 2020. It was also a very specific question of them to get to work on it. Do you have an overview of the profiles that are still being searched within Belnet? What steps have you taken to facilitate the recruitment and retention of IT specialists? Do you have any plans there and when can we expect them? In the meantime, what analysis was made of the attack of May 4th? Was the security adequate? What is the worst case scenario in case of such large-scale attacks? What services are then threatened in their functioning? How is network security monitored?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u31	They are indeed important questions about an important aspect of our state. I will do my best to respond as in fact as possible within a short period of time. Belnet has 82 contracts compared to 71 in 2017. That is an increase of more than 10% in 4 years. There are 13 vacancies left on the staff plan. Given the operational aspect, the rapidly changing ICT environment, the increasing customer expectations and the limited staff framework, Belnet is looking mainly for highly skilled profiles. The issue is broader than just the ICT profiles, it also concerns leading positions in IT and business-related profiles. Due to its status as a separate administration, Belnet currently has only contractual staff subject to the Royal Decree of 25 October 2013 on the financial career of the staff of the federal public office. That legislation makes it impossible for Belnet to implement a flexible personnel policy, which is essential in the IT world. The legislator recognises the problem and, in Article 125 of the Law of 6 May 2009, which lays down several provisions: "The King may, by decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, determine the remuneration conditions for the contractual ICT staff charged to the budget of the State Service with separate management." This royal decision to improve the remuneration conditions for contract ICT employees of Belnet is being prepared. So it really is an old issue about how we can reconcile our existing legislation with the specific needs of the ICT profiles. However, in a more structural way, Belnet started a transformation programme at the beginning of 2021 to address the growing challenges of a public sector in full digital transformation. The programme will include a study to identify the legal form best suited to the activity and personnel needs. The outcome of the study is expected in July 2021. We therefore ask for a few weeks of patience. On that basis, we will decide on the next steps. I now turn to the specific crisis of last week. Belnet's specific detection systems detected certain irregularities on 4 May around 11 a.m. A huge increase in data flows was observed at about 12.00 hours and the crisis plan was activated. Belnet has plans that can be launched on the basis of the scenario. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Belnet's colleagues for the professional management of the crisis. During the crisis, in addition to the specific Belnet network and the security experts, the security officer of Belnet, the communication team, the people of the service desk, the customer managers, the colleagues of the CERT and members of my cabinet were also involved. In view of the extreme form of attack, necessary international contacts were also made to control the security attack. Thanks to the plans prepared, the structured approach and the cooperation between all parties, Belnet has managed to completely avert the attack by 17.00 hours. Following the attack, a structural and additional protection was implemented on 4 May to midnight, in cooperation with national and international experts on the subject, in order to significantly reduce the risk of similar attacks. The initial analyses show that this is a very well organized and prepared attack. At the moment, everything points to an attack that was only intended to render certain systems unavailable. So far, there's no indication of data being stolen. The attack has first and foremost disrupted Belnet's basic service, national and international network connectivity. As a result, some of our customers' connections were saturated. As a result, some of the Belnet customers had no or very slow internet connections. Some of the concrete customers who have suffered from severe nuisances are several federal public services, the Chamber, as you may have noticed, the services provided through Smalls and some universities and colleges of applied sciences. The consequences for some customers were the unavailability of services, for other customers delayed services. Other customers haven't noticed anything. Belnet and his clients are the first victims here. Belnet lodged an oral complaint to the Federal Computer Crime Unit on 4 May and a formal written complaint to the Federal Computer Crime Unit on 5 May. The investigation was formally launched on 5 May 2021 and Belnet will, of course, cooperate fully. The federal prosecutor is now responsible for the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u32	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to thank the staff who have done everything in their power to put that right as quickly as possible. This makes us aware of the vulnerability and the risks. I am thinking, for example, of the health of patients in hospitals and the vaccination campaign. I think it's a good thing that you're working on the whole staff problem and looking for solutions to find sufficient qualified staff. I hope that we can continue to be kept informed of the state of play. I think it's important to have a strong service with staff who can handle this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u33	I believe that all of us are indeed more vulnerable than ever before. It is absolutely important to give maximum attention to this and to use it on very well-trained staff who can respond to it in the most appropriate way. I do not want to say that this has not happened now. But I do think this is a focus for the future. Today's young IT specialists look not only at the remuneration, but also at the working conditions, the atmosphere and so on. As far as possible, this should also be taken into account in order to make these functions as attractive as possible. You indicated it was a very well-prepared attack. I wonder to what extent there were signals that could have been picked up? Has that been checked out, if any? You also say there's a KB in preparation. I know that the then Minister of Civil Service, Sander Loones, has also been working on this. That was almost ready to move on. Perhaps you have already established that and you can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, it is a new episode of this saga that could give rise to a smile if the subject were not so serious, so scandalous and revolting. Indeed, for decades there has been a pension scheme for people who have collaborated with the Nazi regime, who certainly have blood on their hands, directly or indirectly, and who have actively worked against their country, Belgium, and against its people and those who struggled for democracy. Under the previous legislature, the House of Representatives had adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military collaborators of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. In these former collaborators, we must put aside those who were forcibly recruited and who had no other choice. I am thinking in particular of a large part of those who have been forcibly recruited into the German-speaking Community. According to the Group Mémoire-Groep Herinnering, the establishment of a scientific commission composed of members presented by Belgian universities and respecting linguistic parity, with which the State Archives (CegeSOMA) could cooperate, could carry out this work of census and historical truth, in order to translate in concrete terms the requests of the said resolution and somewhere to put an end to it or in any case to be part of the final result. Indeed, there is, and it is quite incredible at a time when we are hooked and tagged everywhere, no numerical list of all those convicted of collaboration. When I asked you on 2 February, you said: "These allowances and pensions paid by Germany are in contradiction with Belgium's democratic memory work as foreseen by the resolution of 14 May 2019. We are going to ask the authorities in North Rhine-Westphalia for information to clarify these pensions granted to former Belgian employees of the Nazi regime. We are also considering the establishment of an ad hoc committee, in collaboration with the State Archives." Germany rejected a joint committee that was originally favoured by the resolution voted by Parliament in 2019. Our Minister of Foreign Affairs has also answered one of my questions by ensuring that I coordinate the various interventions of both the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance, yourself and his department. Could you then, Mr Secretary of State, point out to me that things are progressing well, as you would like on the part of setting up this commission in collaboration with the Archives of the State? Could you give us a timetable with a deadline, which would reassure us as parliamentarians but above all reassure those who are waiting for the truth to come to light and this iniquitous regime to be abrogated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, the context has been very well explained by my colleague. Indeed, we are many to question different members of the government about this scandalous regime. It was precisely following my last inquiry with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that I had to question you in turn. As I said, on May 4, 2021, I asked Minister Wilmès about the follow-up that the government was considering to this famous motion for a resolution calling for the repeal of the pension scheme still granted to Nazi collaborators in our country today. I referred in particular to the fact that you would have argued for the setting up of a scientific committee, moreover, provided for in the third request contained in this resolution initiated at the time by Olivier Maingain and which your party had co-signed. However, I must inform you that the request I made to the Conference of Presidents of the House a few weeks ago to set up this committee was simply rejected. The President of the House has indeed pointed out to me that "at this stage, in response to parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy and the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Justice are following up the case and that contacts are being made with the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia in order to have a clear overview of the pensions paid". She proposed that the government report back to Parliament. This request is relayed to the government. However, the answer which was then given to me by Minister Wimès confirms to me a genuine blockage in this matter, since it finally only referred to the three points contained in this motion for a resolution adopted more than two years ago. First, the exchange of tax information, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Secondly, the exchange of information on persons convicted in Belgium for acts of cooperation with the enemy, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice, which is why I will again question him this afternoon. Thirdly, the possibility of setting up a scientific committee which would examine this dossier in consultation with German researchers and therefore fall within your competence. Therefore, could you explain to us the considerations taken into account in your assessment in setting up this scientific committee? Do you consider, as your colleague in External Relations seemed to imply, that a majority in the Bundestag is necessary - or simply preferable - to enable a scientific committee to set up a list of beneficiaries of these pensions? Finally, is there currently an agreement within the Vivaldi majority to set up this committee unilaterally - at Belgian level - in the event that Germany does not express its wish to do so at bilateral level? If so, when will it be possible to set up such a commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u36	Secretary of State, these are two questions that raise many sub-questions. You have the floor to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions on this situation, which is indeed quite scandalous and hallucinating. Today we are in 2021, 75 years after the Second World War and the fall of the Nazi regime, so it is pertinent to ask why this issue has not been dealt with during the 75 years that separate us from the end of this war. Since our last discussions on this subject, I confirm to you that considerable work has been done, in particular in connection with the German authorities. I also confirm that my office is working on this issue in close cooperation with the Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ms Wilmès, and with the Office of the Minister of Justice, Mr Wilmès. Van Quickenborne. We had several exchanges about the list of persons concerned. In view of the delays, this list is now relatively small and has nine persons, who continue to receive a pension in Belgium from the German State. We must of course guard against any risk of abusive treatment of this list of people and respect all the precautions of rigour, in particular by avoiding an inverse phenomenon of witch-hunting, which would be totally unfair. That is why we are going to ask the German authorities to compare these nine names with the list of collaborators convicted by the Belgian judicial authorities for collaboration with the Nazi regime. If a relationship is found between the list of nine persons and the list of convicted persons for collaboration with the Nazi regime, it is indeed our intention to ask our German colleagues to set up this scientific commission between Belgian and German experts. It would be financed by both countries in order to establish the follow-up to be given to this problem which, as I said in the introduction to you in echoing your questions, Mr Lacroix, Mrs Rohonyi, is simply hallucinating and scandalous given the time lag between the end of the Nazi regime and the situation we are currently experiencing, 75 years later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Yeah, hallucinating, that's the word. Historically and politically, we saw in the aftermath of World War II, a law of the omertà, by virtue of which some people who had collaborated remained at the head of institutions and played, sometimes, very important roles in departments of the State or international departments. Let us recall the sad Sir Kurt Waldheim, who became Secretary General of the UN, when he was a Nazi officer. Fortunately, we were able to show how this person, who devoted the second part of his life to peace and humanitarianism, had been a vile scum long before that. My words are a little drust and a little direct, but it is disgust that invades me when one evokes these characters. It should also be noted that the definition of a war criminal is not the same in Germany as the definition as it applies in Belgium. Indeed, the definition of a war criminal, as laid down in the Nuremberg Treaty, is not accepted by Germany. We must agree on this together and, if so, we must no longer avoid moving forward. As you said, it's amazing that we've been waiting for 75 years! I asked for a timetable with specific deadlines. I will come back in the coming weeks to see the state of play of the issue because, regardless of the coordination of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, each of the ministers or secretaries of state who are part of the overall solution must bring their share of progress. I think you've already done it. I will conclude by saying that the resolution includes the establishment of a parliamentary scientific committee. As my colleague Sophie Rohonyi rightly said, the Conference of Presidents, therefore Parliament, is waiting for the government to move because there is a desire on its part to set up a committee. We won't be able to look at each other for weeks in faience dogs. I know that you are vigilant and that the duty of remembrance is important to you and to my party and, in general, to all the parties that make up the government coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I have no doubt for a second of your political will to move forward on this issue, your sincerity or your indignation at this scandalous regime. However, I am still very disappointed with your answer, having learned absolutely nothing about the answers that had already been given to me by the other ministers whom I had the opportunity to question on this subject. You tell us that there is a work done within the government with your colleagues in Finance and External Relations to cross-check the data between information on persons convicted of acts of collaboration and those who continue to receive these pensions. Still, we are not moving forward! As Mr Lacroix suggests, it is now time to work on a very clear timetable to avoid putting an end to this regime, not by political will because we have taken concrete action, but because ultimately the beneficiaries would all have died. I would like to recall the two aspects of this motion for a resolution which the government is required to implement. First part. Parliament's request to the government to take steps to draw up a list of beneficiaries of these pensions and to put an end to this scheme, which - it must be remembered - is a reward for those who have worked with one of the most deadly schemes in our history. It is a real slap against the memory of the resistors and the victims of Nazism. This resolution also contains a second aspect: a formal commitment by Parliament to set up a scientific committee, ideally mixed (Belgo-German), to draw up the list of beneficiaries. If this is not possible, the Commission will be composed and financed at Belgian level. In other words, this commission must not wait for the government's efforts to be put in place. This is an approach that can, and must, even be joint. I appeal to my colleagues in the Conference of Presidents to support this request for the establishment of this Scientific Committee. I will see the answer that will be given to me earlier by Minister Van Quickenborne. If ever the work of exchanging information and passing data on people who have been convicted of acts of collaboration has not yet been done, I really think it would be more than a floor time on this track that has been desired by Parliament for more than two years now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, I never thought I'd ask a question about astronauts in my life. Sixty years ago, a peasant's son and worker from the Soviet Union entered space as the first human being. A long way has been gone since then, and people have been present in space for 20 years. The European Space Agency (ESA) is currently looking for new spacemen for the first time in more than a decade and has recently created a vacancy for astronauts. Candidates will be accepted until 28 May. The Belgian Science Policy (BELSPO) and ESA therefore held a press conference on 12 April to encourage people in our country to apply for ESA's vacancies. According to the website, you were also present there. ESA is looking for only four to six astronauts and for the first time a reserve list of ten to twenty astronauts will be deployed for temporary or shorter missions. "All our astronauts will fly," said Frank De Winne, who is now in charge of the astronaut training centre. During the previous ESA astronaut selection in 2008, there were over 8,000 candidates, from which only seven lucky ones emerged. I have a few questions on this, Mr Secretary of State. How many applications has ESA received? How many Belgians were running? What about the male-female relationship among the candidates and the ethnic background of the candidates? In what way does BELSPO actively seek out the right profiles for the vacancies available at ESA?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u41	This is an interesting question on a beautiful subject. As in the Soviet Union in the 1950s and 1970s, space travel today has an enormous capacity to make us dream about our future. That was true in the Soviet Union then and that is true today. Space also has a huge potential to make our scientific careers more attractive, especially for women. It is therefore important to publish this call for astronauts. The figures are still fluctuating strongly at the moment, especially as the deadline of 28 May 2021 approaches. So there is not much we can say about the current figures. Once the vacancy is closed, we can provide a clearer and more useful answer. There was a question about ethnic profiling in the current figures. In the procedure ESA deliberately does not ask questions about ethnic profiling. So there is no data available on this. ESA's vacancies are handled by ESA's human resources services, without any intervention from BELSPO. BELSPO has of course done enough promotion, including a large info session on 12 April, in the presence of Frank De Winne, the second Belgian astronaut and now responsible for the training centre for astronauts at ESA. BELSPO will also remain available for answering questions from potential Belgian candidates. Belgium's regular investments in ESA's exploration programmes and the permanent support of BELSPO to ESA's initiatives in this domain are of course of a nature to defend a Belgian candidacy in the final steps of the selection procedure. I would like to repeat that six to eight new astronauts will eventually be selected according to objective and advanced criteria. The geopolitical intervention will therefore be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, let's hope there will be a few women among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u43	Mr. Secretary of State, I was at the moon landing for 12 years. The space sector makes us dream, but it is actually also a high-tech sector that needs big capital to meet scientific objectives. The 1960s were the glory days of space travel. The two superpowers then spent 4.5 % of their gross domestic product on the space sector. Today, that fell back to 0.5%, but we see private investors jumping into the hole. The government disinvests and reaches out to private players. We see super-rich billionaires like Elon Musk of Tesla, Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson pouring into this space market, each with their own personal projects. They not only prepare space missions, they already dream aloud of extracting other planets and capturing their resources. Europe is also involved in the privatisation of space and space itself. This brings with it a lot of great dangers in terms of privacy, security but also climate. What is the Belgian Government's position on private space missions? How do you feel about advancing space tourism? Should ESA, partly funded by taxpayers' money, and quite a bit from Belgium, also focus on space tourism by working with private players such as SpaceX? How harmful is space travel to the environment? In what ways does ESA try to reduce environmental damage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, additional funds in the area of space missions may be welcome. For example, the government can invest in other new exploration destinations. There is indeed a risk of privatisation of space. This must, of course, be done in the light of the current regulations, at least the United Nations Outer Space Treaty. The problem we face is that private initiatives are developing faster today than legislation, especially at international level. A known problem is, for example, the deployment of the Starlink satellite network in low Earth orbit, where the many satellites pose a threat to astronomical observation. ESA does not currently have the capacity to bring people into space. It costs a lot to set up a human-rated launch infrastructure. Europe therefore depends on working with partners who can, for example the Americans. In that respect, commercialising and printing the price for a trip to space is not such a negative thing. However, ESA itself will never do space tourism because it is financed by taxpayers' money. All commercial activities of ESA, such as qualifying commercial astronauts to fly on the ISS, shall be paid by that commercial entity at full cost. So there won't be any taxpayers' money used for it. In a story of pros and cons, we must also be aware of what space can do for the environment. I am thinking in particular of Earth observation by satellites that help to monitor Earth's status. There are very few numerical data immediately available on the pollution caused by space travel. But the things that are polluting are the fuels and the space waste or the pollution of the orbit around the nature. There are several ESA initiatives to reduce environmental damage, including the Clean Space Initiative, which was launched in 2012. This includes the following aspects: ecodesign, the use of green technology by stimulating green fuel for the rockets, space debris mitigation or how we can reduce space waste, on-orbit serving active debris removal and refueling satellites in space for longer lifetimes. So there are a lot of initiatives, but it's something we need to keep our sights on for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic471x.u45	Thank you. As a government, you are not opposed to private initiatives, if I understand correctly. It shockes me that multi-billionaires like Bezos and Branson can take such initiatives, while letting their own workers work in such bad conditions. These people now want to do space tourism with a number of risks to the environment. That's what makes me so angry. I think that's decadent. That reminds me of Daens' period. The fat bosses were still close to the people back then. It pisses me off that such people who do not respect important aspects of social legislation spend their money on a sector which then causes pollution to the environment. I just wanted to stress that. We have problems with such people who want to promote space tourism.
