ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Minister, welcome to the Social Affairs Committee. Best wishes to those I haven't seen yet. We begin our work with a topical debate on the delays of the various payment agencies. Minister, you have planned a comprehensive presentation in response to all the questions asked. Colleagues, I propose that we start with the presentation of the minister, so as to save some time in the debate, but we can obviously take a look at whether you want to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and best wishes to those whom I have not yet met. I finally opted for a classic answer. I therefore propose that parliamentarians start with their questions and then I will have an answer which I hope will address the various points raised by each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall therefore take a look at this and remind you that you can refer to your written questions if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the coronavirus crisis has led the government to take various measures, including measures relating to temporary unemployment. This represents a significant increase in work and is in addition to the usual work of CAPAC. Many applicants turn to this organization for the first time and a large proportion of files require considerable work. Approximately 100,000 cases reached CAPAC last October and about 5% of them were not processed in time. In addition, CAPAC struggles to manage the thousands of daily calls it receives and is therefore difficult to reach. Minister, will CAPAC be able to pay the allowances to the many temporary unemployed workers who have applied for them? CAPAC appealed to the special federal forces. To date, what is the status of the selection process? How many federal officers have applied and how many have already been assigned to CAPAC to temporarily strengthen its services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u5	Minister, since the start of the corona crisis, the Aid Cash for unemployment benefits has been questioned much more than before. At the beginning of the corona crisis, the fact that one was surprised as an organization could still be used as an excuse to explain the backlog. Meanwhile, we're almost a whole pregnancy ahead, so that excuse can't be invoked anymore. Only the problems remain with the HVW. That is irresponsible, because people really need these benefits to be able to pay their invoices on time. After all, there are very few organisations that issue invoices and say that they will wait until they receive the payment from the government. That's a cascade, a dominoes game, because that'll get them in trouble too. That's no way to work. The government should have solved those problems a long time ago. That is clearly not the case today, hence my questions. Can you give an overview of the workload that the HVW now has to process? Can you also give an overview of the backlog that needs to be eliminated and what months it covers? We can then draw our attention from this when we are lagging behind. Can you also give an overview of the measures you have already taken to deal with the malaise within the HVW and its impact? What measures will you take to ensure that files are dealt with in good time, which is anything but the case today? Can you tell me when you will take these measures? The need is high, especially in families where the benefits to which they are entitled are all too often in vain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u6	Madam President, I will ask my questions, because the subject has now become a topical debate and I have a few further questions. Minister, we have heard that a lot of questions have been passed on to the OCMWs in recent months. As a general rule, the OMCWs have one month to conduct a social investigation in the context of an aid application. This scheme was abused because the payout institutions of the unemployment benefit and the RVA are given more time. The OCMW's even came into view that way. Is it useful and necessary, in your view, to review the decision-making periods, for example the decision-making period of the payout institutions and the RVA to take a decision on the granting of temporary unemployment, and to align them with that of the OMCWs? It is not the first time that we have been told that the aid fund is not working properly. That is not illogical either, given its joint management. Trade unions play a role in this, while they have little to gain from a very well-functioning auxiliary cash. Hence the bigger question, Minister, which I hope you will dare to ask in this legislative term, because something that has grown historically does not necessarily offer the best way of working. We can start to wonder whether we really need separate payouts for unemployment benefits. This applies both to the auxiliary cash and to the trade unions. This is not the way it is done in the Netherlands. It is also much more logical that a separate institution should not be created for this purpose. That is worth a bigger debate, Minister. I would like to hear from you whether you dare to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u7	Minister, I refer to my question, which I asked in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u8	In November we had an exchange on this, where you mentioned that different solutions had been found: staff had been hired (but it took six months to train an agent, which is quite legitimate given the nature of the work) and on the other hand, staff from the central administration had been mobilised. Today, the warning signals continue to reach us: the situation is still not standardized, while the number of people unemployed Covid has decreased. The difficulties also remain extremely present in trade unions, which face the same realities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u9	Minister, can you tell me: - What is the state of payment of unemployment cases in total and specifically Covid unemployment at the beginning of January? - How many more people were hired at CAPAC and when? It would make sense for a first cohort of new agents to be already operational; is that the case? - How many central government officials have been mobilised exactly? For how long? - If so, what additional measures are you considering to remedy the delays? - What information do you currently have on delays in the payment of temporary unemployment in trade unions? Is a dialogue under way to find solutions for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u10	Minister, I have another supplementary question on the problem of communication with the people who have not yet received their benefit. Apparently they send a lot of e-mails and contact them by phone, but they don't get very many answers to the questions they ask. Is there any work to be done on communicating with the beneficiaries who have difficulty in obtaining their benefits? After all, it is important to explain why people have to wait so long for their benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u11	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish everyone good health. Since last year, there have been numerous complaints about the time limit for dealing with the unemployment benefit fund. We understand that the workload increased tremendously in March and April. For example, the number of files I had requested figures on this matter went from 95.925 in March to 321.326 in April. No other payment institution, ADVV, ACV and ACLBV, saw such a percentage increase. We're more than six months later now. You yourself indicate that 85% of the files were handled within one month. This means that as many as 15% of those involved have to wait for their money, while much of them do not have the reserves to cover months of income. I can safely assume that there were personnel problems in March and April. The fact that they are still there six months later cannot be condoned. I also have the impression that the service is underfunded. The auxiliary cash, like the other three payment institutions, is allocated an amount per file. That is settled at KB of 16 September 1991. However, after some figures and calculations based on the gross figures you have provided, I note that the auxiliary cash for the months of March to August is barely getting a good EUR 25 per file, while the other payout institutions receive amounts per file between EUR 33.5 and EUR 38. Of course, this is so-called advances, but we believe that this is a deliberate and structural under-financing of the aid fund. Where is this very significant difference in the financing of the aid fund, which cannot even be explained by the explanation of a provisional statement? I also liked to have an overview of the staff of the auxiliary cash. Why, in view of the urgency, was no staff from the FOD seconded to that service?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u12	Madam President, first of all, I would like to express my best wishes to the Minister and to those to whom I have not yet had the opportunity to do so. This is a debate that we had last year. It must be acknowledged that we were actually caught a little short, at the beginning of the pandemic. Nevertheless, CAPAC and trade union organizations have done their best. But in this case, knowing that the situation was not going to improve and that the workload would be enormous, we could have taken the lead. I am thinking of the beneficiaries who, as has been said, really need to receive their compensation, but also the agents concerned. I don't have a magic formula to offer you, but you really have to find a solution. On the other hand, the minister knows that we are not at all in favour of the idea that trade union organisations could no longer deal with the management of these social allowances. Indeed, it is important that they continue to be able to intervene in the social system we know. Far from the idea of idealizing the situation, but I know that trade union organisations have called on activists, delegates, trade union workers who had less work to do because of the pandemic to strengthen these services. CAPAC should no doubt engage, but could not also consider other avenues, including other workers who could provide voluntary assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for these questions, which allow me to take stock of the situation of CAPAC which is of particular concern to me. As you know, temporary unemployment is the main tool for companies and workers to cope with the social and economic consequences of the coronavirus crisis. Since the beginning of the crisis, 164,044 employers have resorted to temporary unemployment, which has affected nearly 1.6 million workers in our country. Of course, this results in a significant increase in the number of cases to be processed by payment agencies and, in particular, by CAPAC. [[Why singularly?]] Because many workers were or are concerned for the first time with unemployment when they were, for the most part, not affiliated with a trade union. As a residual fund, CAPAC had to deal with all these new cases, which, in addition, concerned employers and workers who were not accustomed to this specific and relatively complex regulation. For example, in April 2020, the volume of applications for temporary unemployment in CAPAC increased by 57. In addition to this exponential increase in workload, there is a complete reorganisation of work and services to deal with the crisis: from the closing of the windows in the first confinement to the setting up and organisation of telework, in particular. Obviously, measures have been taken and enormous efforts have been and are still being made. During this crisis, 70 new employees were recruited. Students and special federal forces were also employed to ensure the administrative processing of certain files. Central government workers have been and are being mobilised wherever possible. This represents nearly 154 agents. CAPAC always checks how to process files as efficiently as possible, including through an online form and automating certain processes to help insured persons more quickly. Twenty-five FMAS officers provide automation and digitization of the processing of forms. CAPAC staff, whom I would like to thank once again, are fully engaged and making a great deal of effort. He has frequently worked overtime on a voluntary basis, including weekends. I can assure you that all staff are involved in the priority processing of cases. In order to process the files as efficiently as possible, some processes for processing applications and payments for temporary and partial temporary unemployment have been partially automated. Further automation is planned in the short term. A project has also recently been launched to accelerate the treatment of the growing number of applications for full unemployment. Through the website, HVW users who have made an appointment can prepare their application via an online form. In this way, the employee can take the first simple steps for his or her remote application, which saves time both for employees in the offices and for the beneficiary. Finally, the paper documents have been digitised so that they can also be dealt with more quickly. There is also a revision of the computer system to improve things in the longer term. These efforts are not in vain. A positive element should be stressed. As a result of regulatory changes, approximately 90% of temporary unemployment cases are dealt with almost immediately. However, many of you have mentioned the difficulties that are real. They are becoming more and more problematic as the crisis continues. Approximately 10% of files cannot be processed immediately due, among other things, to their complexity, and to various difficulties that require manual processing. For example, for the month of November 2020, 12% of files were problematic and could not be processed within the month. If this is a minority of cases, given the total number of beneficiaries, a large number of people are affected by these delays. The processing of these more complex demands takes much more time because they require manual work which must be carried out by an expert in the regulation of unemployment. In addition, these experts are also mobilised for other tasks such as the verification procedures of the ONEM. Moreover, the increase in full unemployment also has a significant impact, as a dossier on full unemployment takes much longer time and requires a longer procedure, including acceptance of the file by the RVA. Those files also require greater expertise from HRW staff. This therefore results in a considerable delay in the handling of complex temporary unemployment dossiers, which accumulate as the crisis continues. The government has taken steps to relieve CAPAC's expert staff, notably through the return to a simplified temporary unemployment procedure, a longer period for payment agencies to verify payments and a limitation of ONEM's release of the most modest amounts. It should be noted that the 40 contract staff recruited under the Corona provision in the second half of 2020 greatly contributed to limiting processing times that were too long in some cases. In addition, the government requested CAPAC's access to the Corona 2021 provision, in order to be able to extend the contracts of workers engaged since the beginning of the crisis. With CAPAC, we are also thinking about complementary recruitment, including strengthening the call centre. However, it must be kept in mind that future employees will have to be trained for several months before they have complete control over the unemployment regulations. This training conducted by the current CAPAC officers obviously requires a huge investment and commitment from them. You should also be aware that January is usually the most difficult month for payment agencies, because of the combination of annual holidays for the unemployed, which causes more work, both in terms of processing the files and of information to be communicated to the insured persons. This year, due to the pre-existing situation, CAPAC expects a really difficult January. However, it was keen to anticipate the work following the annual holidays and to mobilize its staff from 28 to 31 December, as well as the weekend of 2 and 3 January. If the work remains important, part of it has already been done. CAPAC therefore hopes for an improvement in the situation for the month of February. The HRW's priority is to process the files quickly. I can assure you that there are no priority cases. Some procedures are longer and more complex and cannot be dealt with as quickly as they require an expert. In order to prevent this situation from affecting the employee even more, we have decided, together with the RVA, that if the file is submitted too late, this will not lead to a restriction on entitlement to benefit. As regards the accessibility of the HVW, I am of course aware that the situation is very difficult and that many workers cannot reach the auxiliary cash. The reception of users is very important, even though the processing of existing files is the first priority. Approximately 70 officers are mobilized daily to answer the telephone. However, the average number of calls to CAPAC is 10,000 per day. You will easily understand that this is a considerable number. To give an idea, as a call lasts an average of 12 minutes, CAPAC staff would have to work 29 hours a day to process all calls, which is obviously impossible today. Alternative solutions are therefore sought and put in place to increase contacts and better respond to citizens. For example, since December, CAPAC has introduced an instant messaging system, which can absorb three to four times more conversations than by telephone. It also used automatic e-mails as well as the massive opening of reception desks in payment offices for urgent cases. Video-conference appointments are also offered. At the government level, with the ONEM, we continue to simplify procedures to ensure the best information and compensation for workers waiting for a temporary unemployment benefit. With regard to the issues relating to the merger of payment funds, the speeding up of certain payment deadlines, in particular those relating to procedures which are applicable at the level of the CPAS, I do not think that these are now urgent cases. The real urgency is to ensure that all applications for temporary unemployment benefits are processed as quickly as possible to ensure that those who depend on them to live and pay their bills can receive the payment as soon as possible and under the best possible conditions. I can assure you that everything is being done at the CAPAC level to ensure that files are dealt with diligently and that the backlog in some more complex, or even more problematic, files is resolved as soon as possible. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the answer that I could provide to these important questions and concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers and your full presentation. It is true that this number of cases to be processed is impressive, as is the number of telephone calls received daily by CAPAC. I hear that reinforcements are there and that there is a great mobilization of the teams in place, including those working overtime. This mobilisation is really very positive and will help to eliminate the delay, even if I mean that there are about 10% of the files that are complex and require manual processing and expert intervention. I can hear that everything can't be solved with a magic wand. I think the effort must be sustained. I also hear that the government has put in place a whole series of measures to simplify and ease certain procedures. More and more, we will digitize certain procedures, some forms. An instant messaging system will be set up just like the automatic sending of emails. All this goes in the right direction. This is not the time to relax efforts, and I wish CAPAC colleagues every courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u15	Minister, I have no doubt that the staff of the auxiliary cash are making enormous efforts, with voluntary overtime and weekend work, to put as many files in order as possible. I thank them for that, too. I cannot, however, get the impression that the problems arise mainly in the more complex cases. You say that 90% of cases are now being dealt with immediately, and that will undoubtedly be ordinary cases of temporary unemployment. In particular, I am receiving distress calls from the cultural sector and the event sector. These are more complex dossiers, because they work with day contracts and fall back on ordinary unemployment or unemployment according to the artist's statute. For the cancelled daily contracts, this is temporary unemployment. This will require the intervention of experts, and perhaps we should concentrate more on this. These are difficult dossiers that cannot be answered by job students by telephone. I can imagine that there is a need for training and a certain amount of expertise. In the meantime, the persons concerned have been without income for months, resulting in additional pressure on the OCMWs. Of course, the people involved continue to call. I can imagine that I would also be on the phone every day with questions about my file if I had no income. As a result, the pressure on the staff of the auxiliary cash will of course continue to increase. Perhaps we should use additional experts to put these files in order, although I realise that they cannot be magical. After all, if these applicants receive their benefits, the pressure on the auxiliary cash will be reduced, with fewer telephone contacts and e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Firstly, I would like to point out that the situation must be extremely frustrating for the staff of both the auxiliary and the trade union, whose mindset is one to help people as quickly as possible. Secondly, I have the impression that you are addressing the problem, Minister. It's only natural that the problem was caught by the horns. After all, there are people behind the figures, who have been out of income for months. I don't really know how they do it in such a situation. As Mr Vanrobaeys and others have said, the OCMWs, in addition to the many extra work due to the crisis, must also deal with massive demands for advances. Mr Vanrobaeys is right when she says that the problem is mostly in the 10 percent probably more complex dossiers from the arts and events sector. You're talking about 90 versus 10%. A few weeks ago, you spoke of a deficit of about 5% of the files at the auxiliary cash register, corresponding to about 5,000 applicants. How many applicants are they talking about in those 10 % files? Is there anything else you can say about those numbers? You say that the central administration was also deployed, which is a very good thing. There are, of course, other officials who, unfortunately, temporarily have less work due to the crisis. Has any thought been given to including officials from other services? This is not evident and can perhaps only be used as an administrative matter, given the complexity of the dossiers. I did not receive an immediate answer to these two supplementary questions. I trust that you will continue to take up the issue, because it is incredibly important that the applicants get what they are entitled to and receive an income to reach at least the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u17	Mr Minister, Mr Willaert had the ambition not to repeat myself, and I can assure you that I will certainly not do so, as I do not agree with the praises you have already received from the previous speakers. You have started your answer with something very interesting, as you often have interesting answers. This time you started by saying that one of the elements that plays a role is that a lot of people were not members of a union. That's right. Your answer therefore shows that the unions were ready and ready, and that they are adapting to a new situation, while the auxiliary cash and government were not ready at the start of the lockdown and are still not ready nine months later. There's no way to explain the latter. I should like to congratulate the staff of the aid fund who are not under the market and who have to do their work in ungrateful circumstances. I am concerned that these employees should be given much better support in the work they carry out, often seven days in seven days today. Better support is all the more necessary because it concerns thousands of families, who must continue to be able to pay off their invoices, rent and mortgage. The problems are not new, but have been known for months. You have lost most of your time explaining why some things are extremely difficult. You know, at the moment when a head of the household has to pay an invoice, it's hard for him to explain to the company that it's all so hard for him. Those people don't buy anything with that. With your answer people don't buy anything either. The government has been behind for months and nothing changes. It is true that special expertise and knowledge are needed to do that work and to catch up. Surely it cannot be the intention that this movement of catching up should be used only now, as I am distracting from your reply, when several members of this committee have been knocking on that nail for months. It is actually vengeful that we have to deduce from your answer that the unions were ready, but not the government. The citizen who is not a union member is screwed. That is, of course, very bad. My good colleague Valerie Van Peel has also asked interesting questions and will probably go into more detail about the role of the trade unions in this matter and the evil of the whole story. I'm rounding up. I find it irresponsible that the problems have not been reduced nine months after the date, but have become bigger. You have also said in so many words that the longer the crisis takes, the greater the problems. You have more or less concluded by saying that the aid fund hopes that the situation will be better in February. I will give this to the families whose invoices accumulate in ever larger piles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u18	Minister, I agree with the previous speaker. I'm a little disappointed in you. This is the first time that I have heard you give such a typical Belgian answer, whereby the problems are shifted to four months by extending the deadlines in which the payout institutions can react. The fact that we continue to tax the OCMWs that have to cover the four months is not your competence. That's another problem for the other minister in your government. It's called pushing through problems and bringing some numbers from here to there. What I find most regrettable in this regard is that it is not even about the last nine months alone that we are only reacting when everything goes wrong. Suddenly we see that the auxiliary cash can't handle it this time and that this will also be in the press. That's when we respond and hire extra staff. Suddenly we go too, which is totally funny, thinking about automation. Mr Minister, automation is not something that is realized in a few months' time. That's something people should've been doing for years. Instead of trying to avoid problems in this country, we always put patches on the wound. This is a very good example of that. You said that the auxiliary cash is thinking about digital ways to respond to citizens' questions. That's almost laughable when people hear it like that. You have to designate me, outside a government agency, another institution that hasn't been working with automatic chats for years, automatic FAQs, automatic mailings to help people as quickly as possible. I can't believe we're not thinking about that until today. Of course, you do not address the two crucial questions that I am asking you and which would ensure that you would automate the auxiliary cash and the entire policy on benefit payment institutions. Look at the way management works today. Admit that this doesn't work and try to bring innovation to that. In particular, Minister, consider the usefulness of a payout institution. Other countries do not understand this point either, but we remain historically committed to it. You yourself have said what is the reason for that. Because this is the way unions can still recruit members. That's not an argument for messing up these days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u19	Minister, I am asking questions about this issue, not because it was in the press. I already did that in November, before it was published in the press, because we had received the signal that things were going wrong. Minister, I have no doubt that both you and your colleagues in the government are taking initiatives to address this problem. I also know, of course, that your employees are doing their best. But that does not solve the problem of those who are not ultimately helped in the short term. It is good to hear that 90% of applications are dealt with at a normal time, but that 10% have to wait for a benefit for months is not so normal, especially since it concerns people whose vast majority are unemployed for the first time, has to pay off all kinds of loans and may therefore get into trouble. Not everyone has a penny to pay the invoices in the meantime. If it is actually about more complex files, files that the auxiliary cash apparently needs some extra time for, it is certainly about files that will not be rejected. Maybe we still need calculations. My question is whether we should not change the rules rather than send the people to the OMCW in that case. Should we not ensure that the aid fund gives a decent advance and that the payment is made afterwards? Of course, this must be done by a statement on the honour of the data subject that the data provided are correct. You have already replied to a previous question that there was additional staff and that it took a long time to train it. Today, in your reply, you mentioned a number of figures on additional staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u20	Mrs Lanjri, I should like to inform you that your two-minute speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u21	Madam President, I thought this was a mini-debate. I therefore did not ask my question, but referred to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u22	There is a time to be observed for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u23	Madam President, is it a mini-debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u24	For the reply, speaking time is traditionally one minute and in a topical and urgent debate of two minutes. Of course we can go all the way, but I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u25	Madam President, I will conclude very briefly. Mr. Secretary, can you give me the personnel figures in an excel file? You reply that it will be a while before the additional staff will be trained. Minister, how long will this training take? Could you not contact those who are temporarily technically unemployed and possibly come from call centres for this purpose? Can't you use them? Finally, I would like to suggest that, if necessary, we should sit with the people with expertise, including the trade unions, in order to see how it is possible for them to deal with the new applications in a good way and quickly, which seems to be more severe in the case of the aid fund. It is therefore possible to exchange experience in this area. Colleagues of the N-VA, the above suggests that we should not underestimate the role of the trade unions, just because the figures show that they are doing things efficiently. I hear you now making a plea to abolish everything. That is not appropriate because we find that they are doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u26	Madam President, I had just given my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u27	Madam Chair, when I spoke at the time, I missed my most basic duty and failed to wish my best wishes to the Minister, to the services that support our work and to our colleagues. That's fixed. Minister, you answer a lot of questions, but there are some things that have not yet been answered. For example, unless I'm wrong, you haven't given the number of files that are late today. You mentioned the number of 17,000 cases in the fall. Another element appeared in my question and did not receive an answer. You mentioned that 154 people from headquarters were mobilized. I was wondering for how long. However, this is an essential factor, given that the second wave still has its effects and that January is, as you said, a difficult month. I would like to stress very positively that we hear a great deal of goodwill from the government, from the ONEM, from CAPAC. That's a really good signal. This means that the problems of those waiting for unemployment benefit are taken into account. Thank you. Indeed, some families are experiencing dramatic situations. We've already talked about it. We all receive testimony in this regard. I hear you made 40 commitments on the 2020 Corona provision. You said it took six months to train the officers to be effective. You said you were thinking about mobilising the 2021 Corona provision. Of course, I strongly urge you to do so, so that those officers who have been hired and are beginning to be effective now can continue their work and continue to support them. Now's the time to keep putting a hit on it. You talked about the government's actions. I hear voluntarism. You're thinking about recruiting. In my reply in November, I hoped that the measures that were coming were not already too late for CAPAC staff. I really hope that this staff is not too exhausted to be able to meet their obligations now. In any case, the support you give goes in the right direction. I invite you to continue to seek solutions so that the unemployed can receive their benefits in time and time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is clear that there is a movement to catch up so that the files can be dealt with. I'm a little worried. Even if it is about 10% of cases, it is about families who are in trouble and have a lot of difficulty keeping their heads above water, because they have suddenly fallen into temporary unemployment because of COOVID-19, whereas they have always contributed to social security before and ultimately expect to get their benefits very quickly. I therefore hope that the dossiers will be dealt with quickly so that the applicants still have an income and can live decently. Invoices continue to be sent to them as well. If they do not have reserves, this leads to many problems and ultimately to an increase in poverty. Furthermore, I attach great importance to communication. Anyone who contacts the auxiliary cash to get an explanation of why his or her file is delayed is entitled to a decent answer. That is why I can fully understand the need for the call centre staff to receive serious training in order to provide answers. We need to work quickly on good communication so that applicants can have a perspective. Now they don't get an answer or an automatic answer. That's not enough. This ultimately leads to even more problems in families. In any case, I am pleased to hear that you are working on solutions. I am also glad that there will be a catch-up in the field of communication. So the people involved know what stage their file is at. Indeed, as other colleagues have already pointed out, the stakeholders often ask for information from the OMCW, but this cannot provide information because it cannot consult the file. Therefore, it is important to communicate about the individual files. In this way, we can give applicants a perspective on the payment of their benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand, of course, the reasons for these delays. We are experiencing an unprecedented crisis: 164,000 employers today have resorted to temporary unemployment, causing a considerable increase in cases. I would also like to commend the work done by CAPAC staff. I hear the new measures that you are setting out that will help relieve workers waiting for their allowances. I also hear the additional solutions put in place. I hear commitments, and other commitments for call centers. I think it's going in the right direction. I welcome the steps taken. As you said, 90% of files are processed almost immediately. We will have to be really careful and take appropriate and rapid action for the remaining 10%. These people find themselves in need today. Nevertheless, I am convinced that you and the government are moving in the right direction. You are taking the necessary initiatives to help these people in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. Since my colleagues in the group have referred in a broader sense to the issue of treatment, I will refer more specifically to the beneficiaries of allocations under the "artist" status. This represents 10% of the files, which represents 60,000 workers. Of these, how many artists are involved? There must be a lot of them. It would be interesting to know where we stand in relation to these workers. Indeed, since there is a quantity of "micro-C4" (a C4 equals one file), they have sometimes received more than 15 files per month and these C4 cannot contain any error or they switch to these famous complex files to process. There is therefore a need for expertise and time – time that they do not have because the allowances are blocked. Minister, I still have a question because I am not sure I heard the answer. You seem to confirm here no longer blocking these rights. This information is important. If I understood correctly, in the event that a file is specifically processed "call for expertise", it would mean that the rights will still be granted, even if a signature is missing or a document to be scanned, etc. As far as the administrative burden and the difficulties of contact are concerned, we can approach those of the other agencies because they have undoubtedly taken a step forward. They may have anticipated, hired, found time and a strategy... But I mean many of the workers exhausted by the management of these files regardless of the payment fund. There is a real demand in terms of processing information as the administrative burden (impressions, scans, referrals) takes a considerable amount of time. You were talking about the 12 minutes per call. I wonder how many minutes are needed for a simple return of paper that would have been poorly signed or would require an additional document. I will stress that since the beginning of this crisis, we have used much of the "war as well as war" rengain in our alternative solutions. We used volunteers in nursing homes, hospitals, and voluntary dressmakers. This may be a question of calling upon those who, provided they are self-evident, claim to be in a position to deal with cases. I refer in particular to "artists" files. Some people supervise and support the social rights of these sectors, linked to extremely complex conditions, and work there. They offer their services to deal with more difficult cases. Would it not be possible, provided that the GDPR is respected, to sign agreements so that these people can come to support the few workers who have to work on these specific issues and who are completely drowned? I come to the right of appeal. You're talking about no longer blocking compensation. As a result, by simply calling or sending an e-mail, everyone could see their allowances unlocked. I don't think you answered the last question about anticipation for April 1. As statute renewal approaches, I think a serious traffic jam is going to happen. Clearly, the ONEM and the technicians are asking for artists to wait before filing their file again. I think that on April 1st, things will again be extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u31	Mr Minister, my conclusion of May 2020 that the failure of the HRW is a political responsibility remains valid. After all these months, the government still complains about a lack of qualified staff. There are additional staff for purely administrative and repetitive tasks. You're talking about those 70 newly recruited employees. They have also been able to involve job students, so that the employees could concentrate on the substantive handling of the files. For often complex files, which require more time because they require the intervention of an expert, the delay is due to the fact that these experts remain limited in number compared to the large number of files. In my view, an extra tooth could have been added in recent months to the proactive use of other government staff. There are certainly government institutions where the workload is rather minimal. I am thinking, for example, of the staff of the Royal Institute of the Elite of Labour. In addition, there is a growing suspicion that the trade unions will forward the more complex files to the HRW, while they will be paid to do that work. In this way, the HVW is twice the child of the account. Minister, I hope that priority will be given to the 10% of cases that were not dealt with in time. It is not normal that the payment of a benefit by a public authority should not be possible. As a result, the victims are no longer at risk of being financially successful. A public service, and especially one of the four payout institutions in this case, must ensure, above all, that people are accessible and accessible and not sent from the locker to the wall. Since you have not yet discussed the financing of the HVW, I assume that the problem is not there. Nevertheless, this funding seems very strange to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u32	Minister, I will try to be brief. First of all, I want to support you on a very important point: today, the urgency is not to have a debate on the role of trade union organisations or CAPAC in the management of social benefits. She knew how to solve the current problem, namely that between 10 and 15 per cent of people did not receive their allowances. And I'm asking myself a lot of questions about your answers, because even if good will appears, it won't be enough. I don't know if we realize what these ten percent of people are going through. Of course, in terms of numbers, 10% is little compared to 100%. But these 10 per cent of people, men, women and families are already experiencing economic anguish and even, thanks to this unemployment benefit, some will not be able to pay their bills, because this allowance does not correspond to the entire wage. However, in addition to the initial anguish, it is the fact that they do not even receive these allowances. I will support the comments made by my other colleague on the exhaustion of the need to manage administrative aspects, when we do not already know what is going to be put in his fridge and that we receive for the sixth time an e-mail or a small word in his mailbox or that we are confronted with a closed door, because there is no permanent 24 hours a day either at CAPC or in the union offices. It is a huge stress, which, in addition to economic problems, creates enormous mental health problems. And for that, I cannot agree to be content with your plan. Your government has been in place for three months now. Your previous colleague was already aware of this problem. I guess you had an exchange about that. We cannot accept this plan. It is not enough to ensure an early resolution of this problem. It is not normal that in the twenty-first century we cannot solve such a problem. I will also support all the supportive opportunities and initiatives that will be taken to assist CAPAC staff in addressing these so-called complicated issues. I am certainly not the specialist on unemployment problems and complicated issues. But I would like to have some concrete examples. What are these complex and complicated problems? From the moment you apply for an unemployment benefit, it's not because you're missing a piece of paper... you didn't say it, minister, but you don't have to infer that these people are fraudsters either. They really need their allowances. I really want to support the call for help in this area. And among these 10 per cent, how many of them are in the cultural sector? It's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, let us no longer start our interventions by saying that we are going to intervene briefly, because every time we lose ourselves! Me too! Minister, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u34	Yes, Madam President, very quickly. I propose to supplement my oral reply with statistical information which will be forwarded to the secretariat of the committee and subsequently to the various Members who have asked me. First, I would like to point out that when we talk about complicated files, it is also incomplete files, or files that, as a result of an analysis, will lead to the fact that people are not entitled to certain allowances, or files that were introduced at the beginning of the crisis and that should not have been introduced to CAPAC. In this 10%, we have both complex files because of the personal situation of the allowance claimants, files that have been improperly introduced or misdirected and therefore will not ultimately qualify for an allowance, and also incomplete, incorrect files. For this reason, CAPAC has made every effort to find contact with the various applicants, especially those involved in more complex cases, to exchange with them, eyes in the eyes, even if it is by interposed screen or other means, in order to try to unblock these difficult situations. I would like to point out that in those 10 per cent, which in any case represent too many, some cases, at the end of the investigation, will not be entitled to compensation because people are not in a situation in which CAPAC is required to intervene. It's probably a marginal part, but it exists. On the other hand, for some requests that concerned a particular period, the situation of people has changed in the meantime, fortunately. In addition, there are also a number of more specific situations in the cultural sector, which we are working on. At the level of my office, meetings are still planned with representatives of the cultural sector in order to point out certain difficulties and to be able to remedy them as quickly as possible. As I have already mentioned, the instruction has been given that the delay in the processing of files or the late submission of an application – which is also part of the backlog – is not punishable by a limitation of the allowances to be collected by the applicants. For the rest, as I said, a series of staff members were mobilized, coming from other jurisdictions or Federal Public Services. Commitments have been made. The will is indeed to be able to extend the contracts of the people who have been hired, who have been trained, and who, today, are at work to meet the demands. It is clear, and I will end with that, that the expertise is focused on the most complicated issues. Of course, we do not involve students or people who have just been hired and who are not yet fully trained to deal with the most complex issues. It is really CAPAC experts, with some seniority and recognized experience, who treat and deal with them. The least complex tasks are assigned to more recent and even to those who are forced to lend a hand in support of the personnel on the CAPAC payroll. My priorities are to ensure a rapid response to these situations. I share your concern. We have regular contacts with CAPAC and with its management committee, on which the social partners sit. There is therefore also a sharing of experience and expertise between CAPAC, its management committee and the social partners, especially the trade union organisations, which are also faced with an increase in the number of cases to be managed and the allowances to be granted and liquidated in recent months. It's obvious. This sharing of information already exists with CAPAC's management system and its structures. These are concerns that are shared, expertise that is exchanged between the different structures. I would like to reiterate my commitment, together with CAPAC, to ensure that the delay is resolved as quickly as possible and that those entitled to benefits also receive it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u35	Minister, in your second reply, you have lost yourself again in the story of the complex dossiers, why it is all so difficult, why it is all so difficult and how it keeps going. For each applicant who makes an application for the first time, the most simple dossier is particularly complex, but it should not hide behind it either. It now needs the benefit every month and there is no discussion about it if he is entitled to it. The explanation doesn't give him a message. All we want is a system that works well for every citizen who is entitled to a temporary unemployment benefit. There isn't any today. You say that there are a lot of things that make it difficult for you, but that you, not to be sad, are doing your best. You are doing your best, but today we find that your best is not enough. The backlog is not shrinking, quite the contrary. You also indicate that the longer the crisis takes, the greater the problems. However, I would like to point out that the number of calls will only increase the workload of the auxiliary cash, because the greater the delay, the more calls you can expect from applicants who are waiting fruitlessly for the benefit. We are doing our best, you say, and we will continue to do our best, but that is not enough. We do want a system that works for every citizen, but it is precisely not going to happen, because nothing will change fundamentally. I believe that a number of fundamental questions need to be answered and that a number of things need to be addressed in a structural manner. In conclusion, the answer we have now heard, Minister, shows that you are putting your finger on the wound, but there is no message to those concerned. The 10% is about thousands of families and they need this benefit. What explanation you can give why something is complex and difficult, the invoices remain. The hungry mouths at the breakfast table in the morning are there every day again, and fortunately, because that usually brings some luck too. There's no explanation for that delay. You should've gotten rid of it a long time ago. You lose yourself in your answers just a little too much in looking for excuses why something doesn't work, while you should focus on making the system work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u36	Mr Minister, we are now ten months later and I may be repeating myself, but the conclusion remains that it is not working, it is still limping with the auxiliary cash. You say that extra staff will be trained, but they can't be deployed for another six months. It's really hard to understand. Mr Anseuw also said it earlier, we are still at 10%. Applicants no longer see the trees through the forest, who do not know how to pay their electricity bill. I think that's substandard from a government agency. So doing his best is absolutely not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u37	Minister, I understand the explanations. The situation is extremely complicated. However, I would like to stress that silence must be avoided, regardless of the payment fund, because the most crazy thing is to send an e-mail, two e-mails, three e-mails or to call and have no answer and no one online. This crisis means that human contact and interpersonal relationships are already very complex. It is important to avoid people having this feeling of injustice. Mr Minister, I therefore appeal to you to at least try to communicate this reality and to make sure that the situation is explained by a broad, public, official communication from the government or via the press and the media. I think that this good will is no longer audible at all, and I know that these are human difficulties. Personally, I don't know what to say to people who send us desperate e-mails when they say: "They don't answer me anymore. I don't have anything. I don't have any more allowances." I don't want to go into something extremely heavy, but I still want to give you the example of a mother whose little girl is three years old and who, having no more allowances or allowances, asks me what she needs to do. I can't answer him and it's unbearable. Minister, I understand the situation and I hear the explanations. I know that everyone is trying to find solutions, but perhaps we have to answer the problem of silence with regard to those people who, legitimately, can no longer be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u38	Mr Minister, I would like to take this up briefly. In fact, I think you should not just send out a message through the press and the media. People must be given an answer at the point of contact. Should we say to people who are addressing the aid fund that they should read the newspaper or listen to the radio? Mrs Leroy has a surplus of right when she says that applicants should be given answers. The longer the delays, the more calls the auxiliary cash will get. That's a vicious circle. So you need to step up more than one tooth. The parties concerned are entitled to reply, not only via the press or by means of announcements in the media, but at the point of contact themselves, by telephone or by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u39	Madam President, first of all, we would like to apologize to the services for having late sent an e-mail concerning duplicates. We have also mistakenly introduced some questions in Dutch. I imagine the minister will answer us in Dutch. My reply will unfortunately be in French, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u40	Madam President, I thank Mrs Moscufo for her little message of apology for the services. His apologies are of course accepted, at least by my teams and my administrations. I understand the difficulty of pointing out some questions. I've also known that. Mrs Moscufo, with regard to your first set of questions on fraudulent bankruptcies and the various possible sanctions in this case, I would refer you to my colleague and Minister of Justice, who is primarily responsible for this matter. However, I will not fail to draw his attention to all aspects of workers' rights. Regarding your second set of questions, as you point out, the Renault law is not applicable in bankruptcy. I am very sensitive to the improvement of democracy at work, to the duty of information and to the right of consultation. This also applies at company level, whether periodically or on an ad hoc basis. At the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council (EPSCO) on 13 October, I joined the other Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs of the Member States of the European Union in stressing the importance of the involvement of workers in the decision-making processes of their companies, in particular in the event of major reorganization, closure, merger and acquisition, downsizing, outsourcing or relocation. As regards the intervention of the Enterprise Closure Fund, in its audit report published in July 2019, the Court of Auditors found that the ceilings for compensation paid at the end of the employment contract were not indexed and had not been revised since 2009. The Court asked the Fund to assess whether the current amounts remained adequate in the light of the objectives pursued and to make proposals for adaptation where appropriate. The Fund is expected to finalize its analysis very soon and on its basis will submit a proposal to its management body later this year. I will therefore await this analysis and this proposal from the social partners before taking any decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u41	Minister, thank you. We have heard your answer: you will therefore consult your colleague from Justice on the first part of the questions. As far as the ceilings are concerned, I thank you for the information. In any case, this problem must attract our full attention, given the particular circumstances that we are going through. As you have just said, we need to think about something structured, in relation to democracy in the company. I am thinking not only of consulting the workers, but also of the need to entrust them with control tools – as is already partly the case with the Renault law. For the rest, we will soon come back to these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u42	Minister, a recent study by the Directorate-General for Work of the European Commission shows that Belgium is the only country in the euro area that has so much difficulty with labour market change. When low or middle skilled workers are systematically more unemployed than highly skilled workers, this indicates a labour market that is struggling to cope with changes. This is more true than ever in Belgium. In almost all countries routine work is declining, which means that jobseekers have to receive higher education in order to still have a chance in the labour market. The European Commission's investigation also predicts that the mismatch will increase in Belgium. In order to eliminate mismatches, several issues are important, such as improving productivity, training, combining strong social security and promoting research and development. Minister, what policy conclusions do you draw from the investigation I mentioned? Do you recognise the mismatch in the labour market? What policies will you take to restore mismatch in the labour market? Will you take extra care to ensure that the mismatch does not increase due to the current corona crisis? What specific measures will you take in this respect? Do you also underline the importance of training and lifelong learning? How do you want to reach the lower skilled, so that they get the right training and how do you want to enthuse them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u43	Mr Anseuw, the European Commission's annual country studies show that the lack of job mobility is one of the structural problems of our labour market. Increasing efficiency and productivity is explicitly mentioned in the coalition agreement and we recognise the challenges mentioned above. Making work attractive and making careers sustainable through attention to workability and employability are therefore central points of the government agreement. The matching on the labour market is primarily the responsibility of the regions, including through training policies, the support of jobseekers and active labour market policies. The federal government supports these efforts. It therefore intends to organise an annual employment conference to develop and evaluate concrete action plans together with the Länder, the social partners and other stakeholders. Ensuring and increasing employability is indeed very important in the current circumstances. Therefore, the mandatory provision of training days was added as a condition for applying the relaxed temporary unemployment for economic reasons. Training and training policies are to a large extent a matter for the Regions and the Communities, but the federal government agreement also contains proposals on the labour market and work organisation, with a specific focus on guiding the most vulnerable people to work. The government will, inter alia in consultation with the social partners and the Länder, focus on training and training of workers throughout their careers, for example through the introduction of an individual training account, i.e. an individual right to training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. When it comes to training, the Regions do indeed play an important role in this. It's a good thing you want to support them from the federal government. I suspect and hope, above all, that this will not only be done on the basis of action plans that emerge from the employment conference that you want to hold annually, because the theme for 2021 is end of life. The mismatch will obviously have to wait a little longer. I would have hoped that, with regard to job mobility, you would be much more committed to making our labour market more flexible. This is the key to generating more job mobility. Perhaps you could have shed a little more concrete light on the asymmetric labour market policy that you can actually pursue. This is in fact included in the coalition agreement. I do not hide the fact that I remain somewhat hungry, because it is the federal government that holds a number of important keys when it comes to labour market policy, making that labour market more flexible and job mobility. I will certainly come back to it, because I suspect that this debate is yet to begin and will certainly not end with the answer you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u45	Questions Nos 55010851C and 55011096C by Ms Cornet and 55010916C by Ms Willaert are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u46	Mr Minister, I have a small suspicion that my colleague from the PVDA will formulate this question a little differently. The correct court of Liège has condemned 17 trade union members of the ABVV-FGTB, including Chairman Bodson, for the malicious obstruction of traffic, leading to a dead person. In addition, there was a complaint from a doctor. The passage to a patient was obstructed. The conviction is what she is. The court has, I think, rightly condemned it. It is regrettable, however, that 17 members were individually endorsed. This is, of course, due to the fact that the trade unions in Belgium have so far refused to accept legal personality. However, there is an international right to legal personality, as a derivative of the right to association, precisely in order to avoid individual trade union militants being held personally liable when they execute the orders of their trade union. This is normal in other countries, but this is of course a bit different. Do you not think, Minister, that it would be much better for the trade unions to have legal personality in our country as well? What do you think about that? Do you intend to take legal initiatives to this end? If not, why not? I also found the response of the ABVV to the verdict to be rather hallucinating. The ABBV goes first against the judicial decision in appeal. That is their right, of course, but actions were also announced on 1 December. Luckily, they didn't work very well. In the corona era and the associated economic crisis, I found that a very wrong signal. I would like to know what you're up against, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u47	Mrs Moscufo has the floor on the same question, which I think will be put in a substantially different way. [[laughs]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u48	Madam President, I would normally refer to the written question. Now, I'm going to take a moment to put it down because I don't want any assimilations. First of all, we register completely falsely with regard to the information just given, as well as with the trade union organisations. The problem of what happened there has nothing to do with a person who allegedly did not arrive at the doctor in time. The concrete situation and its analysis prove that it is not linked to social action. Here's a first thing. Instead, we are faced with a law dating back to 1970 which condemned trade unionists in the practice of their social activism. For us, this is a very serious precedent. In the first place, the trade unions themselves do not intend to be allowed to do so, especially since it was clear at the time of the adoption of this law that it would not be applied in the context of social actions. However, this was the case here, but also in Antwerp, concerning a union secretary of the ABVV. My questions are as follows: (re)do you confirm that this law should not be applied in the context of collective actions? Do you intend to take initiatives to reshape the situation, so that this law is no longer applied in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u49	Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Moscufo, you are referring to the decision of the Liège Correctional Court. Out of respect for the separation of powers, I will not comment on that verdict. I've never done that before, and I never will. My respect for the rule of law is too great for that. It is not for me to judge whether an organization is allowed to demonstrate or not. Freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate are fundamental elements of our democracy. Everyone is free to exercise their rights and freedoms. As regards the way in which the right to demonstrate should be exercised during the health crisis, I refer to the decisions of the Consultation Committee and the measures taken by the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden. Nor is it for me to judge whether an organisation should choose an organisation with legal personality. Freedom of association is also a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 27 of the Constitution. My administration has already carried out an analysis of the introduction of legal personality for trade unions after legislative proposals have been submitted. An unfavourable opinion was issued at the time because the objectives could not be achieved and the proposal would be contrary to the Belgian Constitution and various international rules. It is also wrong to say that a criminal conviction could not have been pronounced if the trade unions had a legal personality. Finally, the lack of legal personality does not prevent specific obligations from being imposed on the trade union. For example, they may be required to pay compensation for non-compliance with obligations arising from a collective agreement under Article 4 of the Collective Labour Agreement Act. Social dialogue is based on a balance between workers' and employers' representatives and, as you know, this dialogue is very important to the entire government and, in particular, to me. So I certainly do not intend to exclude certain representative organisations from the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for that last addition. I don't know who asked to exclude someone from the social consultation. Framing can count. Mr Minister, you are going a little beyond that, I am not afraid of it, knowing which party you are and in what direction you are thinking of the fact that the right to demonstrate and the right to strike, rights that no one here questions, would be absolute and without restrictions. Of course they're not. The malicious and voluntary obstruction of traffic is not for nothing in criminal law. I think that this situation makes it clear once again that the rights and duties of such organisations should be clearly defined. In order to make it a little easier for you, we have prepared a bill that you will soon be able to expect in committee. Then we shall certainly discuss this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, I would like to recall the framework within which this social movement took place. At the time, the workers were confronted with the austerity measures of the Michel government. Do not imagine that the unions decide to take action just like this, to go for a walk! There are other beautiful walks to do only demonstrations and strikes! We were faced with an index jump, new taxes, austerity, raising the pension age. This generated a great reaction in the world of work with, among other things, in October 2015, a demonstration that had brought together more than 100 000 people in Brussels. I want to defend all these actions because they are an integral part of our social history. It is precisely thanks to all these manifestations of the world of work that we have been able to obtain the day of 8 hours, but also that we have taken the children out of the mines. I am not surprised that those who have defended austerity are, at the same time, those who consider that it is not necessary to fight for rights. Secondly, I would like to say that the condemnation of trade unionists in Liège has nothing to do with the so-called blockage of traffic. They were convicted not because they had blocked, but because they were there. So that goes a step further. Finally, I agree with you that this constitutes a major infringement of democratic rights. We want to continue to encourage the social movement. I also send all my solidarity to those workers who have been condemned and who will not be allowed to do so. Social struggle will be necessary because, unfortunately, austerity will not stop, even with this new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u52	Allow me to draw your attention to the chronometer. We have a lot of questions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u53	Madam President, Minister, the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work lays down the legal framework for employers' regulatory training obligations. Article 9 of the Law on workable and manoeuvrable work also defines what is meant by formal training. I quote: "For the purposes of this section, a formal training course developed by teachers or speakers means courses or internships. These training courses are characterised by a high degree of organisation of the trainer or training institution and continue in a place clearly separated from the workplace." Corona only provides digital training, which can of course be followed in any place. Those who do telework and also receive online training often do so from the same place. Nevertheless, there is still Article 9 of the law workable and manoeuvrable work. Minister, I have some questions for you to clarify. Firstly, is the digital training of the workplace a formal training separate from the workplace? Secondly, is taking up a digital education through homework one of the workplace separated, formal training? Thirdly, does your answer differ according to whether telework is required by the corona measures or is carried out in agreement between employer and employee? With regard to the three questions, closed yes-no questions, I would also like to know why you are giving a specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u54	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, thank you for your question. Digital training which meets the elements of the definition can also be regarded as formal training. The fact that an employee undergoes digital training at his workplace, either from his home or from any other place he chooses in the context of telework, for example, does not affect the condition that the training must continue in a place clearly separated from the workplace. In this context, it makes no difference whether telework is mandatory as a result of the corona measures or is carried out in free agreement between employer and employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u55	Minister, just to clarify. Is, as far as you are concerned, taking up digital training in the workplace also a formal training separate from the workplace? That slipped my mind for a second. Is the answer yes? [[Assent]] Okay. I think that we can decide on this. There is, of course, one reason why, in the context of the training obligation, the passage in the law is that the training site must be separated from the workplace. On the other hand, I fully understand that corona times impose so many restrictions on people that it is impossible to take formal training otherwise. I fully understand this, but it may be useful to draw up legislation in the future in such a way that it can be dealt with, so that this kind of uncertainty does not arise or persist. Of course, the answer that you are now giving us is important, but it is different. It is difficult to interpret it differently than the words that are there, so perhaps the issue of updating the rules is on the table. This brings clarity and gives employers the opportunity to meet their training obligations in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u56	Madam President, Minister, a phenomenon is becoming increasingly present in our territory: video redundancies via video conferencing platforms. Companies that currently fire workers do so through Zoom, Teams or other similar platforms. The excuse hidden back there? Compliance with health standards. You will not disapprove of the extremely inhuman and impersonal nature of these practices. Minister, can a company virtually announce to its worker the termination of an employment contract? What does the legislation say about this? In addition, is it not a problem that there is no physical evidence of dismissal? In addition, do you have any figures on this practice? Had video conferencing redundancies already taken place in Belgium before the Covid-19 crisis? What is the impact of this crisis on this practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u57	Mrs Thémont, thank you for your question. As you know, the concept of leave is defined as the act by which one party unilaterally informs the other party that it has decided to terminate the employment contract. In this context, in principle, the party who breaks the contract must give notice to the other party, in accordance with the rules and formalities laid down in article 37 of the Act of 3 July 1978 on the contract of employment. This means that if the employer terminates the contract of employment unilaterally, he is obliged to notify the worker either by registered letter or by exploit of the bailiff. If the employer has failed to comply with these formalities, notice is deemed null and void and a penalty is provided for in articles 39 and 40 of the Labour Contract Act. This means that the employer who has terminated the contract of employment, without complying with the formalities laid down, must pay the worker compensation equal to the current remuneration corresponding either to the duration of the period of notice or to the part of that period remaining to run. In other words, when the employer announces to a worker by video conferencing that he or she is dismissed immediately, the employer does not comply with the notice formalities. Therefore, the penalty provided for in Articles 39 and 40 will apply. Notification of the leave may be given orally. It is obvious, however, that in this case the rules on notice are not respected. However, the worker may request that his employer be informed in writing of the concrete reasons for his dismissal in accordance with CLC 109. Employers do not have a legal obligation to inform the authorities about how they are licencing their staff and I am therefore unable to provide you with any figures regarding the number of dismissals that would have taken place through video conferencing. Nor is it possible to know the impact of the covid-19 crisis on this practice. Nevertheless, I inform you that this type of practice will be treated by case law as a leave notified by oral means, by SMS or e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u58	I think, however, that there is, in this case, a human aspect and a psychological impact. To do so is, in my view, a total lack of respect and empathy. Following a dismissal by video conferencing, the worker finds himself alone in the face of the psychological impact: a shock. In the current context of the crisis and confinement, he is separated from any social contact to provide him with any comfort from his colleagues or family. The isolation caused by the crisis combined with this impersonal and unsupervised form of dismissal can also lead to dramatic and psychological consequences for the worker. I hear your answers well and I also hear that you intend to remain attentive to these types of practices and that they will be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 55011332C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u60	Minister, recent evidence has emerged that false corona attestations are being offered. Depending on the need, a negative or positive corona test is sold, for example for someone who still wants to leave uninhibited or someone who does not want to work. Among other things, crooks use the layout of certificates from certain laboratories and names of doctors or fake names to make the certificates look as real as possible. The fact is that official certificates are not always easily distinguishable from counterfeit copies. One should actually double check by calling the laboratory or the general practitioner mentioned on the document to check whether the owner of the certificate has actually been tested or not. Minister, how will you act or have you acted against false corona attestations? In the media there are false corona attestations, but it is not quite clear whether this is only about the quarantine attestations issued by the general practitioner when one may be infected and unable to work, or whether it is also about the certificates issued in the event of a closure due to corona, on the basis of which a temporary unemployment benefit can be received at the closure of a school or reception facility? Have you been aware of the number of temporary unemployment benefits unduly paid as a result of the false certificates? How many of these were recovered? How many forged certificates have been traced? Will there be any checks? If so, how will they be organised? What measures had the government taken to prevent forgery of such certificates? Will the certificates now take a different form and be extra protected, for example by a QR code?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u61	Mr Anseeeuw, the RVA has so far no knowledge of the systematic abuse of corona attestations in order to receive unlawful temporary unemployment benefits and has not yet received any complaints. However, the RVA is always attentive to the use of false documents. During a temporary unemployment check, all useful documents will always be requested and examined thoroughly. This is also the case when a benefit is claimed for a temporary unemployed person who has a corona certificate. Finally, the RVA also states that corona attestations had to be submitted to the RVA only for a limited period of time and for a limited number of companies which were not recognised as exceptionally hard hit undertakings or which were not in an exceptionally hard hit sector. In addition, several verifications were carried out. For example, it was checked whether it was indeed a corona certificate or a certificate of incapacity for work and whether it was a maximum period of 15 days. In all other cases, the certificates must be kept by the employer and the RVA will request them at the post-checks on the files. The other questions do not fall within my competence, but those of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u62	So you have no knowledge of possible abuses. The RVA has no knowledge of this either, although there is evidence of that. The Corona aid measures are already particularly prone to fraud. Abuse is reprehensible and must be dealt with. Even the proactive suggestion to give the certificates a slightly different form which makes them more difficult to falsify does not include you: you replicate that it is not your competence. This is, of course, a problem, especially if there are clear indications of abuse in the context of, among other things, temporary unemployment, for which you do have competence. As Minister of Work, you must not get rid of it with the answer that half of the questions do not refer to your competence. It is ultimately about matters relating to temporary unemployment. I had hoped and expected that you would do everything in your power and take proactive action, even if it was in cooperation with the other ministers, to avoid possible abuse, even if no abuse has been detected in the past. I take it from your answer that there is no check on that. That concerns me a great deal. I will go further on this and I will ask a number of written questions to get to the bottom of the matter. Aid measures are particularly sensitive to fraud and abuse needs to be addressed. Your answer shows that, if it were not your competence, when it comes to unemployment benefits, you would be abusing yourself. I find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u63	I refer to the written version of my question to hear directly the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u64	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Cornet. The various departments of the administration, both federal and regional, examine all the legal possibilities which are likely to ensure that an active employer in Belgium fully and adequately subscribes to the legislation in force in our country. As you know, I am very attentive to the effective application of the rules, but also to their efficiency. In any event, the evaluation of these measures remains a necessary prerequisite. In this particularly sensitive area, the social partners and the different levels of power will of course be involved – at their level and according to their respective competences – in this work of evaluation and reflection. However, it seems to me that we must no longer hesitate to make public aid conditional on compliance with social and environmental standards. As regards the Renault procedure itself, on 23 November 2020 Ryanair notified the planned collective redundancies to Forem and VDAB. A copy of this notification must also be communicated to the SPF Emploi, to the trade union delegation and to workers by posting within the company. From the date of this posting, the union delegation had 30 days to raise a collective challenge. A complaint has been filed and the case is under investigation for the time being. If the collective challenge is found to be well founded, the workers concerned may individually challenge their dismissal and seek redress before the labour courts if necessary. Moreover, a period of 30 days has begun after these notifications: as you know, this is a waiting period, during which the employer cannot yet proceed with dismissals. The Director of the Sub-regional Employment Service may reduce this time limit or extend it to a maximum of 60 days after notification. Forem, for its part, used this ability and doubled the delay. This is the state of play of this particularly difficult case concerning the company and the airline Ryanair, as well as its various developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You are particularly responding to the Renault procedural aspect, but you have not developed much the announcement you made in the media about a recovery of the aid that would be made with Ryanair. You say that we can consider making public aid conditional on social or environmental standards. This is obviously a project that I invite you to undertake. We will be your partners to reflect on this dimension. What was of interest to me in this question was to know what means you had envisaged to make these refunds. How are you going to consider the balance between repayments, the fact that there is temporary unemployment covid, and the maintenance of employment? What businesses and practices would be targeted? You don't really answer those questions. Maybe you'll come back later. If you have any other elements, I am obviously completely picky. Indeed, conditioning public aid is an excellent thing and recovering it when companies engage in obvious abuses, as is the case with Ryanair, is also a very good thing. These are two different things, which I encourage you to dig. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u66	Minister, let me first wish you the best for 2021! As you know, the difficulties for self-employed and self-employed people remain extremely important: a range of sectors remain closed for health reasons. On the other hand, although non-essential businesses reopened on 1 December last year, they continue to face great difficulties. In this regard, I wanted to take stock with you. Many measures have already been taken by the government (appropriation carry-overs, bridge law or economic unemployment). Different ministers are competent in this area and the situation is taking place at different levels of power. Nothing in these files is simple. And you have to constantly type on nails, be proactive and, sometimes, discuss with sectors that do not provide any effort. I'm thinking about the banking sector or the insurance sector. With regard to non-essential businesses, what mechanisms can they still use and under what conditions? I am thinking of economic unemployment, or even the postponement of certain burdens they still have to face, such as bank loans or insurance premiums, which remain heavy burdens for the self-employed at a time when activity is not possible or very small. Can you take stock of the carry-over of bank loans and insurance premiums for those who are unable to return to work at this time? I know that the file is not simple and that we really need to be able to invest all the will and energy we can to discuss with these actors. But you also have to get back on the ground, where dramas are sometimes played in relation to payments of a few thousand euros that will tip an independent towards the end of activity and therefore, the precariousness, what we all want to avoid. A few thousand euros can switch an independent, an independent, towards the end of activity and thus towards precariousness. This is of course what we all want and avoid. Can you take stock of these elements, which we consider to be particularly important?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u67	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your question. I wish you all the best. As you know, we have taken many steps. I am thinking in particular of the temporary unemployment force majeure corona for workers, the increase in temporary unemployment up to 70% and the supplementary premium of 5.63 euros paid by the ONEM for those workers who benefit from temporary unemployment corona. I am also thinking of the bridge right for the independents, a bridge right that has been reviewed, as you know, with a transitional regime for those sectors that were closed before 1 January and that remain closed after 1 January. These measures were extended until 31 March 2021 for the most part. As you know, on my proposal, at the level of the government, we have decided to grant temporary unemployment to all workers, regardless of the sector in which they work, first of all in order to avoid discrimination between the various sectors, given the scale of this crisis and its general and cross-cutting impacts across different sectors and companies. But also, and this joins the debate that we had at the beginning of the committee, to allow for simplification and acceleration in the processing of cases. This temporary Corona unemployment has been extended until 31 March this year, in any case until now, to all workers in all sectors. Workers in non-essential businesses will therefore be able to benefit from this until 31 March 2021, in any case it is the decision that has been taken so far. But of course, depending on the changing health situation and its social and economic consequences, this decision could be reviewed. I agree with you that we will not be able to abandon all these measures overnight. Depending on the development of the situation, depending on the impact of the crisis on the different sectors, or even within the different sectors, on certain subsectors or even on certain enterprises, support measures will have to be extended, or possibly reorientated, and adapted to the particular situation of these firms and independents in different sectors. Progressive adjustments will have to be made to avoid creating a shock and ultimately losing the benefits of the aid schemes that the various governments have put in place so far. As far as insurance and credit measures are concerned, as you know, a number of decisions have been taken, in consultation with the sectors and also with my colleagues the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Independents and Middle Classes, including the postponement of the repayment of real estate loans, the postponement of the payment of outstanding balance and fire insurance premiums related to these real estate loans and the suspension of certain professional liability insurance. We worked with Assuralia, the insurance industry, to extend the measures taken during the first wave and even extend some of them in relation to what had been put in place at the time. We are currently working with the insurance sector on more appropriate solutions for the self-employed, both in their implementation and in their communication. We know that we are faced with a public that does not always have complete information. As a result of the aid and the decisions taken in this context with the various sectors – I am thinking in particular of the banking and insurance sectors – it appears that it is really necessary to communicate specifically to these independents and those sectors the benefit of these measures and aid. It is necessary to ensure that these independents and sectors can activate them as quickly as possible and as easily as possible. With regard to the extension of more specific aid or additional aid to certain sectors or companies, there is currently a process of consultation at government level to assess the measures that have been adopted so far and to consider a new package of measures, possibly with more specific measures depending on the realities and difficulties faced by the sectors affected by the crisis, with particular attention for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u68	Mr Minister, you have responded broadly and I thank you for that. We agree with you that it will certainly be necessary to extend some of the measures and to target them by sector – we know that one sector is not the other – as the rules that we all hope will be relaxed with an end to this health crisis. From the feedback we have, today we have two major problems. First of all, this concerns insurance and banking institutions, i.e. the payment of insurance premiums and bank loans. As you said, some solutions are being taken but, still today, the first distress of the independents who contact us online or via social networks relates specifically to these charges. You said that solutions exist for economic unemployment, etc. This is the main point of attention for us at this stage. Minister, the second point does not concern you directly. This is the payment of the bridge fee on which I will be questioning your colleague, the minister in charge of the Independents, next week. Some independents who have contacted me say they haven't received their bridge rights in a few months, while their files are well completed. This is a real problem that can put people in very precarious situations. I will not fail to question Minister David Clarinval, who is directly responsible for this matter. However, I wanted to focus, in my reply, on the current priorities and also highlight the measures that are being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u69	Colleagues, the next item on the agenda is the joint questions of the PTB Group which, I believe, were answered at the beginning of the sitting. If the PTB agrees, then I propose to move on to the following questions. Question No 55011563C by Mrs Ellen Samyn is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u70	Madam President, Minister, I have been going around with this question for some time and I hope you will answer it today. I filed them at the beginning of October. I thought the matter was social affairs, but was referred to health. At first I did not get an answer, and then your colleague referred me to you. I hope I've come to the right place. My question concerns the hospital staff. If those people work in a department where COVID-19 breaks out, they have to be quarantined, they can't do anything about it themselves. The problem with this is that they are losing their wages. They may be able to take leave or overtime, but not everyone has been given that. Another option is temporary unemployment, but they have to pay significantly. Are you aware of this problem? Are there solutions to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u71	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your question. If the worker, in this case the hospital staff, is fit for work but cannot carry out his work as a result of the fact that he is to be quarantined, paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the Law of 3 July 1978 on contracts of employment shall suspend the performance of the contract of employment on grounds of temporary force majeure. The employee may then fall back on the scheme of temporary unemployment on grounds of force majeure and is, in principle, entitled to benefits because of the RVA. Until 31 March 2021, the worker in temporary unemployment on grounds of force majeure shall be entitled to benefits equal to 70% of the average capped wage, irrespective of his family condition. On top of that comes a supplement of 5.63 uro per day. The employee can also always agree with his employer another solution such as taking holidays, catching up for overtime or days off work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for taking this issue to heart. You refer to what I said in the question, that can be taken on leave or overtime, which, however, is not a solution for everyone. You say that it is especially important to apply for unemployment benefit. I understood that they would fall back to 60 %, but you say that it is 70 % plus another supplement. You also refer to the employer, if he wishes to do more or if he wishes to develop another scheme. It is a pity, however, that, in these exceptional circumstances, wages cannot remain fully paid. Thank you for taking the matter to heart and answering the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u73	Madam President, Minister, research by the Independent Hospital Funds shows that between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018, 15,000 of their members became disabled due to depression or burn-out. This is one in four of the total number of disabled persons. In 2019, the RIZIV reported 426.607 people in disability, around 5% of the population aged 15-64. At the end of 2014, 343.926 people were still involved. This is an increase of 24% in four years. Slightly more 66,000 cases were due to depression and just over 25,000 in burn-out. Labour economist Stijn Baert stresses the importance of smooth reintegration at work. This is essential in the treatment of mental well-being problems. According to Professor Baert, reintegration is best started as soon as possible. Moreover, recent research by Professor Baert shows that employers discriminate against both previous depression and burn-out. In a reaction in De Morgen, you stated that you want to come up with an anti-burn-out plan for this legislature. That has, of course, aroused my attention. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what policy conclusions do you draw from the above figures? Secondly, when will the anti-burn-out plan come and what exactly will it involve? Thirdly, what measures are you already taking to ensure that the number of burn-outs does not increase further as a result of the current corona crisis? Fourthly, do you recognise the problem of discrimination by employers of people who have had depression or burn-out before? Finally, what role do you see for posting to other employers as a possible tool to counter burn-out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u74	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, the figures you are quoting are well known and they are very harsh. As many as two thirds of all cases of disability and disability are linked to mental and musculoskeletal disorders. I will, together with my administration, step up efforts to address this social challenge. We want to reduce psychosocial risks at work and intensify the reintegration of workers. An interdepartmental working group bringing together all the expertise in the administration works on prevention, risk detection, recovery and reintegration. The working party has the full support of the Minister for Social Affairs and myself. A plan on well-being at work is being prepared to roll it out in 2021. This will also involve consultation with the social partners and organisations for the prevention of psychosocial risks at work. However, we do not start from scratch. The Welfare Act and its implementing legislation provide a comprehensive framework for companies to ensure the physical and mental health of their employees. The law is good, but an adaptation is not excluded. I will first look carefully at the results of the research carried out by the DiOVA in 2020 on its impact and the opinions of the National Labour Council and the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. The FPS Work organises various awareness campaigns each year and brings together prevention advisors and trusted persons for the exchange of good practices. They help actors in the field to transpose legislation into action. For this there are also several practical online tools that we will promote more. Since 2018, companies and sectors have also been able to apply to the National Labour Council for a grant for a pilot project for the prevention of burn-out. The discrimination against employers against people who have previously had depression or burn-out, or any other health problem, is unacceptable. For that, the Equal Opportunities Cell of the FPS Justice and Unia are competent. Your last question concerned the posting to avoid burn-out. It is striking that a large proportion of people who start a reintegration project after a burn-out start work with another employer. Often the change of job is asked by those involved. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that behind these cases there may be a general problem. We need to analyse this further and coordinate prevention in order to avoid repeating the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u75	Thank you very much, Minister, for pointing out that you do attach great importance to a good approach to this problem. It's about a lot of people who become inactive temporarily, but sometimes also for a very long time. It is wrong, in more than one way, if they are also discriminated against. Firstly, it is more difficult to regain an active role in our society in the labour market. At the same time, it can also ensure that people wait longer than is good for them to seek help with mental problems of any kind. There are plenty of reasons for doing this in a good and thorough way. I understand you're still waiting for results from the investigation. However, I would like to call on you to see whether there are no quick wins or measures that can be taken, especially since, in the context of the corona crisis, a number of things have come up more painful than ever before in this area. Hopefully, the results of the study will not be long before you tackle the structural problem with the burn-out plan. Above all, the results should not be an excuse not to do in the short term what may already happen without much research being needed. This problem concerns a great many people and our entire society, and can only make people's health problems about whom it is about worse because they are longer deprived of necessary help.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u76	Mrs Moscufo, thank you for your question. The Colruyt Group participates in the social dialogue through various internal bodies, which have, moreover, been renewed following the social elections. The points you raise are, in particular, within the competence of the works council. Like you, I have no doubt that the workers' representatives will also be very attentive to the subject of your questions. It is not for me to replace trade union organisations. So let the questions be asked by whom and where they should be asked. In any case, you will not be surprised to learn that I will be particularly vigilant about the answers that will be given. Sectoral consultation within the Joint Committees also plays an essential role in preventing any competitive distortion and maintaining a level playing field for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u77	Minister, thank you. You are entirely right to point out that these issues must be dealt with as a matter of priority in the context of social dialogue. He was not at all in my intention to take this prerogative away from those concerned. That said, there is a business that has earned more than a quarter of a billion profits in a few months during the co-vid period. It is up to us from the unions that, during the social concertation, they are absolutely not in front of a conciliatory employers' organization. On the contrary, it firmly defends its interests. At the political level, and without seeking to replace the work of the trade unions, should there not be any benchmarks? We know that this same group has launched small delivery services, following the model of Deliveroo, thus discriminating between these workers and those of Colruyt. As our response to your answer is mixed, we will come back to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic327x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Anseeeuw's 55011659C is converted into a written question.
