ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u3	I apologise to all my colleagues and thank you, Madam President, for waiting. I wish you a lot of courage when you want to go home, because the traffic is all stuck in Brussels. I'm a reporter of this bill. It has been discussed in two parts. Two or three weeks ago, it was also scheduled to be discussed in plenary, but then the Council of State's opinion was requested on an amendment. For the first part, therefore, I refer to my written report. Following the amendment on which an opinion was given, a new amendment was tabled by the majority, with an adjustment being made and on which we held a committee meeting earlier. I will briefly report on this. The majority has added an amendment deleting the originally planned Article 120. The article concerned the entry in the legislation that it was again possible to include interned persons in prisons. That part has therefore been deleted from the majority's view, which, of course, was also supported by the opposition. There were also amendments in this sense of cdH and PVDA, which were withdrawn. Article 131 was replaced, the choice of words was changed so that the prison director cannot be held individually liable. The amendment was also accepted on that point, it was adopted unanimously just now in the Committee on Justice. In the end, the draft law was voted on. The majority of course voted in favour, Flemish Interest voted against and the N-VA abstained. For the rest, there was a abstention from PVDA, I think. So much for my report. Let me now turn to my speech. Minister, according to his title, the Justice Bill wants to make it more human, faster and more criminal. I heard it abbreviated in committee as the "MSS draft," which I think is a dangerous abbreviation given the risk of these consonants being mixed up. The cdH tabled an amendment to change the title and withdrew it earlier. You have actually given your design the name of your PR slogan, namely to make Justice more human, faster and more punitive, while this is a typical law several provisions. Most articles are also about technical changes and linguistic improvements. I've been in this House for a while, but this is the first time I've seen this. Mr. Geens went for potpourri laws, you are now going for an MSS1 and perhaps another MSS2. I'm having a really hard time with those consonants. That doesn't ring a bell. It is a pity that the CDH has withdrawn the amendment to that effect, just to give it a normal title. It is not appropriate to make your slogan the title of a law, especially if the title does not always cover the load of all provisions or that provisions do not always cover the load of this title. A number of provisions were an example of this, such as the provision on internment, but a sleeve is appropriate to the latter with moving insight. However, there are still a few. We've been convicted of receiving internees in prisons. Unfortunately, this is still happening here because of lack of space. At first, it was the intention of this majority to allow that to happen again and to register in the law. That problem would soon be institutionalized again. Of course, that wasn't okay. In committee, Ecolo even left to not have to vote on that part. It is good that the opposition has tabled an amendment and that the opinion of the Council of State has been asked to give you all some time to think about it. Today, then, the new amendment was withdrawn. That aspect has already been resolved legally. Of course, that does not solve the problem. It is not because you no longer register that interned persons may be taken into prison, that the interned persons will no longer go to prison for lack of space. In substance, the problem has not yet been solved. How this law in this area makes the situation more human is only the question. I welcome the other improvement on individual responsibility of the prison directors, which is no longer immediately possible in criminal matters. I'm happy with that adjustment. It is a pity, however, that the Council of State had to be consulted in order to make that improvement. My second point, Minister. Good thing about this law is that you include a provision, a new punishment, in particular the port ban on drug offences. That's good. It's been asked for a while. It is an important sanction, but it is also a security measure. The question of who had been convicted of drugs has long been raised in the port, not having to give access to the port. That principle has our support, that is good. However, there remain practical questions that we have debated in committee, especially as regards enforcement. Not all the comments and questions were answered by you, there have been a few sticking out as far as I am concerned. I would like to stress that enforcement is crucial, otherwise the port ban will remain a dead letter. It is important that every relevant body be informed, which is not possible today. [[The prosecutor may not disclose to anyone or distribute information on the matter.]] Of course it is important that every player in the port knows this or that this can be entered in the access badges, including to others. The port staff is known, but there are also a lot of coincidental passers-by there. A whole information chain and flow will be needed to make this possible. There is nothing you can do about it, but you are facing the problem that the port is not a closed area, but an open area. In terms of enforcement, there are still practical problems to overcome, but it is certainly a step forward that the port ban is included in the drug law. I would also like to talk briefly about CAP. Access to the CAP is extended by the draft law. The criminal prosecution magistrate and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the peace court and the company court, are given access to it. In some areas this can be justified, for example by the Public Prosecutor's Office or by the Criminal Prosecutor's Office, although a number of practical questions still remain. However, giving access to the CAP to the peace court in the framework of a provisional regime or to the corporate court, I find improper use of the CAP. The GBA also made very explicit reservations about this and said that the information is improperly used, especially in the context of a regime. According to the GBA, the information is thus averted from its purpose. That is the problem with the CAP: we are putting more and more information into it and more and more authorities are getting access to it. The question that also asked the GBA is whether all this is proportionate and necessary and which agenda will be served at the end of the journey. I do not doubt that this can be justified in certain areas, but there are also risks involved. You have decided not to follow the advice of the GBA, but the concerns that arise about access to it are certainly not gone. Finally, you know that the law on external legal status (WERP) is very close to my heart, Minister. You won't be surprised if I come back to that. I would like to highlight two aspects of this. Firstly, in the MSS draft, you adjust the minimum test time from two to one year, contrary to the advice of the Attorney General. I would like to read out this opinion: 'The draft law does not make it statistically and scientifically clear that the cause of those convicted of crimes is in the too long minimum trial period or has other causes, such as the fact that certain convicted persons, such as sexual offenders, do not want to be investigated or dealt with for their problems. It is in the interests of society that those convicted of their release into society should be adequately supervised for a sufficiently long period and a decision to halve the minimum trial period for long-term punishments should be made on an informed basis and based on evidence-based grounds." The Attorney General is asking for that minimum trial time not to be reduced to a year, but to be graduated. They also make a proposal. Especially for the punishments over three years old, they ask not to do so. Keep that minimum test time. You put that advice next to you. I repeat that our group does not agree, Minister. It is also a fundamental change. I believe that this deserves a thorough debate, which we must also have in the context of the usefulness of the punishment and where it is intended to go. We have talked about this many times in committee. You know that our group is in favour of the posting, even after the end of the sentence. The opponents have always said that this is not necessary, because there is the probationary period. After the end of the sentence, the probationary period will keep an eye on you. If we now shorten the probationary period and abolish the posting, as originally stipulated in the new Criminal Code, then we will lose every stick behind the door. We cannot agree with that. Of two cases one, Minister. I think it's important to give that to you. I find it particularly regrettable that you are still pushing it against the wishes of the Attorney General. I know what you will say later that this was discussed with the Communities and everyone agreed. You said that last time. I've been in touch again. I have asked my colleagues to be a little more attentive in the future or to have it recorded in the report. They are very formal in that. I repeat once again, also for the report, that they have certainly expressed their concern about this. It is only right that we should express our position here. We cannot agree to this. We are following the advice of the Attorney General on this matter. In amendment, you added something, not insignificant, in particular the postponement of the entry into force of the implementation of the short sentences. That would enter into force on 1 December next week. You want to postpone this until 1 June 2022. We have talked about this many times, Minister. I remind you of the expensive oath you took before the summer. You said that it would be postponed one more time, but that would certainly be the last time. That was the tenth time. So today is the eleventh time. On 1 December, it would finally be this far, something in which no minister has succeeded in the past few decades. That's right. This legislation is already 15 to 16 years old. It was finally gonna be this far. We fully support that ambition, Minister. Any punishment, including the short sentences, must be carried out. In order to achieve this, additional capacity and a roadmap are needed in the first instance. As it turns out, there is still not enough on the table. You would open a detention house before the end of the year, where 20 to 60 prisoners could be taken care of. If you can do that, because the support base in Kortrijk does not appear to be as big as you had hoped. Maybe that's gonna be okay. I certainly hope so. We track that in the media. However, 20 to 60 places in one detention house do not solve the need for additional places. Former Minister None had already calculated that for you. It took about 400 places, of course step by step, and your head of the cabinet said you're actually looking for 720. Those detention homes will not solve that, because that will not get you there yet. Moreover, Corona's execution has been considerably delayed. That's a fact. There's been a lot of interruptions. Our prisons are already overcrowded today. That is also a problem that I have repeatedly questioned you about. You often repeat almost accusing me that I do not want you to succeed and that you will succeed and that you will deliver on the promises and provide additional capacity. You said I didn't have to worry about you doing that job until that particular Monday night, when Belga almost told me that it would be postponed, which was evident from the amendment that was tabled here. The excuse at that time, and then I'm talking about more than two weeks ago, was the corona crisis. The figures are of course what they are today, but that is true throughout society and not only in prisons. I have already said that there are places where the doors are locked, but here they do not even open to the prisoners. A number of elements play a role. There will also be penitentiary staff, as is the case in the rest of society. We shouldn't waste any time on that. It's not an obvious task, not anywhere today. Every sector is on its gums in that respect, so I will not be faint about that, but I think that this is the reason why we should use it as an excuse to say that we can only postpone it. After all, there was already an overpopulation, there is no plan for additional capacity and that one detention house will not solve it either. There was already a huge staff shortage among the penitentiary officers. In fact, they recently put the work back in Antwerp and referred to it and said that the minister had already promised that staff for a long time, but that it will not be there. Minister, I do not think it is correct that you are just hiding behind the corona crisis, because your back-up plan was, frankly, not there either. You didn't have a plan B. This leads us, since the majority will approve it today, to postpone its entry into force for the eleventh time. On the ground, this de facto gives rise to a degree of impunity for the short sentences. The execution of short sentences is now virtually nil. Short sentences are converted into an alternative sentence, if it comes to that. In a few weeks, a short sentence may be converted into a house arrest with an anklet, if it comes to that. The period is far too short to start a probation or guidance. I don't think anyone's gonna benefit. In your policy paper, you talk about lick-on-piece fines. Well, a short sentence that is effectively implemented is similar, because it sends out the message that the offences committed are incorrect and that the offender is called upon to do so. A short sentence may be a work sentence, but it does not necessarily always have to be a prison sentence for me, but it must be played briefly on the ball. By the new postponement, you will once again create a period of a certain impunity. We very much regret that. That is why the N-VA will not approve your bill, although it contains some good elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u4	Madam reporter, thank you very much for your report. Minister, the title of this bill is promising and hopeful, namely to make the justice system more humane, faster and more punishing. From the title, I thought I could conclude that this draft would provide the legal basis for the three different pillars on which your policy statement has been supported and of which our group could, and still can, support the vast majority. But the flag doesn't cover the cargo. Only a small minority of the articles in this draft will make justice more human, faster and more criminal. And then to a rather limited extent. I must say, Minister, I am not alone in saying this. The Order of Flemish Bar is also clear. I quote: "Various laws and provisions on justice are being discussed, but the content is not such that they will realize the title of the bill." And further: "A title that creates high expectations. Unfortunately, the text itself is less revolutionary. At least that's as clear as it gets. During the discussion in committee, we had the opportunity to look at the substance of everything. I won't repeat everything. There were a number of points on which our group can fully agree. But again, with this law you will certainly not make the justice system more human, faster and more punishing. We can approve the vast majority of the various articles within this draft law. However, you must admit, Minister, that this is de facto a potpourri law. There are 24 chapters which make a slight change to existing legislation here and there. They are, moreover, mainly technical provisions, without any form of coherence. It is only in five chapters that we can see, as you have said in your explanatory statement, that a change is being made in order to make it more human, faster and more criminal, and then to a very limited extent. I must say, Minister, that I believe that the citizens expect something different from a bill with this fine title. In any case, I hope that you will soon be more ambitious in order to achieve your objective. I would like to raise a few points of concern here or to get an answer to my question for clarification. Firstly, Minister, the port ban is part of your ambition to make the justice system more criminal. We support you in that. The ban can be imposed as an autonomous punishment for anyone who comes or works in port, even for employers. Mr. Secretary, that sentence is imposed on you for all drug offences regardless of where they were committed. Nevertheless, I have a few questions. In the explanatory memorandum, I read the following. I quote: "The registration of the port ban as an autonomous, additional penalty in Article 4 of the Drug Act means that the penalty can only be imposed for proven drug-related offences. The port ban cannot be imposed if the court re-qualifies the facts to, for example, mere gang formation or theft. Minister, I regret that you did not consider entering that autonomous sentence into the Criminal Code rather than into the drug law. As you yourself say, I can perfectly think of an example in which, as a result of the requalification, certain persons are condemned not for drug offences but for other facts, although it would be useful and perhaps even necessary to impose a port ban. In this context, I continue to ask whether the incorporation of the autonomous sentence in the Criminal Code does not meet this requirement. In any case, I hope that you will do so in the future. I even insist on that. Another question is enforcement. How will she happen? We all know that the port of Antwerp is a very vast and unfinished area. Which authorities are empowered to check the application? Today we are still faced with the crucial problem that the port of Antwerp falls into two judicial districts and that the extension of the powers of the prosecutors concerned has limited operational added value. Therefore, Minister, I was very pleased to hear in your policy paper that from 1 January 2023 the port files will end up in one public prosecutor's office and one court, Antwerp. That is a very positive thing. I also hope that you will manage to make all the necessary preparations in 2022, so that this can be effective on 1 January 2023. I would like to repeat my question yesterday, namely whether you will pay sufficient attention to the granting of more resources and support to the Antwerp court, because that will be absolutely necessary. Another question in this context is how this will be communicated to the employer. This is very important, as the employer can also be sanctioned in the event of non-compliance. What about people who get a port ban but are only sporadically present in the port? These are all questions that still have to be resolved if we are to ensure that this does not remain a dead letter. A temporary port ban is, of course, one step in the fight against organised drug trafficking, and an at least equal step is, of course, the scanning of all containers. Of course, that is not your competence, but I would ask you to take your colleague on board. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this area, because the latest figures I received from Minister Van Peteghem show that only 2.4 percent of the total is scanned. That is absolutely not enough. Another bottleneck is in Chapter 8, entitled "Amendments to the Judicial Code'. This is the so-called update of Article 759, an article which, as the draft itself says, contains a rule of courtesy and respect. The removal of headgear may be a rule that originated in the 19th century, but today it is still polite and respectful to take off the hat from entering the courtroom. That principle is being abolished. From now on, it will be the magistrate who has to judge. During the committee's discussion, I asked you what the need for this change was. You referred to a judgment of the European Court of Justice. Allow me to say this doesn't really convince me. Other judgments are also not complied with, from the numerous examples I refer to the various cases in which our country is condemned as regards the situation of the interns. How will the judge have to judge that? I fear that in the field there will be a major discrepancy between magistrates who want to continue to follow the current regime, a regime that has gone well for decades, and other magistrates who will do everything in their power. Our group is not in favour of amending that article, as I said. We are in favour of absolute neutrality in the government and, of course, in the court. Every citizen can profess the faith of his or her choice, that principle is not in question. However, faith is a private matter and does not belong in court. We shouldn't patronize. Everyone knows what it's about. You referred to the judgment, by the way. The headscarf at Moslima is the symbol of women's oppression, the symbol of inequality that prevents any integration into or acceptance of our Western society. It is unacceptable that the headscarf should now be officially introduced into a courtroom. Nor do I understand why, as a liberal minister, when it comes to the headscarf, you take up the defence of a distinct religious symbol. Article 23 of the Civil Code also introduces an amendment, in particular the reintroduction of fines in the event of abuse of the objection procedure in criminal matters. That possibility existed until the Act of 26 April 2007 and was apparently unintentionally lifted. On the one hand, I understand your concern, but on the other hand, we must not forget that objection must remain a right to obtain the replacement of a magistrate who is feared that he or she does not seem to be able to settle the dispute with the necessary independence and impartiality. In the event of possible abuses of the objection procedure, the court itself must act decisively. In this respect, therefore, a decision can be taken anything but lightly. Who's gonna judge that abuse? What criteria will be applied? Is there going to be a strict interpretation or is a broad interpretation possible? I would also like to warn against other dangers that may be associated with this. There is a risk that colleagues of the defendant judge will soon see this as alleged abuse of collegiality. Prior to that decision on the substance, I believe that an in-depth analysis was better made. Chapter 10 deals with the amendments to the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions. The amendments on aid to victims of intentional acts of violence are positive, because of course they make justice more human. There will be the possibility, not the obligation, of allowing the session to take place via videoconference and the maximum amount for emergency aid to be increased to EUR 125 000. We can therefore support it. It is a good thing that the formalities for the application to be completed by lawyers have been simplified quite recently, on the initiative of the committee itself. From your explanatory statement to the policy paper, I understand that you want to simplify the procedure in order to reduce the lead time. But with the announcement of an additional Dutch-speaking room you will not get there. You need to make more efforts. Our group has already prepared a legislative proposal. Maybe that'll help. Chapter 12 deals with the entanglement of the Gambling Act. The exploitation of bets by pseudodagblandhandels and night shops will no longer be possible. We support that. What are the criteria for talking about pseudo-day newspapers and night shops? Who's gonna judge that? What is the procedure to be followed? What are the remedies? I asked you these questions in committee, but I did not receive an answer. I hope you will answer today. This is only a first step. Even though we are pleased that you will consider the issue in your policy paper and work on a tightening up next year, only a genuinely thorough reform of the gambling law will help to make justice more criminal. I hope you will come up with texts quickly and we will have the opportunity to discuss them in detail in committee. Chapter 15 deals with the external dominant position of the convicted person, to which Mr De Wit has already referred. Our group cannot support the amendments concerning the minimum test time. I am particularly concerned about this. A change in the minimum trial time does not belong in a potpourri law, but basically requires a thorough debate on the execution of the sentence. You reduce the minimum test time from 2 to 1 year. That is a totally wrong signal to the population. We are therefore not in favour of the reduction and are not alone in this. Your argument that more convicts go to the end of the sentence, which means they leave prison without being succeeded, is not an argument to reduce the minimum trial time to 1 year for all prison sentences. It is not only our group that is critical of this. The College of Attorneys General is particularly clear in its detailed reasoned opinion. I'd like to join in on this. The College believes that for three years' imprisonment and less the minimum trial time of 2 years is indeed too long and that for those convicted a minimum trial time of 1 year is sufficient. We can agree to that. According to the college, this time is useful enough to start with guidance and follow-up. For custodial sentences of more than 2 years, the current minimum trial time, 2 years, must be maintained. In other words, the intermediate category between custodial sentences of 3 years and custodial sentences of at least 5 years should be maintained. Thus, the College also clearly recommends that the probation period be gradually built up consistently according to the duration of the custodial sentences imposed. The College states that it knows what it is talking about - that such graduation remains absolutely necessary. Mr Minister, it is rightly said that it is not statistically and scientifically hard to say that the cause of those who are convicted of crimes is in the too long minimum trial period. It may also have other causes. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that some sexual offenders, for example, do not want to be investigated and treated for their problems. It is in the interests of society that those convicted of their release into society should be adequately supervised for a sufficiently long period of time. A decision to halve the minimum trial time for long-term punishment should be considered and based on evidence-based reasons, not quickly in a law with a number of general provisions. Mrs De Wit repeats her statement in committee that the N-VA does not agree with the relevant provisions, but I would like to point out that the N-VA was able to prevent this from happening in committee by keeping its leg firmly. That party didn't do that. The fact that we in the Federal Parliament rightly do not agree with the amendments here, but take another view at levels of competence where we do have the say, is hypocritical. You may pass that message on to Prime Minister Jambon. By the way, who is right and I am addressing the Minister and colleague De Wit? Mr De Wit, you say you consulted Minister Demir. Mr Minister, you stated in committee that I quote from the clear report -: "No Community has opposed this arrangement, or any other: "The Minister of Justice stresses that the present amendment was explicitly requested by the three Communities in March 2021. The text was discussed and amended during the consultation. An agreement was reached at the Inter-Ministerial Conference between the Federal Government and the three Communities. Who's right here, the minister or the N-VA? If the Minister says he is right, then I can only regret that the N-VA, which has the key to countering the change in law, is not acting consistently where it can. I hope to be more clear in a moment. Mr Minister, you originally provided for a change in Chapter 18 on internment. During the discussion in committee, I told you that our group is having a very difficult time with this. We are not alone with that, by the way. The Council of State's legal analysis was particularly clear and unequivocal against the proposal. The Order of Flemish Baries and Avocats.be were also particularly keen in their criticism: although the real impact of this design on the efficiency of justice can be discussed, the chapter on internment makes a case clear: at least it doesn't become more human. Fortunately, Minister, there is such a thing as moving insight. At the last minute, an amendment adopted in committee removed that part from the text. We have also supported this, but the deletion of the chapter does not solve the problem in substance. Quite recently, the Court of Justice of the European Union has clearly emphasised that psychiatric departments are still suffering from the known systemic problems: a functioning and a logic of care based on prison thinking, a serious lack of medical and social education staff, insufficient monitoring staff and staff without specialised training. As long as these problems are not fully resolved, further convictions will remain our fate. The situation of interns in prisons requires an immediate approach. Our group therefore calls for the problem to be resolved on the ground and for the necessary places to be provided, for an adequate framework for interned persons with adequate infrastructure and qualified staff. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendments to Chapter 20 of the Penitentiary Staff Regulations. Our group can endorse the points made in this connection, but the title is actually misleading, because the status of penitentiary staff is not being worked on. I will not dwell on this for long and refer to the discussion yesterday in committee following the discussion of the policy paper. Finally, Minister, if the implementation of the provisions on short prison sentences is postponed to three years, our group will change its voting behaviour, which was initially a abstention. This is not the first or the second postponement, but the twelfth postponement. That is absolutely unacceptable to us. The execution of short prison sentences up to three years from 1 December 2021, that rule is postponed once again to 1 June 2022, accounting for the fourth corona wave. You have been honest, because you do not guarantee that the scheme will be postponed for the last time. After all, you said that this will depend on the corona situation at the time. Our group regrets that. Let's not call each other Liezebet. Corona may complicate the file, but it's not the real reason. The real problem is the lack of space, the lack of sufficient capacity. That's not a new problem. It's been dragging on for years. I acknowledge that you are not the main person responsible for this. That is the responsibility of your many predecessors. The causes are not corona bound, but date long before the crisis. Our prisons have been overcrowded for years. I was able to explain my group's position yesterday in the exchange of views. I'm curious to hear your answer next week. You are indeed announcing new prisons, detention homes and transition homes in your policy paper, but that will not be until tomorrow. The new prisons will open at the end of next year. A detention house in Kortrijk would be opened in December. We have yet to see what will actually come into the house. The transition houses are also not until tomorrow. The shortage of staff is also a very old one. I'm rounding up. Effective implementation of all penalties, including the short prison sentences up to three years, is very important for our society, for the safety of our citizens. You promised. The citizens had hoped to be able to count on your word. It is a core task of justice, but the implementation of this very important task is being postponed once again. Our group cannot approve the text. As Minister of Justice, you have a duty to ensure that all penalties are implemented, without exception. Citizens don't expect anything else. Because of this change, which you pushed through at the last minute, our group will therefore change its voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u5	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my remarks by going over the particular history of this bill. Indeed, in the justification for an amendment which has been tabled here and which has been dealt with in committee, it can be said that "the parliamentary discussions have led to a gradual awareness". I would like to return to that point. We are talking about amendments that have removed or amended very controversial sections of this bill to make justice more humane, faster and firmer. However, these two articles had the peculiarity of being inhumane in the sense that they wanted to put internees in prison. During the discussions in committee, the problem of these two articles was raised and all the necessary justifications, all the convictions of the European Court of Human Rights against Belgium, the whole contestation of the terrain and the prison directors against these two articles were mentioned. However, the minister persisted in maintaining these two articles and the text was voted on in committee. Meanwhile, there has been a surge in civil society to denounce these two articles and to impose them in this bill. I would therefore like to commend all the organisations and associations that have mobilized to express their anger at these two articles. I'd like to take my hat off them because their opposition and mobilization ended up paying for it. Lawyers.be, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking lawyers, the Association of Magistrates' Unions, the Ligue des droits humains, Unia, the International Prison Observatory, the Central Penitentiary Supervision Council, the prison officers themselves and their trade union representatives have protested against these articles, which aimed at imprisoning mentally ill persons. They were right to do so, to persist and to maintain pressure on the majority. In spite of this, when we arrived in plenary, where we also tabled amendments, it was felt that there was no willingness to review these two articles. So we did our opposition work to relay this anger on the ground and we sent these two articles to the Council of State with the amendments. Such a referral, which can sometimes be criticized by the majority and described as fliberous or political, has proved its effectiveness in the course of this bill. Indeed, this referral, which took place two weeks ago, allowed civil society to maintain pressure until it created a doubt among the majority who felt obliged to step back on these two articles. Today, this setback has been achieved by voting on the amendments in committee. I think that's a lesson we need to learn from this experience. I say quite often here – and a minister can confirm it – that we have to listen to what the workers say. They're in the field. They know their work, the conditions under which they do it, and better than anyone else, they know what measures to put in place and what do not correspond to their reality. In view of the need to listen to workers, I can cite another example: the postponement of the application of short sentences. It is positive that this postponement takes place because the situation in our prisons currently does not allow the implementation of this law. Our prisons are overcrowded. Conditions of detention were inhuman and working conditions for prison officers were unbearable. We are talking about a sector in which the rate of patients is quite high. We're talking about an area where officers accumulate 500,000 days of leave that they still have to take. Yet, they continue to be subjected to conditions that are virtually invivable. Both prison directors and trade unions say that this law is inapplicable on the ground. Minister, when we discussed the enforcement of the short sentences, I told you that you were doing something that could not be applied on the ground. I told you to meet the unions and the prison directors: they would have told you that it was impossible to put this law in place. You listened deafly, but a few months later, you made a proposal that confirms what people on the ground are saying, and you have retreated on the application of this law. The lesson to be drawn from this journey, which has come to pass today, is that common sense is on the part of workers and actors on the ground. I hope that this lesson will be learned so that before we propose new legislation, we start by looking at what is happening on the ground and what the needs and demands of the workers are. It is by using this method that we could have a justice that would be really human, really fast and really effective, which is far from the case today. Minister, I hope that in the future you will start with consultation on the ground before you put in place legislation that you will have to come back to because it does not correspond to reality. I will not be longer because much has already been said about this bill. I wanted to go back to these two aspects and highlight the victory that was achieved by civil society and the movement that began to deal with this bill. I welcome their action and would like to tell them to continue to oppose any policy that endangers our prison system and our justice in general. Continue, because mobilization and pressure pay! Mr. Minister, that is why you have moved back today on your articles considered inhumane.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u6	Madam President, I can tell you that I am happy. Mrs De Wit seemed to say, earlier, that everyone in committee was happy - it doesn't happen often and so we can say, about a very important project. The shock was, for us, quite strong when we read the old version of articles 128 and 131. A shock, also an incomprehension, in the face of what seemed to us to be a real camouflage at the European Court of Human Rights, concerning the treatment of internees. It was in the old formula of the bill, no more or less than to legalize illegality, to make legal the inhuman, the confinement of people with mental disorders in prison. Yes, very quickly, we tabled amendments to amend these points. These amendments were rejected for the first time in committee. This was followed by a series of opinions from civil society, opinions against the text from Avocats.be, the International Prison Observatory, the OVB, the Association of Magistrates' Unions and others. There was a second passage in committee. These amendments were again rejected. Once the plenary session came, a little over two weeks ago, we tabled these amendments again and asked for an opinion from the Council of State, supported by other minority parties, which I thank. Some, when sent to the Council of State, speak of dilatory technique or parliamentary fliber. But here, recognize that this period has been used by the majority to reflect on this illegality enshrined in the law. Today, we are co-signatories of two amendments with the majority, and I really welcome the work that has been done together. With these amendments, of course, we are taking a step in the right direction. In spite of this, as the Council of State mentioned in its opinion, fundamental rights are violated by the lack of places available for internments. It is up to you, as you know, Minister, to remedy this. The legal psychiatry centres in Wavre, Alost and Paifve will not be available until 2026. With an increasing number of internments, it is important to work today to find alternative solutions to the placement of the mentally ill in prison. In particular, it had been suggested that hospitals should provide beds for internees. To our knowledge, however, no financial agreement has ever been reached. This could be an interesting way forward. The other part of this project that came out - excuse me the phrase - a little late in committee is the execution of small sentences. Of course, the proposed carry-over can only be validated. He's responding to the demands of the field. In prisons, prison staff were legitimately extremely concerned about the risk of all these people arriving in institutions that were already overcrowded. While you are finally planning to bring into force the execution of short sentences, it is not clear how this could be the case without an even deeper reform of the prison world than is envisaged. There are also 24 chapters of varying importance within this draft, which fall more within the scope of the various provisions than a major legislative change, as the title might suggest. You know that we have had many discussions on this title A more humane, faster and firmer justice. More humane, it was not with the provisions on the confinement of internees. Let's just say that now we can consider it more human. Faster and firmer, I told you, minister - but I agreed to withdraw my amendment on this point - that it was rather a slogan than the realization of these different adjectives. But you have to be good and I will be. I also welcome the positive of this law. I am thinking, for example, of extending the powers of the justice of the peace in order to better support people to protect or increase emergency financial assistance for victims of violence. As you will understand, we will vote in favour of this bill, hoping that it will still be possible in the future to work together on the basis of constructive opposition, as was the case here. I am thinking in particular of a matter that we are currently dealing with, namely sexual criminal law, on which we have tabled many amendments, some of which have given rise to some openness in you. We will wait for the results. We will always be ready to move forward to defend truly more humane justice. Finally, those who sit on the committee with me know that I appreciate the small quotations. The next one seems particularly appropriate to me in the case before us. You know her: "There is no need to hope to undertake or to succeed to persevere." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u7	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the original aim of this project was to make justice "more humane, faster and firmer". This title is obviously attractive, since it takes up the three qualifiers of what we are entitled to expect from our third power. Who does not want justice to take into account the needs of the litigants? Who does not want it to lead to decisions that are rendered within a reasonable time or to an end to the feeling of impunity or even the actual impunity of the perpetrators? However, at first reading of the measures contained in this bill, minister, we soon realized that it was in fact a rather lucrative title, which was not up to its promises. In fact, he originally planned to put in prison people who did not belong there. This did not, let us admit, contribute to a more humane justice. Fortunately, the majority has come back to this inconsistency - I will talk about it later. I therefore acknowledge that there are some positive advances in this project, although they are not revolutionary - as his title suggested. First of all, I am thinking of facilitating the access of the King's Prosecutor and the magistrates responsible for criminal enforcement investigations to the central point of contact of the BNB. We urgently need to provide our justice, as well as our police, with the means to investigate, prosecute and enforce penalties for financial crime. I am also thinking of the introduction of a port ban to combat drug-related crime. Finally, we are giving our justice with an additional weapon, which has been sought for a long time, against drug trafficking. However, I must go back to a big black spot in this bill. Reference is made to the postponement of the entry into force of the Act of 17 May 2006 on the enforcement of short sentences, which was introduced, by amendment, by the majority in committee on 10 November 2006. This entry into force, which was originally scheduled for 1 December, was finally postponed by six months. At issue – in any case, the justification you have given us, Minister – is the fourth wave of the epidemic, which obviously has not spared the prisons, in view of the promiscuity that prevails there. However, this umpteenth postponement could – it should have – have been avoided, if you had had, Mr. Minister, a real plan to enforce these short sentences, regardless of the health crisis, with precise figures on the number of convicted persons concerned, but also on the necessary and mobilizable places in the coming months. I have tried to obtain these figures several times, but to no avail. We must therefore stick to the figures mentioned by the press: sometimes 422, sometimes 720, sometimes 750. Mr Minister, you said in committee on 27 October that these short sentences could nevertheless be carried out, despite the overcrowding, but also the pressure exerted by these new prisoners on our prisons. The pressure is now such that our prison officers, in any case on the francophone side, were again on strike no later than two weeks ago. The pressure is also such that the mayor of Saint-Gilles had to issue a new decree this week to limit the prison population in his commune. You were therefore convinced, minister, that this measure would work because the fourth wave of the epidemic was not yet a reality – these are your words. But this fourth wave had been announced for weeks. In addition, the government had announced its willingness to activate the pandemic law and thus the state of emergency several weeks ago. We must be on the right side: projects exist, fortunately, to strengthen our prisons. But I would have appreciated it, minister, that you acknowledged that this bill was not ready for the execution of these short sentences, in any case in conditions of detention that are dignified and humane, as the title of your bill states. Indeed, it must be noted that the projects of detention centres or transitional houses, which my party has always supported, both at federal and local level, are lagging behind. It is also true that Haren prison will only bring back 200 additional places, and this not until September 2022, in the best case. In this way, the time interval between June and September 2022 is the subject of many unknowns which I invite you even today to clarify as soon as possible, using precise figures that would allow us to assess the real impact that the execution of these short sentences would have on prison overcrowding, on the fundamental rights of prisoners, but also on the already deplorable working conditions of prison officers. We therefore remain in demand for guarantees to prevent our country from once again being condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for its overcrowding, but also to avoid that justice is once again criticized by citizens as a system that leaves perpetrators unpunished. In addition, I must acknowledge the shock of the majority with regard to the fate of prisoners in prison. Your initial project, Minister, initially envisaged nothing more than regularizing the current situation, i.e., putting in prison, due to a lack of places in psychiatric institutions, persons who had committed offences but had mental disorders. While the aim of immunising prison directors against criminal proceedings seemed entirely legitimate, the draft, in its initial version, presented us with a new condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights. The place of a person who must be interned and who has special care needs is not in prison. It was therefore thanks to the mobilisation of civil society and the referral of the amendments of colleagues to the Council of State on 10 November last in plenary session – a request which had indeed been supported by the opposition – that the majority finally returned to its position, which is more than by exceeding the majority-opposition divide since, as Mrs Matz said, it was able to be associated with the amendments tabled by the majority this afternoon. I am glad, of course. However, if initiatives are taken to create the new legal psychiatry centres – as the minister has pointed out in his policy note – these are only expected in 2026. In other words, for another four years, persons who must be interned will be held in prison. And this is an ever-increasing number. To remedy this, Mr. Minister, you have mentioned two avenues of solution: the strengthening of health services in prisons and the improvement of the transfer of internees to ordinary care in consultation with the Public Health FPS. I repeat that prisons are not intended to provide adequate care for those who should be interned. Infrastructure simply cannot meet the necessary reception conditions. Minister, that is why I encourage you to focus all your efforts on developing the transfer of interned persons to regular care as soon as possible, but also to ensure that the new legal psychiatric centres can open as quickly as possible. In conclusion, in view of the recent development of the bill through amendments that were adopted in the Justice Committee this afternoon, my group will support this text. I would point out that we will be extremely attentive to the execution of the short sentences as well as to the situation of those who have been forced to remain in prison for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. I must recall the discussion on the policy paper that we had yesterday but which has not yet been completed. Many of you have told me that I am too ambitious. Mr Christoph D'Haese even said that I am proud: "There is too much in your policy paper, you will never be able to deliver." But if I listen to Mrs Dillen today, I seem to be setting the bar too low. There wouldn't be enough in it and the title wouldn't match what I want to do. The flag wouldn't cover the cargo. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's an illusion to think that with one law, you can completely reform the Justice Department. It is a long-term work, of a lot of legislation. I spoke this afternoon about the law on sexual criminal law. Laws are one thing, practice on the ground is all the more important. It is then a culture, a mentality, a means. It's also about a smarter Justice. I can reassure you already, there will be such laws. There will be laws to make justice more human, faster and more punishing. I know that some of you are annoyed by the title. That reminds me of my time as Secretary of State. At that time, I had laws called 'laws for administrative simplification'. Those were laws with various provisions. Everyone agreed that in that way, with that title and with that text, you clearly say where you want to go. Former Minister Koen Geens called it 'potpourri'. That was his choice. The frame of reference 'humaner, faster and more punitive' is interesting, because majority and opposition constantly check whether the provisions actually comply with them. That makes it interesting. In fact, that title has also ensured that the majority has asked whether those provisions on internments effectively also increase humanity. The title helps us to discuss more clearly. I will persist, because there will still be laws with the same title, albeit a second, third and fourth version. The aim of the original text on internment was to strike a balance by submitting such matters every three months to the Chamber for the Protection of Society. That text also had an undesirable side effect. In fact, it would be registered by law that interns could be put in prison pending their placement. No one wants that, of course. However, these legislation and the amendments to it have prevented the directors from getting into trouble and could be prosecuted because they would not have moved on to the immediate placement of interned persons. Today they can be prosecuted. There's been a case where that happened. The solution we have found brings legal certainty to the directors and at the same time makes it clear that Belgium must comply with the European Court of Human Rights. We are committed to solving this problem day and night, but this is not easy. We have opened 2 forensic psychiatric centers (FPC) in the past. We'll open three more with 620 seats. This can only happen in the next legislature because a building, a prison or an FPC will not happen in our country in six months. That is the reality. For the FPC in Aalst we need to find the right place with the city of Aalst. Then there is the Flemish government with the permits. There is, of course, protest and support. If you don't want to build anything until everyone agrees, you better stop. Sometimes, in politics, you have to have the courage to defend files and, for example, defend a detention house in my own backyard. However, I have not been able to count on your party's support, on the contrary, Mrs Dillen. You're against impunity, but you're against every detention facility scheduled. That cannot be said of the N-VA. It is a credit to the N-VA that she said in my city: it is not an obvious decision, but we do not oppose it. I hope that there will be other cities and municipalities where detention homes will also be supported. I know that we cannot solve this problem immediately. But we will, for example, provide more care staff in the Merksplas and Paifve institutions to provide the same care as outside the walls of those institutions. Finally, we will also ensure a better flow to regular care, and for that we naturally have contact with Health and with the Members of the Communities. The port ban, then. Mrs De Wit, thank you for your constructive thought. The introduction of the port ban is due to the evaluation of the previous government's Power Plan. Mrs Dillen, it is true that we have only entered this in the drug law for the time being. After positive evaluation, we intend to extend it in the new Criminal Code to facts such as theft or gang formation. How will we enforce that? First of all, the port ban is mentioned in the criminal record, because it is a criminal penalty. This means that the police are aware of the port ban on a person and that they can check it, just as they do before the driving ban. If someone is sentenced to a driving ban, the police will be able to spot people on a random basis. But of course we do more. There is already an access check for the most sensitive places in the ports today. If the person concerned had access to it, his Alfapass will be revoked. This will ensure greater security. As far as the other port areas are concerned, I am indeed referring to the maritime security bill, which we will shortly be submitting to Parliament. We want to work on an ISPS platform. ISPS stands for International Ship and Port Facility Security Code. We will take the port bans on that platform. Public administrations will have access to this, and certain information will also be shared with employers. We have discussed this with the social partners, in the Joint Committee 301. So yes, Mrs De Wit, the employers will be informed on the basis of that platform. This design will provide for consistent access controls and the development of that platform. However, you are right. It does not make much sense to impose things if one cannot control them, but the reflex of how we will effectively make them enforceable and control them practically is certainly in our hands. You can count on it. As far as the CAP is concerned, access to it is being extended, which is useful and necessary. Why is access to the CAP important for the justice of the peace? That is a point of discussion, and I understand that. Mrs De Wit, you may also have seen in the newspaper or on television a number of abuses that are reported in relation to peace judges in the management of the assets of protected persons. It is just by consulting the CAP that the peace court can check whether or not fraud has been committed. In particular, the verification of the state of the assets and accounts of the person being protected can be facilitated in this way. The GBA gave a negative opinion, not on that point, not on the point of access to the peace court, but on the general principle of adding the current accounts to the CAP. That is what the Minister of Finance said about enlargement. By the way, that law was passed in the meantime, and we will not come back to that. This was the GBA's opinion, not the access of the peace court to the balances. I'm getting to the minimum test time. The College of Attorneys has indeed given a positive opinion on penalties for less than three years and only a negative opinion for a period of one year in the case of penalties for more than three years. In any case, I would like to tell you that the change is much more limited than you would think. After all, we are not going to have the minimum five-year probation period for the correctional sentences above five years to 30 years, nor are we going to have the minimum probation period for the sentences of more than 30 years and for life imprisonment, which is 10 years. The discussion is about the minimum probation period between three and five years. In order to clarify this once and for all, I would like to quote you from the report. On page 2 of the letter from the Communities to the Council of State of 6 March 2021, the following is stated: "A third point concerns Article 71, second paragraph of the Law of 17 May 2006. This provision is not amended and will therefore apply without prejudice to custodial sentences of three years or less. This means that the probationary period can never be shorter than two years for short prison sentences. In doing so, the Communities wonder whether such a probationary period for short sentences will not result in an automatic choice of end of sentence." At the end of the report, it says: "Modify Article 71, second paragraph with regard to the probationary period. Agreement of everyone, federal level and the Communities provided compromise one year, cfr Holsters." I quote from the report of that sitting. At the time, the Holsters Committee had proposed a one-year probationary period, with the convict also having to comply with certain conditions. So it has been a deliberate choice of ours to do so. It is also a choice that we support. I now come to the postponement of the WRP. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what I said at the time when we postponed the WHP for the first time. That was Corona at the time. I also stated at that time that we would not tolerate a further postponement unless we were once again troubled by Corona. Well, that is the reality again today. Mrs. De Wit, Corona is not only in society, but also in prisons. This week in Leuven there were 50 contagions among prisoners. So the prison went into partial lockdown. There is today an outage of more than 1,000 workers due to infections and quarantine. The situation in our prisons is therefore very difficult at the moment, also because of corona. So it would be irresponsible...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u9	(...). [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u10	Mrs. Dillen, I know that. I am not telling you anything new about the problem of overpopulation. You already have some experience in Parliament. Ever since you were in Parliament, she's been a problem. Master plans try to solve the problem. Mrs De Wit, we will now be creating net extra places with the construction of the prisons in Haren and Dendermonde. Not a few, but hundreds of places are added net. For example, in Dendermonde there are more than 200 places net. With Haren and Dendermonde more than 300 places are added net. When detention homes are built, net places can also be created. So there are also possibilities. The transition houses go to 100 places in 2022. When everything is put together, steps can be taken. However, it would be irresponsible to allow the law to enter into force in the current circumstances. But – and I am speaking here to Mr Boukili and others – it is absolutely necessary to bring this law into force separately from the covid. I would like to make a mistake about the entry into force. The law must not enter into force because we want to be the toughest or the most punishing, even if some make it. The reason for its entry into force is to do what Cesare Beccaria wrote in the 18th century. The best punishment is not the cruelest or the maximum punishment, but the minimum punishment that cannot be avoided. As soon as there is impunity, even for minor penalties, people feel that they can't handle it. This applies to all kinds of penalties, such as tax and financial penalties, but also to short sentences. A perpetrator must not be able to avoid his punishment; that is important. You say that up to three years, you mustn't jail. In order to enforce the sentence, judges may think that at least 37 months must be sentenced. That's the reality. Today, there is an inflation of sentences, Mr. Boukili, because some of the sentences are not being carried out. In applying this law, we will end with this inflation of penalties and return, probably and fortunately, to lighter penalties. This is also the philosophy of the new Penal Code. Instead of saying that every author must be sentenced to a prison sentence – an idea that dates back to 1867 – it must be said that the prison sentence is the last solution. This is the philosophy of the new Penal Code. It'll be introduced. Secondly, it is by applying the short sentence that we can implement the prison project, which is a good idea and which has been discussed here in Parliament for decades through resolutions. The government has allocated a budget of €92 million to implement it. It's not nothing! The ambition is to achieve about ten or fifteen detention centres. But I have to tell you that it's not easy because wherever I go, people are opposed to it. It's very difficult unless we find some burgers who have the nerve to say "we're going to do it." I invite local agents – there are many in this country – to dare. The minister is accused of talking about detention homes as if it were easy. So I suggested to the college in my city that we do it at home and take on our responsibilities. So we had a meeting with 350 people. They were opposed to impunity but did not want detention homes at home. The first party was the Vlaams Belang. He was against impunity but did not want a detention facility. The meeting was very hard. I took the floor. At first, everyone was against it. Some started screaming, etc. In the end, about 40% of people were convinced of the concept. I'm sure after a year, those who were opposed will want to volunteer in this detention home. That's the reality. We can see that this works, among other things, in Scandinavian countries. Like Mr. As Van Hecke said, in the long run, our conventional prisons must be replaced by detention centres throughout our country. And it is through the implementation of this law that we can achieve this. I come to the headgear, courtesy and respect, Mrs Dillen. I would like to point out that on 5 April 2007 an Antwerp judge whose name I will not mention had a man removed from court on Thursday. The man had to answer because he had not shown up on 8 October 2006 as co-chair of the municipal elections. For religious reasons, however, he refused to drop his yarmulke in the courtroom. He was evicted from court. A ruling from the European Court of Human Rights on 18 September 2018 has then been issued. Our country was condemned for sticking to the famous Article 759 that dates from the beginning of the Legal Code. It may be said that a government must be neutral, but here, according to the Court, it was about a visitor, a citizen. Of this, the European Court of Human Rights said that this citizen has the right to his or her beliefs, including in the courtroom, as is the case in the courtroom of a city hall. When the European Court of Justice gives its ruling, we must accept that. Unless you think that the European Court of Human Rights is foreign judges of the world. But then we have to get out of the Council of Europe, then we have to do so. So we've been able to do that. That has nothing to do with headscarves or yarmulks, but with respect for religious freedom in those places. Another discussion is what one does with people sitting behind a window. This debate on the Camu Statute can be held. I know, that's a tough discussion. Here we are carrying out what the European Court of Human Rights has decided, and that is self-evident. Then we end up with the abuse of the objection procedures. Why do we do that, Mrs. Dillen? Since 2014, the Court of Cassation has been calling the alarm, and in every annual report, I know that you read it every year, and I know that you are asking us to find a solution to this. The Attorney General at the Court of Cassation pointed out that purely dilatory, manifestly inadmissible or unreasonable refusal proceedings are numerous in criminal matters and that the penalty should therefore be reimposed. You asked for the exact number of cases. I looked that up because you know that I am looking for answers to all the questions you are asking. I can't answer everything, though. If you verify the annual reports of the Court of Cassation, you will see that there are several reports. Mrs Dillen has also asked a question about the pseudo-day magazine trade. Article 41 of this draft lays the legal basis for defining that kind of pseudo-daily trade. What are the criteria? We are going to determine the conditions for the daily trade that bets want to run, such as the hours when the bets can be accepted, the number of current press titles offered for sale, the maximum turnover in taking bets. Those will be the criteria in the KB to distinguish between real and pseudo-day magazine sales. Colleagues, I think I have, hopefully, answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u11	There is no point in having the debate again, but I am sticking to most of my remarks and objections and stick to my position. As far as probation is concerned, I can only say what I have been told and what my position is on this matter. That's where the discussion ends for me. I would like to mention one more point because I think it is so important, Minister, and that is the postponement of the WRP. I know that we have had many discussions about this. You are right: law and practice do not always track at the same time. I agree with you on this, and I understand it very well, but the problem is that, apart from corona, there was not everything ready on the ground to deal with it. That's my point: you don't have that capacity. We have long stressed the need to increase capacity. You say that capacity will be there. The problem is that you have promised it and announced it with a lot of bombs, when I have always said that the site is not ready, which appears once again today. Now you refer to Haren and Dendermonde, which will open next autumn. You will give one of the reasons why it was not possible this year in December, because they will not open until September. As far as detention homes are concerned, you have 21 to 60 places in the best case, with which you do not deal with the problem either. So you actually provide proof yourself that it certainly wasn't just corona. In June, therefore, you promised something that was not feasible in practice, and I sincerely regret that. So it's not about whether the bar is too high or too low, that's not even the point. The point is, it's your bar. You put them there, and now you're just gonna go under yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification of some of my questions. I will not reopen the debate, but I would like to express some reservations. Firstly, you are mistaken about the title. Mr Geens is not here at the moment, but he has spoken about it at the committee meeting and Mr De Wit will be able to confirm it. Mr. Geens did not describe his draft laws as potpourri laws at the time. The title potpourri was used in practice by the professors who had to explain the laws everywhere, including to lawyers and judges. (...):Potpourri is a geuzenname.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u13	Yeah, that description's from the professors. Secondly, what I said about the detention house in Kortrijk is not about the principle of an sich, but about the location. We are not alone in our opinion on this. The detention house will be located on the edge of a college and I understand that college is resisting it, according to what I read.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u14	Mrs Dillen, with all sympathy, I keep listening to what you say and I always answer all your questions, but what you just said is clearly wrong. On the contrary, VIVES, the university that opposes the detention house, even sent the director of one of the forms of training to declare that this location is a good thing, because the detention house can be easily visited by students. So what you're saying isn't right. Objection to the location is often raised by your party as a counter-argument. Any location is wrong, as neighbors will always protest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u15	That is not true, Minister, but we will be curious to see which locations will be chosen next year for the remaining detention homes, since you are planning 14 more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u16	Mrs Dillen, I suggest I take you to such an information evening. It would therefore be nice if you would support the implantation of the detention house.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u17	Minister, we are expecting 14 more locations and I am curious to know which locations they will be. You will have to deal with this quickly, because it will be short notice, because we are already over half this legislative period. I look forward to that debate. Thirdly, if you are serious about the judgments of the European Court of Justice, then you must implement all the judgments of the European Court of Justice in this area. In this context, I would like to repeat the example of internment. Finally, you motivate the delay under the guise of corona. You know I always try to be honest and I keep saying that motivation is incorrect. There's a shortage of prison places. You pointed out that I have long been a representative of the people, not only in the Chamber, but I have started in the Chamber. Yesterday, our election victory on 24 November 1991 was indeed very extensive in the media. Now, at the beginning of my career as a representative of the people, we visited, among other things, the Antwerp prison with the Committee on Justice to address the distressing situation there. Even then, that was an acute problem. We're 30 years away today. You've only been here a year. The main responsibility lies with all your predecessors. I can go back to 1991 when it was a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u18	A contract was signed on 30 September of this year. There's going to be a new prison in Antwerp. That is the reality now. A permit must be issued. It takes time. We're not here in China. In China a permit is issued one day, neighbors or not, and they build it in a few months. We saw that with the corona hospitals. That's not my model. I don't think this is their model for most people. There will be a new prison in Antwerp and that will indeed take too long, but the step has been taken in the meantime. You say the mistake lies with my predecessors. I don't know, this is a pretty inert system. I also want to take responsibility. It's too easy to blame everything on the past, but the plan is there. Also look at the net capacity increase in the longer term, with Haren, Dendermonde, Vresse and Leopoldsburg, the expansion in Ypres and the FPCs. If we look at all these things together, Mrs De Wit, Mrs Dillen, we will end up with 2,000 to 3,000 extra places. If we can achieve that today, then we really have the problem under control. However, the implementation of such a master plan is not evident. Look at the agony that one has distracted to construct hair, with the anarchists and so on. One should not have the illusion that it is all so easy. I don't have that illusion. Mrs De Wit, we will never be ready to implement that law properly, ever, because we assume that all detention homes will be built first and only then will the law enter into force. If you do that, many people will say: you have additional capacity that is free, first use it for something else. People know that, don't they? It will never be the right time, there will always be resistance. We will have to make that decision at some point. That is also consciously stated in the coalition agreement. Why is it in the coalition agreement? Not because we want to be the most punished, but because we want to reform our penitentiary system. That's why it's in there. If there's no more corona, I hope so with you, then we'll implement that law. Then there will be a lot of protest on the premises. That protest will be attracted by Mr Bouikili and others, I can assure you already, but it will never be the right time in our country to do so. So one must dare to stick one's neck out and just do so. We have been working on these detention homes since January of this year, but it is a very difficult battle. I admit that. Today, more than ever, there is resistance to implanting anything, a windmill, a detention house, a prison. There's resistance everywhere. Sometimes politics has to have the courage to defend points. I hope I find some brave people. In any case, there are many of them in the Chamber. Can one be in your congregation, in Archangel or in other places? Be my guest . That would be fantastic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u19	I'm not a mayor. I'm a member of the city council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u20	Submit a resolution, in Shield or in Archangel. Do it. Do it with you in the Kempen or in Antwerp. We have already had a conversation in Antwerp, but we will see what it will bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u21	Mr Minister, I will try to be brief because we must not repeat here any debate that we have already had or will have at the level of the Penal Code with regard to the application of short sentences. I'll join you when you say that the last resort must be prison. I fully agree with you. We have to go to that policy. But here, it's something else. The entry into force of the Law on the Enforcement of Short Sentences is discussed. But you admit yourself that its application is impossible on the ground. It's not due to the corona. It was already impossible before and it will be for a few more years. Indeed, as long as the problem of overcrowding in our prisons persists, its application will not be possible. When you say that it is above all the opposition that reacts and that there is an overbidding, for my part, I say nothing more than what I hear on the ground. Please quote me something I have said that is in opposition to what trade unionists and prison directors are saying about it! It's not because I'm just relaying their fears. You're talking about detention homes. It is indeed a good thing to set up detention centres, but you know as well as I do that it will not be enough. There are approximately 700 places in these facilities. Strikes took place a few weeks ago in Antwerp and Saint-Gilles, particularly for reasons of overcrowding. The prison in Saint-Gilles, for example, has 900 inmates, while its capacity is approximately 500. This means that, just in Saint-Gilles, one already exceeds half the capacity of the detention centres. This proves that there is a practical problem, a problem of prison overcrowding that Belgium has been suffering from for years. It is true, Mr Minister, that you are taking on a train that is already on the way, but as long as this issue is not resolved, this law will not be in accordance with the conditions on the ground. Minister, it's like going to the doctor, if the doctor doesn't make the right diagnosis, he won't administer the right treatment. So, if you say that this postponement is due to the corona, it is because you do not recognize that this postponement is due to a situation on the ground that makes the application of this law impossible. I wanted to make that clear, and I remain in my position in this regard. With regard to the deletion of the articles we discussed earlier concerning internees, it will not bring Belgium into line with the European Court of Human Rights. Indeed, dozens and dozens of internees are currently in prison, although they do not belong there. Their numbers should be zero. As long as this is not the case, we will be in breach of the European Court of Human Rights. Such abolition will only concern our legislation, but it will remain illegal in the eyes of international treaties. We must therefore find solutions for these internees. In committee, you told me earlier that answers would be provided. We will come back to it to learn about the tangible figures and the timetable. In any case, as long as it is not seriously addressed through a precise and quantified plan, the dual problem of internees and prison overcrowding will prevent the implementation of such reforms. For the time being, the only response from detention centres remains inadequate. You're also talking about Haren's prison. The situation is already so catastrophic that these measures will not be able to respond to them, regardless of the application of the short sentences. Yes, it has an impact on our justice system, because judges are trying to find other ways to enforce sentences. Substantive work needs to be done to find out what justice and how we want to be incarcerated. It is emphasized that short sentences should be applied in prisons without any care and lack of staff to create a link. In our country, reintegration is still catastrophic, since our recidivism rate is among the highest in the European Union, because of these same conditions. This is a question of a conception of justice in general. The problem of overpopulation remains central. In this regard, either the delay of six months may lead to another, or the actors on the ground will always be faced with very difficult or even impossible situations to deal with. I just wanted to insist on these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u22	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u23	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2175/15) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2175/15) The bill has 143 articles. The draft law has 143 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u24	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u25	Minister, you have been Minister of Health for more than a year now and have to lead the country through a crisis that comes and goes and goes again and again. When we looked back at the first models we saw, we saw that corona could offer itself as an accordion. That's what it turns out now, with waves following one another. However, we are going in circles in politics. We're not going with the accordion. A number of lines of defense have been set up, but that has been difficult. We all remember the coronablunders of your predecessor, but you also had a slow start: a slow start of the vaccination campaign, the forgotten signature for vaccines, syringes that weren't ordered in time, so we had to sit on our knees and needed the goodwill of friendly countries to get the syringes to Belgium and be able to vaccinate. There were also vaccine contracts and lack of transparency. You have also failed to address some of the continuing operational problems of a number of top officials. However, that was all before the summer. Until then, you actually remained quite calm. You had it under control, despite a number of obvious whims. In recent weeks, however, I have noticed a tension, Minister. Managing a crisis like this is obviously not easy, but it seems that you are no longer in control. You forget to extend laws, you're late for the assessment of the third shot, you really weren't quite ready to catch the fourth wave in our healthcare settings. It is striking that the federal government, especially your health department, has not been able to carry out a number of key tasks in recent weeks. You're a competent minister. How can you explain that and how do you experience that responsibility? The Corona Commissioner's report also makes it very clear that it is no longer clear to many partners in the management strategy. You're clearly losing sight of it. Let us return to the last few weeks. On 7 October, I confronted you here in plenary with your forgetfulness to extend the emergency law. Consequently, our vaccination centres had to continue working with half of the vaccine workers, because there was no delegation of the nursing duties. You had not made the preparations for the third injection, despite the fact that the Flemish Government had called for it and despite the fact that experts had also called for it. Dirk Ramaekers, the chairman of the Vaccination Task Force, still a sidekick, had already warned in the spring that that third shot should be rolled out. But you didn't agree to that. Now you would have a text ready in which you would allow those vaccines to be vaccinated again. What's the big problem? The legal vacuum. Minister, a care provider has a medical responsibility. Anyone who puts a syringe will do it with a medical responsibility. How will you ensure that those people, who voluntarily perform another care job and also vaccinate in a vaccination center, have certainty, that they have legal backup, and that they can have peace of mind when they vaccinate people? You do know what medical responsibility is, and how serious it is taken by the health care providers? The same is true of a number of test policy measures. Yesterday you mentioned this in the Committee on the Interior. You want to test for events but in a legal framework is not yet foreseen. Well, that's just mucking around in the margins, isn't it? That is absolutely not a sign of good policy. We have talked about the third shot many times. But I'd like to think about it again. You said earlier that you want to bet on it and absolutely want to go for that third shot. Well, Minister, if I look at the Corona Commissioner's report, I can see that 250,000 shots can be made today. You can scale up to 1 million. So you haven't done your job in the last few weeks. We need to scale this up as a matter of urgency. That third shot could make a difference. It can make a difference in the curve after a week. I find it very remarkable that during the 21 months in which we are in this crisis, you have not focused on the resilience of our healthcare system. We started the fourth wave with a handicap, there was a number of beds not available. It was written in the stars that in the autumn waves would come again. What has the care staff done in the periods during which the virus circulation was less? It has bet on catching up on delayed care. Today they must be ready again, without any structural measures being taken to ensure, for example, that there is a buddy effect. Hospitals put their own bets on that. Hospitals have re-invented themselves over and over again and have allowed them to have more hands on the bed. This is also a recommendation that is given: bet on the resilience of care, bet on switching on it. As every organization that comes into crisis switches, care should also shift. What you and the federal government were very quick with was the introduction of the pandemic law so that you could bypass the parliamentary debate and take action without further discussion. You have indicated that you are in favour of parliamentary debate, but hearing your group leader is difficult to assess. He calls this political palaver. However, this parliamentary debate and support is very important. You should know that when you communicate, because that's really a problem in the last few weeks, communicating polarizing about this corona crisis. The Prime Minister talked about the wave of non-vaccines, we talked about the quote about the catering business that should not be sufficiently controlled and boycotted and culpabilising people. Of course, we really have to protect our elderly and vulnerable, but we have to be careful about the stump that we put on our society. We need to make sure that we can continue to work, go to school and run our economy. I'm expecting a connecting health minister. I totally lost him. The communication is problematic. Mr Minister, on solution-oriented work, you have indicated that you will buy virus inhibitors. Nevertheless, you will continue to believe in the European joint venture. We also have examples of this: mouth masks that did not come, syringes that did not come and vaccines that were delivered too late. We absolutely must learn to live with the virus. This also means, as has already been mentioned, the resilience of care. Today, 21 months after the start of the crisis, you say you want to outsource administrative tasks. That's a good plan. That is a good plan that you could have worked on in the summer and on which you could have actively deployed to ensure that we have enough hands on the bed today. Minister, I saw you in a general practitioner's practice about 20 years ago, which you visited. I invite you to do that again today, to join us and to feel what healthcare providers have been through in the past. When you take decisions in the Conciliation Committee tomorrow, think about it. Then remember that an ever-changing policy cannot give continuous care to our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth wave was predicted at the end of the summer, including by government experts, and yet the third one is too late. One does not need to be a scientist or a medic to know that autumn is the beginning of the virus season and yet the third prick is too late. We already knew last summer that immunity after vaccination is decreasing and that our care provider and vulnerable people who were the first to be vaccinated would not be sufficiently protected by the virus season and yet the third shot will be too late. The test policy, that's one hell of a disaster. For months now, we have been asking for more bets on self-tests. Give people back their responsibility and integrate the super-fast tests. What happened to the saliva test, anyway? It would be ideal for use in schools, for example. Especially for children, it is less invasive than the ambitant PCR test. At the end of August, the general practitioners also raised the alarm that such a test and quarantine policy could not be maintained. A proposal from the GP yesterday in De Oortend was to give each citizen ten self-tests with a clear manual and to communicate clearly. Maybe you can use the contact tracing budget for that, because that still doesn't work for a meter. Make sure that the infolines are accessible so that people do not have to call their GP. Your measures, on the one hand, make people unconsciously infect each other and, on the other hand, exclude a whole group of people. The Corona Safe Ticket is not safe at all, but gives a false sense of safety and just provides more infections. Even your experts warned about this last summer. Your pestilence measure will be maintained and you will exclude anyone who has not been vaccinated for all kinds of reasons from social life. You go even further and make it a CST+, a coronapas with test or with mouth mask. For those who cannot implement that in their case, you have a third option. They're just gonna have to close their shit down. Your CST is like your Silver Fund back then, an empty box. You are also not shy of calling into the media catering operators who do not take the CST seriously. If one window of your socialist house had not yet been smashed in, you have done so expertly. Ventilation will certainly not be a problem there. Your actions are aimed at scaring and harassing people. The block had to be on it, remember? There's no scientific evidence, and you admitted it yourself. There are no extra beds, no extra hands on the bed. Caretakers should give it up with applause or, worse still, perhaps even with resignation. There are no long-term measures, but always ad hoc measures and always too late. Besides, the extra hands on the bed are also needed outside corona times. That was already the case for the corona pandemic. Let me refresh your memory with a collage of headlines. In 2014 we read: "Hospitals are full, operations are delayed; in 2015 it reads: " flu provides full hospitals" and in 2016 "flu wave affects many people who are otherwise never sick"; in 2017 a newspaper headlines "French hospitals overloaded by flu epidemic"; and in 2018 we read "550,000 Belgians in bed with flu. Hospitals need to double fold." Minister, it is a historic problem; it is a structural problem which has not been and is not addressed. When do you stop taking measures that are not proven to be useful, such as the CST? When do you delete measures that have been proven to be counterproductive, such as the CST? When will you stop culpabilising people and entire sectors? When will you finally consider long-term measures, both for society and for care?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u27	Minister, here we are! We are in the fourth wave and tomorrow morning you will have the Concertation Committee. Apparently, the measures announced are severe. We will start again with the policy of taps: closing certain activities, limiting opening hours, etc. We don't know exactly. What we know is that our independents are going to suffer. We wonder what our nine health ministers have done in the last 18 months of a pandemic. It is not the number of ministers that is lacking to prevent this from happening again. What have you put in place to make sure you're stronger to cope with this wave? I have a lot of questions about that. Minister, why isn't there a CO2 detector in every classroom in each school? How much does it cost? Eighty euros? Is that too much for our students? Eighteen months ago, at the beginning of the epidemic, there were 2,000 ICU beds. Today, we only have 1,800, because of a lack of arms, because people get sick and burn-out, and some resign because they can't. Already before the pandemic, more than 19,000 nurses were no longer working in the health care sector due to poor working conditions. How is it that, after eighteen months, it has not been possible to attract nurses to the sector, for example, by recognizing the nursing profession as a difficult job, making salaries more attractive to everyone? Minister, how is it possible for your employer or insurer to see your immunization status by going to Bruvax? Why, while you are voting here for very intrusive measures for privacy, are conflicts of interest not resolved at the Data Protection Authority with Mr. Robben? At the height of the second wave of the pandemic, 1,700 people were working at call centres to find contacts. How is it that 700 people were laid off and that this wave had to start with only 1,000 people active? As a result, the number of people able to contact has decreased from 91 to 60 per cent. A person declared positive at the covid or who has to quarantine has a thousand questions to ask; she has a lot of concerns. Why, then, does the search for contacts continue to be so bureaucratically organised in call centres? Why is there no ownership of clusters and outbreak searches? How is it that general practitioners have to face this fourth wave without any additional help? The government has called on consulting offices. As far as we are concerned, we general practitioners are the only ones who have once again faced the same administrative problems. Why are self-tests so expensive in Belgium when they are twice as expensive in the countries around us? Why do you still have to wait for a code to be tested, knowing that it takes days and days? Why do people still not receive guaranteed income in the event of quarantine? Why do you always make – excuse the term – the carpet in front of Big Pharma? We know that if patents are not shared around the world, we will have to deal with the variants again. Minister, you have presented us with a general policy note. You first wrote there – this is a scandal – that we had defeated the virus, that the virus was behind us. And a week later, you quickly changed the text. You proposed to dismantle the Corona Office. You said you were going to start working on the ventilation plan in 2022. Every time a wave decreases, you stop everything, you terminate, you reduce the number of test centres. Instead of investing in prevention, we dismantle everything. It's a scandal! Minister, when are you going to learn the real lessons from this crisis? When will you invest in prevention and put in place an effective preventive policy? The dike should not be reduced when the tide is low. She has to stay as she is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u28	I do not find it easy to answer these interplays. I've heard Mrs. Sneppe who actually doesn't believe in anything. The CST does not work, you do not believe in the vaccines and you do not believe in the measures taken. Well, Mrs. Sneppe... Yesterday, your partymate, Dries Van Langenhove, said that Brazil was not so bad. I told him, "Ah, Brazil, not so bad?" Then he immediately backed out. In Brazil's model, you let the virus burn and when it's burned out, there are indeed no more infections, just seemingly stacks. I noticed yesterday that this was apparently your group's recipe, but it did not turn out to be. Then why don't you come over here and explain what you'd do? What measures would you take? Suppose you have the absolute majority in Flanders, and Flanders is independent, what would the Flemish Interest do in the interests of the Flemings? What would you do about the virus? You're just gonna walk away from it. In all honesty, it's hard to argue with you. With Mrs Merckx, too, I find this difficult for this interplay. Mrs Merckx, you have given a long list of problems. The contact tracing does not work well, a quacking BRUVAX, in the schools the CO2 meters have come too late... You know my point of view on those CO2 meters? I've been advocating CO2 meters in all classes for six months. You can understand that you cannot ask me to go into the details of what is going wrong instead of the regional ministers who organise the contract tracing. I can say that, for example, my colleague Wouter Beke has intervened in good time to re-enlist large-scale contacts. The reality is that he doesn't get that easily filled out. I don't really know what to blame Wouter Beke for here in his absence. I shouldn't even go into that. However, I would find it unfair to allow him to pass on the fact that he knows nothing and does nothing. What I do want to say is that even with the best contact tracing, it is impossible to follow this virus circulation. If we have 25,000 infections in one day in a country as small as Belgium, as can be seen from the provisional figures we get for the last not yet definitive day, and we have to ask ourselves who these people have been in contact with, then we will have problems, even with the best contact tracing and the best organised testing capacity. By the way, remember that two or three weeks ago people from the opposition in this hemisphere had great interplays about the great test capacity. I said at the time that one must have such a test capacity ready and that this costs money. At that time, I was severely criticised for having that test capacity ready and because it cost so much money! That was supposedly very wrong and far too expensive. I told you we were gonna try to make them cheaper. Now, however, it appears that it was necessary to have them ready. So I shall return to the substance of the matter, Mrs Merckx. We must take very difficult measures to reduce the circulation of the virus. Then we can try to get our contact search organized properly. I didn't say everything was perfect. What I have said is that the real debate in which Flemings, Waalen and Brussels people need to be clear is about what to do when the house is on fire. Should we say 'Let it burn', like Bolsonaro or Dries Van Langenhove, or start a big discussion about more investment in healthcare? Or should measures be taken the next day to put that fire out? Let us not run away from the debate on the measures to be taken to put out the fire. Before testing we are going to make additional proposals to relieve the burden on the general practitioners, because this is not going to work for them anymore. We will put forward proposals at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health and tomorrow morning in the Consultation Committee to take all possible measures to ensure that people who may be infected and have to be tested do not have to go to the GP anymore. We've already developed some of those cases. They were already in the media. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that a person who thinks he is ill should no longer call on the general practitioner to get the test and to get a health certificate for the employer. If someone has a high-risk contact, someone can get a test code of their own. Such things must be possible without harassing the general practitioner. We also need to strengthen the testing centres. Such things must be done. The bottom line is there's too much virus. Domus Medica and the general practitioners are right to call on the rulers to do something about the circulation of the virus. That brings me to your interplay, Mrs Depoorter. You said we shouldn't polarize too much. I agree. Sometimes I have a little too much adrenaline, too. You say that I should not polarize too much, and then you make an argument in which you say that the federal government has done everything wrong. Everything that's wrong is because of the federal government. I do my best to do what we do good and bad in good consultation with my colleagues in the sub-governments. I could now talk about the number of boosters in Flanders and Wallonia, but I am not going to play that game. We need to speed up the delivery of booster vaccines in the three regions. We have taken decisions together with the regions so far. In August, we already made decisions on the booster vaccine. In September, we decided together on the booster vaccine, among other things to vaccinate all 65-plussers. A little later, we also decided to vaccinate the care staff. Then we decided to give everyone a booster, because we think this is useful right now. On Saturday, we will put in place a plan to give everyone in all regions that booster vaccine as soon as possible. It's about decisions taken together with the colleagues, so not the federal government against the rest. I find remarks in that sense a little strange. We have already discussed the emergency law and legal responsibility in depth. I propose that we reopen that debate when I submit the draft to the Chamber. In fact, as it should be, I immediately started working on the draft at the request of the regions, as the regions have called for it in response to my question of what is needed. Mrs Depoorter, the only polarizing thing I would like to say about this is that I find it a little strange what was said here, given that, two weeks ago in our debate in plenary, you denied the problem of virus circulation in Flanders. The problem, as you said at the time, were the Brusselsers and the Walls. At that time, I asked you to stop doing so, since the number of infections in Flanders increased by 99% two weeks ago, more than in Brussels and Wallonia. But no, no, that could not be said. So perhaps you should put your hand in your own bosom as well. I am interested in the answer to the question of what you will do to get the message from the public that we must take protective measures, that we must continue to believe in the vaccines and also give everyone a booster vaccine at the right time and that we must intervene in all sectors, in the nightlife, in education, perhaps also in shopping. In all sectors, the network needs to be slightly safer, but this requires difficult and important intervention in some sectors. Mrs Depoorter, will you, like your party colleague Jan Jambon, join forces in defending this collegial approach and taking care of it together, across the boundaries of majority and opposition? Or do you think you can explain it here by calling everything about Belgium wrong and labeling everything that is non-Belgian as good? That's so futile. If that's what you want, I'd like to give you more details about the booster vaccine. The essential thing is that we have put 1 250 000 in place, that we have taken all the decisions together and that we will have a full plan to roll out on Saturday, asking the regions to ensure that everyone has this extra super protection as soon as possible. On the eve of another meeting of the Consultative Committee, I do not really want to call for total consensus. It is very good to say that one measure would be better than the other, but to think together about what we should do to protect people, to stop the virus circulation and to really do what Domus Medica and the general practitioners in Flanders are asking, namely to inhibit virus circulation and take strong measures, without taboos. We must answer that rather than play a game in which Belgium is bad and the rest is good. None of that makes much sense, Mrs Depoorter. I hope that tomorrow we will be able to jointly, across the borders of majority and opposition, across different ideologies, across different interests, to do what the people demand together, namely to take firm action against the ever-increasing infections. If we do not do so, contact detection will not be possible, testing will not be possible, general medicine will not be possible and hospitals will become increasingly in difficulty. That's what I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u29	Minister, we all like to play games. I have the impression you like to play hide-and-seek. That must have been one of your favorite games in your youth, and I have the impression that you're still doing it, hiding yourself and not accepting your responsibility. You must avoid becoming a minister of false statements, false promises and half measures. Flipflop Frank. You mentioned polarizing statements. But, Minister, you are wrong. We are not talking about polarizing political statements. How do you explain turning the population against each other? How do you explain that you're calling on hospitality stores that you don't think would be adequately controlled to boycott? Is that the clear, binding communication expected from a statesman? I'm not serious. You mentioned the decisions taken in September. But you did not tell us what you did not decide in September, in particular the third injection for the care providers, for which there was a clear call. You could have made a difference. I showed you a table this afternoon. I can show it to you again. According to The Lancet's study, there is a significant reduction in the risk of a serious disease for the caregivers about 7 days after that shot. That's your responsibility. You hide behind your decision and behind your responsibility. We have had a discussion about the virus circulation. The most important thing, much more than communicating about illness, is the occupation of the Intensive Care Service of the hospital. It is much more important to ensure that patients in these departments can be treated. You didn't do anything about it, but you didn't do anything about it. You didn't take any action. You're asking me what I'd do. What would I have done? I would have decided earlier to give the third shot to the caregivers. Minister, I would now decide on the scale of one million third shots per week from now until the end of the year. Whoever wants, could get the third shot. You say about the legislation on vaccineers that you are coming up with the text, that there is no legal vacuum and that there is no need to worry about it. What will you do specifically for the care provider who is facing a medical accident? You're not answering. You didn't talk about the care buddies. You have not even indicated in your reply that you intend to do something about it. If we are talking about cooperation and the lessons that we should receive from you in terms of cooperation, I would like to ask one more question. Minister, where were you in September 2021, when our Prime Minister, Jan Jambon, asked to work together and prepare the third shot? Where were you? Where was your collegiality? When I confronted you in committee with the Flemish Government's decision to bet on the third shot, you fell out of the sky and immediately replied that there was no scientific evidence for it and that it had yet to be looked at. You have watched for a long time and you have ensured that we are now in the situation in which we are. That's your responsibility and you're avoiding them. This is a special, but very unfortunate, situation for a health minister in the midst of a crisis. Mr Minister, I would like to return to the polarising statements and the panic-mongering and a missed booster shot. Respect for the care you have with words but not with deeds. You're not solving a rising problem. The proposal on the health buddies is simply not included. For the virus inhibitors you want to wait for Europe. Mr Minister, I say this to you as a care provider, as a partner of a care provider and as a local director. It is up to you to recapture and implement the policy in this area thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u30	Minister, it is becoming increasingly clear that you are trying to survive this corona crisis as a swarming ship. Your measures show little respect for our people and have a high Comical Ali level. For the Flemish interest it is clear: with you at the helm our ship will continue to swipe from one peak to another. Perhaps you could start by answering our questions in committee. You could learn something from it. You like to put us away as anti-vaxers, you just did it again. However, the Flemish interest is for vaccination, but only against compulsory vaccination. Vaccinate our vulnerable! Where's the third shot? My 81-year-old dad's still waiting. It would be a pleasure for you to listen and, indeed, to answer our questions, rather than throw away any critical voice as an anti-vaxer. Take measures that do not turn people against each other, but connect and unite. Use the vaccines to protect our vulnerable, not to sow panic and division. Stop spreading fear and panic. How long have we been asking that! Not only are we asking that, from the point of view of care, we are begging to work on structural reforms at last. The catering industry is begging for workers, instead of culpabilising and boycotting the sector. The ordinary citizen too is tired of being fingered at all times. Yesterday the finger was still in the air: watch out, follow the measures carefully, or we'll go into lockdown. So if the measures are not followed, it is our fault that we are in a lockdown. No, Minister, not the care, not the catering industry, not our children and young people, not the ordinary working man is guilty of this fourth wave, but you, who do not tolerate any contradiction, who, like the orchestra of the Titanic, continue to play the same tune, even though the ship is going down. You refuse to answer our questions. You turn people against each other. You lie and you cheat. You, who, without the electorate's mandate, believe themselves to be emperor. This is what we want to stop. This has to stop. It would be better for everyone's health that you quit. I therefore have a motion of censure for you, Minister. We demand your resignation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u31	Minister, I am not reassured by your answer. Measures will be taken. We're intertwining, relaxing, intertwining, relaxing. When are we gonna get out of there? The only solution that is put forward is third shot vaccination. When is the real injection we need, the real preventive measure? You don't think contact studies can be followed with 25,000 infections. The question is, of course, why 700 people were removed from the contact investigation. Why weren't these people involved in the source research or cluster research? You must not hide behind the state reforms, you have approved them yourself. You shouldn't have said that Mr. Beke should have done that. I want to know why that didn't happen and why every time things get a little better, things get smaller. You also announce some measures to support the general practitioners. In order to relieve the burden on the general practitioners and improve the contact research, more texts will be sent. Then people can fill out an Exceltable to enter their contacts. That's not a solution. You can't fight an epidemic with texts and Excel tables. For every text you send to people, a GP gets an extra call because people don't know what to do because they don't have answers to their questions. When will you invest in people and strengthen the first line with people? When are you changing the contact investigation from a bureaucratic, repressive thing to a human thing that really supports people? An epidemic is being fought with empathy and not just with repression and fines on the ground. That's what we do with Medicine for the People. For example, in the context of the vaccination campaign, we have, by our own means, called the patients who had received a letter from the government that they should be vaccinated. Who listened to these people and asked why they didn't want to be vaccinated, what doubts did they have? For most of our patients we called, that was the first time they had anyone on the phone from health care and who listened to their fears and what they think of vaccination. That's the road we need to take. PVDA will continue to stand up for all those structural investments I'm talking about. Among other things, we will continue to stand up for wage retention in case of quarantine. Tomorrow it will be announced that people will probably have to go into quarantine longer, including the vaccinees, but who will pay their salary? If cleaning women, bus drivers or shopkeepers earn only 1,200 euros and lose 30% of their wages, they cannot keep up. Even the GEMS has argued in its opinions for wage retention in case of quarantine. We will continue to support staff in the healthcare sector. That staff is still standing up for extra investment today. It's not enough. The nurse's profession must be made more attractive and more money must go to the hospitals and, above all, to the staff. We will also continue to work for the lifting of patents. You didn't say anything about that either. If we don't solve that and don't make sure everyone gets at least two shots worldwide, then there's no point in giving people three, four or five shots here, because then the virus will keep coming back. We will also continue to stand up for respect for people's privacy and that this is really being done. Furthermore, we need to invest in prevention, in human prevention, testing, tracing and detection of infections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u32	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of the ladies Kathleen Depoorter, Catherine Fonck, Dominiek Sneppe and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the late roll-out of the third dose of covid-19 vaccines, both in terms of care staff and risk groups and in terms of the broad population, despite the repeated demand by the Flemish Government and the N-VA group in particular; - having regard to the recent polarising communication in the media and in the Premier's Chamber as well as the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, its negative impact on the further vaccination campaign and the need to primarily persuade non-vaccinators with substantive arguments and measures rather than nailing them to the public scandal, which may be counterproductive; - having regard to the still unremedied legal vacuum in relation to the matter until further notice. the many volunteers (with a medical profile) in the vaccination centres that were achieved by not extending the Law of 6 November 2020 in time to allow nursing activities carried out in the context of the Coronavirus COVID-19 epidemic by persons not legally authorised to do so, causing many volunteers (temporarily) to become insecure and risking their liability while remaining unstoppably committed to tackling the covid-19 crisis; - having regard to the lack of an extension of the rules on the so-called care buddies, i.e. helping hands without a diploma in care who, after training through a limited number of actions, can assist the nurses (temporary) in the care of the patient (i.e. all kinds of non-healthy tasks such as handing out meals, changing beds, helping patients contact their family via a tablet, chatting with patients and reading the newspaper, etc.), which means that hospitals no longer rely on the health buddies during the fourth wave, while there is an acute need for helping hands; - having regard to the importance of respecting the principles of good administration and ensuring legal certainty, - having regard to the need for respect for the commitment and thus the legal protection of the many volunteers who supported the healthcare staff during this health crisis and thus helped to ensure that our healthcare system did not hijack; - having regard to the need for respect for the care staff and the fact that every effort should be made to alleviate their work as much as possible and to provide maximum support, given their continuing commitment; - having regard to the massive breakdown of the exhausted care staff associated with the psychological, mental and physical hardships they experienced on a large scale during this crisis; - having regard to internal disputes and disagreements between and within the Government (Parties) as to the scope of the vaccination obligation of the (care) staff (in the health care institutions) and whether or not to achieve a general vaccination obligation and the uncertainty and mistrust that this results in the population; - having regard to the undermining of the public support for the measures taken to address the covid-19 crisis caused by the aforementioned malpractice and misplaced communication of the government's parties; addressing the covid-19 crisis; - considering the need for continued attention to be paid to maximizing support and to the mental well-being of the population; asks the government - ensure that the communication of the government and its ministers in general, and of the Prime Minister and of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health in particular, is always constructive and avoids the polarisation of society and stigmatisation of population groups; - ensure that booster pricks/re-doses can always be rolled out as quickly as possible and at the most appropriate time, by carefully monitoring the scientific evidence and results in other countries, which have previously been referred to as booster pricks, and by taking seriously and anticipating signals from the Länder; - ensure that our country has sufficient and adequate virus inhibitors as soon as possible, taking into account in particular the latest developments and innovations in this field; - ensure that there is sufficient support for the care staff, not least through temporary or temporary helping hands in the form of health care agencies and volunteers in the vaccination and testing centres, and that the facilitating regulations in this area are constantly followed closely and extended in time, if necessary, so that legal vacuums no longer arise, with all the consequences for the much-needed support of our care system and our care providers; - ensure that there is always sufficient respect within the government and public administrations for the care staff, the many volunteers and the acceptance of measures by the public; - to ensure compliance with the principles of good administration and legal certainty in its policy of corona; - to focus more on conversations of non-vaccinators with medical professionals regarding the vaccines, their composition, their usefulness and any side effects, taking into account the overload of the general practitioners and the care in general." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Kathleen Depoorter, Catherine Fonck, Dominiek Sneppe and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - due to the delayed deployment of a third dose of Covid-19 vaccine for both health-care personnel and at-risk groups and the rest of the population, despite repeated requests from the Flemish Government and the N VA group in particular; - having regard to the recently issued cleavage communication by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health in the media and in the House, the negative influence of these statements on the continuation of the vaccination campaign and the need to convince non-vaccinated persons first and foremost by means of substantive measures and arguments rather than to nail them to the pillori, a strategy that could be counterproductive; - in view of the ongoing legal vacuum faced by the many volunteers (who have a medical profile) active in vaccination centres, a legal vacuum created by the absence of a timely extension of the Act of 6 November 2020 to allow persons who are not legally qualified to carry out nursing activities in the context of the VOCID-19 coronavirus epidemic, which has resulted in many volunteers from vaccination centres being (temporarily) uncertain and having to put into play their responsibility as they continue to engage tirelessly in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis; - in view of the absence of an extension of the rules on "buddies", i.e. helpers without a diploma in health care who, after training, can (temporarily) assist nurses by performing a limited number of tasks in patient care (all kinds of non-medical tasks such as distributing meals, changing sheets, helping patients to get in touch with their families by means of a tablet, chatting with patients and reading the newspaper, etc.), a situation which means that hospitals will no longer be able to use these aids during the fourth wave, despite the acute need for small hands; - in view of the importance of respecting the principles of good governance and ensuring legal certainty; - in view of the need to show respect for the commitment of the many volunteers who assisted the health workers during this health crisis and thus helped to avoid the collapse of our health care system, and given the importance, therefore, of providing legal protection to these volunteers; - in view of the need to show respect for healthcare staff and to make every effort to alleviate their work as much as possible and to support them as much as possible, given their continuing commitment; - in view of the massive defections within an exhausted health-care staff, linked to the mental, mental and physical suffering that he was confronted with on a large scale during this crisis; - in view of internal quarrels and contradictions within the government or between its constituent parties as to the scope of the immunisation obligation of the staff (caregiver) and whether or not to introduce a general vaccination obligation, and the uncertainties and mistrust that result from such behaviour among the population; - in view of the weakening of citizens' support for measures to combat the crisis in the Covid-19, prompted by the disastrous management referred to above and by the inappropriate communication circulated by this government and its constituent parties concerning the fight against the health crisis; - in view of the need to constantly ensure that membership and mental well-being of the population are maximized; asks the government - to ensure that its communication, as well as that of its ministers in general and of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health in particular, is always constructive and avoids climaxing society and stigmatizing certain population groups; - to ensure that booster doses can always be available as quickly as possible and at the most appropriate time, by carefully observing the scientific reality and results in other countries that have decided to administer a booster dose more quickly, taking seriously the signals from federated entities and showing anticipation in this regard; - to ensure that our country has as soon as possible a sufficient quantity of adequate antivirals, in particular in view of the latest developments and innovations in this field; - to always ensure that health-care workers receive adequate support, in particular through the use of temporary or non-temporary aids in the form of "buddies" in care facilities and volunteers in vaccination and screening centres, and that regulations on this subject are always monitored and, where appropriate, extended in a timely manner, so that no legal vacuum can be created, with all the consequences resulting from it, in the context of the essential support to our health-care system and to our health-care providers, - to ensure that, in the same way as public services, there is sufficient respect for the health workers and the many volunteers, and citizens' acceptance of the measures; - to always ensure, in its policy to combat the pandemic, that the principles of good governance and legal certainty are respected; - to focus more on the dialogue between non-vaccinates and medical professionals on vaccines, their composition, usefulness and possible side effects, taking into account the workload of general practitioners and the health care sector in general." A motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of the ladies Kathleen Depoorter, Catherine Fonck, Dominiek Sneppe and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - in view of the many calls from the care sector for structural measures in the care sector; - having regard to the polarising statements made by the Minister in the media, - having regard to the many tens of thousands of dissatisfied citizens on the march against the CST; - having regard to the many and persistent blunders in the corona policy; deprives the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health of confidence." A motion of distrust was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mmes Kathleen Depoorter, Catherine Fonck, Dominiek Sneppe et Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - in view of the many calls made by the healthcare sector for structural measures in health care; - taking into account the polarizing statements made by the Minister in the media; - in view of the tens of thousands of dissatisfied citizens who participated in the protest march against the CST; - in view of the numerous and incessant shortcomings committed in the context of the management of the health crisis; withdraws its trust in the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of the ladies Kathleen Depoorter, Catherine Fonck, Dominiek Sneppe and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - whereas the fourth wave of the covid-19 pandemic is a fact which puts considerable pressure on health care in our country; - considering that care personnel are exhausted and morally low by the new overload of the care system and the threat of firing unvaccinated care personnel; - whereas general practitioners are overburdened by the many questions and uncertainties of citizens; - Whereas laboratories are experiencing increasing difficulties in processing the many tests for covid-19; - whereas the contact tracers fail to contact all confirmed positive cases which fail to break contamination chains; - whereas people still suffer loss of earnings when they have to be quarantined; - considering that proper ventilation is important in preventing contamination; asks the government - to make work of the revaluation of the entire care staff rather than threatening to make redundancies; - to structurally strengthen the first line of our healthcare system; - to increase the test capacity and make testing cheaper and easier for the population; - to strengthen and tilt contact research in the first line; - to ensure full maintenance of income during the quarantine in order to ensure compliance with quarantine measures; - to take measures to promote ventilation in buildings, - to support the TRIPS Waiver in the World Health Organisation to open up patents on covid vaccines and facilitate technology and know-how transfer, to ensure equal access worldwide, thus avoiding possible variants; - to fully respect the privacy law and address the conflict of interest in the Data Protection Authority." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mmes Kathleen Depoorter, Catherine Fonck, Dominiek Sneppe et Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Considering that the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is a reality that places considerable pressure on health care in our country; Whereas the medical staff is exhausted and their morale is undermined by the new overload of the healthcare system and the threat of dismissal of their unvaccinated members; - Whereas general practitioners are saturated as a result of the many demands and uncertainties of citizens; - Considering that laboratories have increasing difficulties in treating the numerous tests for Covid-19; - Whereas contact tracing centres are unable to contact all confirmed positive cases and, therefore, to break the chains of contamination; - Whereas workers still suffer a loss of income when they are required to observe about 40 years of age; - Whereas effective ventilation is an important element in the prevention of contamination; asks the government - to work to upgrade all health-care workers rather than threaten them with layoffs; - to strengthen the first line of our health care system on a structural basis; - increase testing capacity and provide the population with cheaper and faster tests available; - to strengthen the follow-up of contacts and to integrate it into the first line of care; - to ensure the full maintenance of income during quarantine periods in order to ensure compliance with isolation measures; - to take measures to promote ventilation in buildings; - to support the call for derogation from the TRIPS Agreement within the World Health Organization to lift patents on covid vaccines and to facilitate the transfer of technologies and know-how, to ensure equal access to them throughout the world and, in so doing, to prevent the emergence of possible variants; - to respect in all respects the law on the protection of privacy and to deal with the conflict of interest within the Data Protection Authority." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mrs Séverine de Laveleye, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Maggie De Block. A simple motion was tabled by Melissa Depraetere, and Séverine de Laveleye, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf and Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Maggie De Block. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u33	Madam President, the majority asked for urgency for the vote on the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u34	Madam Minister, there has been a lot of discussion over the last few months about the government's wish for a core exit. That nuclear trip must come at all costs for your party, but people are right to be very concerned about it. Although, according to the government agreement, security of supply, affordability and sustainability are key elements, they seem to the government to be subordinate to the core step you absolutely want. There are, after all, several reasons why the core exit should not be carried out. I have listened to the various governmental parties lately and I can only see that they too are asking questions about replacing nuclear power stations with mainly old and new power stations. The coalition agreement itself indicated that there were concerns about security of supply and energy prices. In addition, you want to spend hundreds of millions of euros a year to realize the core exit, while at the same time you will of course also pump a lot of CO2 into the air. Understand who can understand. Let us be honest: a stable energy supply at an affordable price is actually the best recipe for prosperity in our country. The absence of this is, of course, a very different matter and the consequences cannot be seen. Nuclear energy plays a very important role in this today and that awareness lives with a lot of people. It is not by chance that in a recent poll carried out in Flanders, two thirds of those interviewed indicated that they still have a role to play in the nuclear power stations after 2025. It is no coincidence that Fedustria, a sector organisation representing more than 2,000 companies, this week indicates the current energy policy as incomprehensible and reckless. The fact that the core exit would arrive in that way is questionable. In fact, I don't know anyone today, nobody who doesn't wonder whether that core trip is realistic and feasible. In any discussion on this issue, with each question, the government has so far rejected the message that the now notorious CRM auction would be awaited and that the decision would be taken in November 2021. That one paragraph of the coalition agreement has since been repeated, repeatedly and endlessly, in fact in order to limit the discussion within the government as much as possible. That paragraph was kept under control until the decision was taken. It was a way to contain the disagreements within the government. That recipe hasn't been so successful, I've noticed it lately. Today it is time to confess colour. Today is the time to decide, to debate that core step. This is the last plenary session before that date. This is the last plenary session of November 2021. So I ask you, Madam Secretary, to put your cards on the table. Will you be able to guarantee that the power supply will be assured when the nuclear power plants could be shut down by 2025? Citizens, entrepreneurs and recently more and more energy companies are concerned about this. Some do so loudly and clearly in the newspapers of the last few days. Others do that in the walkways. Madam Minister, you have come to Parliament and you have said that you expected to be able to conclude capacity contracts in 2021 for about three quarters of the capacity we need by 2025. Last week we studied in detail what is in the figures. What happened? You have today at most 40% of the capacity required security through that auction. This means that more than 6,000 megawatts of capacity need to be committed. That is more than the total capacity of all our nuclear power plants combined. It is getting worse, Madam Minister, because of the two new power stations that are to come, we do not know today whether they will be able to deliver capacity. That is still very weakly put. I have asked you several times whether you can guarantee that capacity. Colleagues, I do not think the Minister can guarantee that capacity. That is why that question remains unanswered every time I ask them. The new plant in Vilvoorde has no licence. In fact, you said in committee that you do not assume that it will ever be granted. For the power station of Les Awires, in recent years the problem has always been that the Flemish government has been countering it, the professional applicants are initiating a procedure for the Council of State. So you're not sure about that either. You have indicated that capacity may still disappear in the future. You went for 2.3 gigawatts of new capacity. Today the question is how much capacity can you guarantee in 2025? I think asking the question is answering the question. In terms of security of supply, you play with worse cards each time. In the worst case scenario, by 2024, up to 8,000 megawatts of new capacity will have to be auctioned, one year before you consider the last nuclear power plant to be closed. It is therefore logical for majority and opposition parties to ask questions about this. It is also a fault line that runs right through the government. In a normal country, you would propose or propose solutions to ensure that the necessary capacity is available. Of course, you have to deal wisely with the electricity supply in this country, with the budgets of citizens and businesses. The only thing we hear from you, however, is that you do not want to anticipate things. At the time, you yourself referred to this as a very unsatisfactory answer in committee. Madam Minister, I think that industry is going to get the hang of it when it talks about a reckless energy policy when nothing happens. Every citizen has to start worrying today about 2025, especially if you do not guarantee in any way that the light will continue to burn. In this context, which investor is willing to invest in this country? Who wants to create jobs like that here? That's all happening because of the trophy of the core exit. The government announced that you would take a decision in November 2021 and take appropriate measures, such as keeping the latest nuclear power plants open. You would do that when there was an unexpected problem with security of supply. Now then, I assume it was not in your expectations that you had no certainty about new gas plants. You announced in Parliament that three quarters of the necessary capacity will be auctioned in 2021, and I assume you also did not expect to be able to record just a quarter of the necessary capacity. That is why we have some questions to ask. Madam Secretary, where is the report on security of supply and energy prices that was announced? Will that be delivered before the end of this month? Clock's ticking. Secondly, when does this government decide on the core exit? Is that before the end of the month? If that is not the case, when will you make that decision? The time to do so is very short. Where are you today? When will you finally decide? The date you have mentioned to date seems no longer feasible. Thirdly, what solution do you have to deal with this obvious problem of security of supply? Will you again today opt for very unsatisfactory answers to Parliament? Let's hope not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u35	Madam Secretary, it is now D-day, the moment when the government must confess to extending or not extending the lifespan of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. The coalition agreement clearly stated that the choice would be made this month and a great deal has already been said about it in the past year. We now know the results of the CRM auction, the capacity of which is not really clear or certain today, given the refused permit for the gas plant in Vilvoorde. But the greens persist in anger. 'Cause they seem angry. Their dogmatic aversion to nuclear energy cannot be ignored. Any rational argument about nuclear energy must immediately disappear in the goat wool socks of the green ministers. The two nuclear power plants were provided as a stick behind the door, not to keep that stick for when it would be necessary, but to throw it far away, so that the advocates in the majority of a lifetime extension would run after it and they could be led around the green fairytale garden. Earlier this week, according to your climate minister Khattabi, it seemed that the two youngest nuclear power stations will also close their doors. However, as Minister for Energy, you stated earlier that the discussion would not be resolved until the government was able to take note of the report which has not yet been made public but was promised this month, and that you have, of course, already been able to see it. I haven't seen a report yet, but apparently your colleague can't handle her happiness, which would make her want to scream it out of rooftops right now, because she loves renewable energy oh so much. However, what is threatening to make up for this euphoria, Madam Minister, is just the question. There are a number of other questions, namely how we will be able to ensure energy independence in the future, how we will deal with the instability of sun and wind, how an affordable energy price can be guaranteed, how you deal with the uncertain gas capacity in Vilvoorde and why the government is subsidising fancy aircraft engines to generate energy In short, you still have a lot to explain to the outside world. Meanwhile, in Europe, I am seeing and hearing an alliance of ten countries that is determinedly opting for nuclear energy and will even be proud of it in the future, because nuclear energy is carbon-neutral and can contribute to decarbonisation. They even want, in my view, quite rightly, nuclear energy to be regarded as green energy. I have repeatedly asked the Vivaldi Ministers about this, even yesterday, but they refuse to give a ruling on the taxonomy of nuclear energy. In Britain, I hear similar signals from Boris Johnson. The use of SMRs, the small affordable nuclear carbon-free and barely waste-producing reactors, is also applauded by leading scientists at home and abroad. Where is this country, which has always been the pioneer in nuclear energy? Here it remains deafeningly silent. The vivaldi proponents of a lifetime extension have been chased into their basket. Colleagues, am I saying that the two latest nuclear reactors alone will solve the problems of security of supply? I'm not doing that at all. However, these two reactors would make us need less gas capacity. Mrs Van der Straeten, the last week of November has entered. What did the government decide in the end? Will the life of the two youngest nuclear power plants be extended or not? What do you do with the uncertain gas capacity and with the affordability of the energy bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u36	Madam Secretary, the results of the first CRM auction are well known. Electrabel will receive EUR 900 million in grants for the construction of two new gas plants. You also said the auction was a success for that reason. Last time I spoke about the taboos in Belgian energy policy. I have also heard previous speakers talk about energy independence. However, that is quatsch, because for energy in our country we are simply totally dependent on multinational Electrabel. Apparently, that's not a problem for anyone here. In each scenario, Electrabel passes along the cash register, both on a core exit and on no core exit. The N-VA has been running into the nuclear trip for months, but what I never hear the party talking about is the fact that Electrabel is also asking a lot of money for keeping the power stations open for longer, which it so much wants. According to Electrabel, keeping Objective 4 and Tihange 3 open for longer costs a billion euros. That's an estimate of a year ago. In the meantime, given the tight timing, that will be a lot more. Electrabel therefore always wins, even if the life of the power stations would be extended. That's gonna cost money, too. However, this government, like the previous governments, dares not touch Electrabel's usury gains, while energy prices are falling apart. With the liberalisation of the energy sector, we have actually lost almost every democratic control over energy production. That is the fundamental problem that we have completely out of our hands. So the question is not whether the light will go out or not, the light will continue to burn, even without new gas plants. The fundamental question we need to ask ourselves is whether we are finally taking over the energy transition ourselves. Are we working on the planned, effective and social development of a sustainable energy system, or are we just leaving it to the profit-making of the large multinationals? Minister, within the government, there is also another taboo. This taboo is the future of workers in the sector, safeguarding their employment, wages and working conditions. You always send out the hot potato! Minister, I have already asked you about this three times. You refer Minister Dermagne each time and he is silent in all languages. Both in his policy note and in his sub-committee on nuclear safety, he did not answer any questions on the subject. Yet these questions are not just from the opposition. All the parties in the government questioned him about this. They also questioned you since you were there personally with Mr. Dermagne and Mrs. Verlinden. None of you answered. Even to the pressing question of his party comrade from the district of Huy-Waremme, Minister Dermagne did not answer anything at all. It's still strong with coffee! Personally, I find this quite scandalous. All of you here, the seven parties of the majority, decide to shut down five or seven nuclear power plants - five will shut down anyway - and you are not in a position to say what is going to happen to the workers, while the first power plant has already to close in less than a year. Today, there is absolutely no certainty for the 7,000 workers at nuclear power plants and their subcontractors. In the event of a complete closure, the Engie Group has just committed itself to keeping the jobs of its own workers until 2027, not its subcontractors. Minister, my main question concerns the obligations that the government will impose on Electrabel in terms of job guarantees and the maintenance of wage and working conditions. Another question that arises is who will finance this. As we have already said in the past, I repeat here that Electrabel has always earned and earned usurious profits. It must therefore be the guarantor of the maintenance of jobs and of its workers. Minister, again this morning, the trade unions carried out a joint action in Tihange. I had already warned you in committee that the workers would not be allowed to do so. And you, as a government, are repeating in a loop that we need a socially just transition. Of course, the PTB is very much in favour of a socially just transition. The exit of nuclear power will be an important test because, if you want a socially just transition by dropping 7,000 workers, it cannot be said that it is "socially just". Workers must be protected. I conclude my speech with four questions which have already been asked in part by colleagues. The government agreement mentions, in November 2022, an assessment of the impact of nuclear exit on security of supply and energy prices. Has this study already been completed? What's she saying? When will you make a final decision on the complete exit of nuclear power? But above all, what are the guarantees for the 7,000 workers in the sector? When will they finally get the assurances they ask for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u37	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions, which are, by the way, the same as the previous ones. Some of the answers will also be the same. Some answers will be more specific, others will come later. It's all in good time, ladies and gentlemen. It's not because things have to follow, that nothing has happened in the past year. On the contrary, last year the whole government and various ministers have worked hard on the three main pillars of energy policy, namely affordability, security of supply and sustainability. In the questions asked there is a rather loose passage. That is put aside rather easily and little attention is paid to it. That is why I shall repeat it again. Firstly, there is affordability. In the recent budget, we have beaten off the energy standard. We discussed this in committee and in plenary. Tomorrow, the programme law will be on the government table at second reading. It will also be discussed in Parliament in two weeks' time. The energy standard was worked out with Minister of Finance Van Peteghem. It is the biggest structural reform on the invoice ever, which cuts that cost increases are automatically passed on to the invoice. In the budgetary negotiations it was decided to extend the social tariff after the government expanded it earlier. We have also decided to grant a winter discount in the context of high energy prices to those who need it most. The total amount involved is EUR 760 million. So please do not tell me that the government has no regard for the affordability of energy. Secondly, as far as security of supply is concerned, everyone in the hemisphere agrees that we have a problem in our country, because the nuclear power stations are closing down. That was also confirmed during the budget negotiations. Five nuclear power plants are closing and we will decide on the last two. Everyone agreed that we need replacement and will also be in the form of gas plants. Over the last 12 months, we have received the whole support mechanism, the investment mechanism up and running. We have done so in less than a year, and that was possible because, Mr Wollants, you too have been involved in this. Ensuring energy supplies in our country is not a story of classical majority and opposition, but a story of co-thinking and working together. I have said this several times and I keep repeating it. Thirdly, there is the pillar of sustainability. It is a bit easy and quick to keep pointing to the national emissions of the gas plants - I will come back to that - not to look at all the steps that have been taken in the past year. I refer to the projects in the relance plan, the development of hydrogen backbone, the innovation on the K molecule, which will be launched at the beginning of next year, and the development of energy infrastructure at sea, together amounting to EUR 255 million. Then there is the government's transition plan, which was laid down during the budget negotiations, the import infrastructure for hydrogen, green steel, the hydrogen testing facility, the social tariff for green heat and a tripled capacity of wind energy at sea, the second step in achieving the Triton cable between Belgium and Denmark with the signing of the agreement the day before yesterday by myself, my Danish colleague and the grid operators, and the publication not so long ago of the first federal hydrogen strategy and the first federal hydrogen vision. The common thread is investment in the future in line with the path set out to 100% renewable energy, which provides a framework for industry, for example investment in infrastructure to bring hydrogen into the industrial clusters, and what provides our citizens with a solid basis, because they have access to green electricity in the form of North Sea flow for every green family. I have taken the time to bring those investments back to the fore, Mr De Roover, perhaps you will, because they are proof of efforts made by the entire government. This deserves more attention than what has been spent on it so far. Then I come to the one paragraph in the coalition agreement. I read it out: "A full report on the selected projects will be submitted to the government at the end of November 2021 after the auction. In particular, this report examines security of supply and the impact on electricity prices." The technical discussions for that voluminous report, which is under way, are ongoing. Today it is 25 November and by the end of the month the report will be ready, after which it will be submitted to the government. The questions that have been decided and what will follow are premature today. I'm implementing the coalition agreement. I have committed myself in committee to come to the committee to talk about the same report, but today we are not pushing the horse in front of the cart. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. You know the main elements of the report. You also know the results of the auction with which we are working. It is not the first time we have discussed this. The average price in the auction is 31,672 euros per megawatt per year. The price of the selected new projects thus remains well below the maximum price of 75,000 euros per megawatt per year. As regards the impact on energy prices, several studies have demonstrated and come to the same conclusion that the wholesale price is either limited or less depending on a complete or incomplete core exit than on a scenario where two nuclear power plants remain open. That has everything to do with the way the electricity price is set. The marginal power station, i.e. the most expensive form of energy addressed at the time, determines the price. This will usually be a gas power station after the nuclear exit, sometimes another fossil power station in our country or in neighbouring countries, as it is today. That does not change if two nuclear power stations remain open, because even then it is the fossil power stations that determine the price. Of course, the electricity price is going to rise or decrease on a core trip, but also on a lifespan extension. We now see this in practice at historically high prices. Nuclear power stations are running completely and electricity prices are also rising and are not being reduced because our nuclear power plants are running. No, a high gas price now has nothing to do with the core exit within five years. Then I come to the issue of security of supply. The auction was successful. You may not be satisfied with the result, but the result is there and it was successful. This is a serious matter and not a spectacle policy, ladies and gentlemen, where reality must not be reduced and where it is necessary to stick to the facts. Mr Wollants, I know that you say things in plenary that sometimes sound a little different in the coffee room. Let's take the time to dot the i's. I'll start with CO2 emissions. No, CO2 emissions are not rising, because that is within the ETS. I'm declaring myself. Power plants are covered by the ETS. Therefore, greenhouse gas emissions from the electricity sector cannot and cannot be viewed at national level. Additional gas plants in Belgium have no impact on the objectives of the ETS and no impact on achieving those objectives. The ETS system has been in place since 1 January 2005 for industrial installations and power plants with a thermal input of more than 20 megawatts. It concerns 11,000 installations in the European Union that are covered by the ETS and together account for 41% of European greenhouse gas emissions. Electricity production is without exception covered by the ETS and is not eligible for a free allocation of allowances, unlike some other industrial branches where companies have to compete with companies in the rest of the world where there is no equivalent climate pricing in force. In the framework of Fit for 55, the European Commission has made a proposal to revise the ETS. In order to achieve this, the Commission proposes a one-off reduction of the total emission ceiling of 117 million allowances by 2030 for emissions from the current ETS sectors. According to the functioning of the market, polluting companies will have to adapt or phase out their activities. For the electricity sector, this means that plants that emit a lot of CO2 in production will put their thumbs on plants that emit less CO2. Coal plants lose to more efficient installations, such as gas plants, and will be the first to disappear from the market thanks to the ETS. A producer who generates electricity through wind and sun does not emit CO2 and therefore does not need to buy emission allowances. In the long term renewable energy, in other words, will also compete on gas from the market unless they succeed in fully greening. If climate policy is to be taken seriously, it is therefore essential not to undermine the ETS. Some governments in our country argue that the European Union should be able to include a large amount of allowances that are excess and would be cancelled. The result is that the European emission ceiling will be increased and so more emissions may be emitted than is currently planned. So, Mr Wollants, it is important to be consistent. A long part of the interview dealt with the fact that the selected projects cover only less than half of the required capacity. Frankly, Mr Wollants, when I heard that, my clog broke when I actually read that in the text of your speech that was submitted. In this auction, more than half of the necessary new capacity was contracted. The rest is existing capacity, which has not yet given a price, but will do so in the T-1. The CRM mechanism is a mechanism on top of the energy-only market. Parties that do not have a missing money or do not want the CRM obligations are not obliged to participate, as that would only make the mechanism more expensive. The energy market has been liberalised. If we force all existing companies to participate, then we go the other way, because then we pay more than we want. Mr Wollants, with regard to the new capacity, it is good to look into my own heart, with which I paraphrase a well-known poem. Thanks to your amendment on the 200 hours and for the capacity explicitly reserved for the T-1 auction, part of the new capacity is only contracted in T-1. The law contains an article for which you have found a majority in the Chamber, but you accuse this government of having set up the CRM mechanism on the basis of what is prescribed by the law. That is double standards and two weights, Mr Wollants, but it is not correct. Then I would like to turn to employment, Mr Warmoes. You are quite right that this government and the regional governments should be working today on the fate, future and career of the people working in the nuclear power stations today, so that they do not stand in the cold. That is why the initiatives we have taken must prepare for economic change. One of the reasons why we set up this task force, together with our colleagues Pierre-Yves Dermagne and Annelies Verlinden, was to develop the economic sector behind the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. The maintenance of expertise and its export is therefore one of the projects in the relay plan, accounting for 25 million euros. We have, by the way, brought the industrial players together in a round table to share knowledge. It looked at what the many SMEs in this country that have today's high-tech expertise, for example in the field of decontamination, but also for lifting equipment, for example the family company Sarens, known from the cranes, mean and can still mean today in the context of decommissioning. The aim is not only to ensure that decommissioning is done in a safe way, but also to ensure that it is done in a socially responsible way. We need to investigate to what extent this decommissioning can also create new jobs, at ENGIE Electrabel itself but also at the subcontractors, including the SMEs we already have today, who are also just family businesses in our country today and which we can also further support. In this way, this expertise can become an export product. No, Mr Warmoes, we are not dropping the workers. We are in the process of creating the future, including for those people. Yes, of course we will ensure that the operator as an employer will fulfil his obligations. It is the largest, most expensive and most delicate shipyard in the history of our country. She guarantees employment for decades and a thousand jobs. We have chosen to go further in this direction. Since 2003, 6.570 days and 936 weeks have elapsed. This has put us in a situation where unpleasant decisions are needed, such as the need for gas plants for a short time. There will still be unpleasant decisions, such as how we will deal with the financing of nuclear waste and a policy on the management of that waste for hundreds of thousands of years. These are also dossiers that have perhaps been handled too little over the past 18 years, but which now deserve our full attention. Both Mr Wollants and Mr Van Lommel advocate the complete extension of 2 gigawatts nuclear. Today we still have to solve the disadvantages of that choice. We must also dare to name this: what happens to the waste, the costs, the place. What should we do with that? Ten days ago, the world came together in Glasgow to keep Paris' ambition alive:Keeping 1.5°C Alive. In my domain, that means massively switching to renewable energy. By 2050, we want to achieve climate neutrality. That is why we need to think and act in the long term in the short term. We must act for the future and not necessarily stick in the recipes of the past. You know my motto: move forward without drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u38	Madam President, Minister, you just gave me your motto again. For me it was relatively much drama and relatively little answer. I have asked you very clear questions about the way the route continues. Despite the fact that you and the Prime Minister have said in every possible discussion, time and time again and to every press magnate who wanted to hear it, that you were going to decide on those two last nuclear power stations in November 2021, you are now saying that you never said that, that you never promised to do so. You ask me where I would have read somewhere that you would have said you would have decided in November 2021. You are now saying that you will only have to deliver a report in November 2021, and it is even good if you make a decision on this in February 2024, that it will then be in accordance with the government agreement. Madam Secretary, that is not what you have said in recent months. That's not what you told everyone. That is not what was put forward here. I am therefore a little disappointed that you have raised a number of issues here and taken the opportunity to explain your entire policy paper again. We had already heard that. However, you did not answer the question of what you will really do in terms of security of supply. You have said that everything will come in time, that it will come in time. Madam Minister, security of supply is a problem that you need to address now, not next month, not in three months, and certainly not in February 2024. In that respect, of course, there is your straw of every day. You are again talking about the ETS but forget to mention that it is no longer an absolute ceiling. You refer to the placement of windmills at sea as a climate measure, which, according to the same ETS, has no effect, if I may continue your reasoning. We all know, however, that this is not the way it is. You are using the drama of the House to place it in that way. You point out to me that it is my own fault that so much should be auctioned in 2024. That measure, on which you were very satisfied for a few weeks and which was intended to ensure that we do not have to build and subsidise new gas plants for those last 200 hours, is only logical to me. That's about 1.4 gigawatts. What you want to auction in 2024 and about which you have no certainty, is about 6.4 to 8 gigawatts. Madam Secretary, that's what this is about. Now you come here to perform a performance, to cast that 1.4 gigawatt is the problem. However, it is all the other megawatts that are the problem for which you need to find a solution. Last week, you saw it as a very unsatisfactory answer. Today it is even more unsatisfactory. After all, the answer you are now sending to the outside world about security of supply, about which so many people are concerned, about which companies are calling the alarm bells and where families are wondering whether there will be enough power in 2025, was that everything would happen in its time and that you would see. When it comes, it comes. Madam Minister, this is not a responsible way of dealing with energy policy. We spoke earlier about reckless energy policy. You are playing with security of supply and you are pushing it backwards into the path until there may be an agreement in this semi-coherent government. However, no one is waiting for that. If you have to decide on that unexpected issue about security of supply it will move to infinity not help you much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u39	Madam Secretary, I can only say that you are not delivering anything today. When I hear you so busy, I can only conclude two things. Either you lead to amnesia, or you walk with the truth. This is how you dishonor the many hours we have debated. You are talking about a spectacle in this Parliament. Madam Minister, I am very serious here today, because I cannot accept that the energy supply of the future is determined by learner-wizards. By 2050 the energy needs will double and if you think we can fill them with sun and wind, I tell you, "Make the geese wise." Madam Minister, during the night sitting you accused me of simplism, as you also blame the Fleming who is not part of your story for being a simplist because you seem to know it all better. It seems very simple to you that carbon-free nuclear energy should make way for CO2-emitting gas plants. ETS or not, they emit more CO2. I also recall from an earlier reply from you in the context of technology neutrality that you did not know that the CRM auction would offer gas power stations. It seems normal to you that Engie Electrabel beckoned for your CRM subsidies, which meant that it wanted to drop nuclear power like a brick. We should not call it subsidies from you, but in practice they are. It is also easy for you to take such a long time and tangle around that the operator of the nuclear power plants is either pulling the plug or perhaps pretending to do so. It is also simple for you that we all depend on abroad because sun and wind are unpredictable, making you pump billions into submarine cables. You also think it is normal that you have deceived your coalition partners to slyly push through your green agenda. Your club is not united on the core trip, but I'm telling you it's not all that simple. I do not understand why the N-VA is coming here today to blow the sky out of the sky, when, in the previous legislature, they did not take the necessary steps together with then Minister Marghem of MR to prepare for an extension of the life of the nuclear power plants. Minister Van der Straeten, not only the families, but also the companies ask themselves a lot of questions about your policy. That says enough, because your dogmatic aversion to nuclear energy will cost the Flame if you are punished in 2024 and will at that time have done irreparable damage. Vivaldi in no way meets the three essential core values that energy policy should have. That is, first of all, affordability. With your gas subsidy policy and massive imports, you will have no control over energy prices. Secondly, reliability. With sun and wind alone, we will not have electricity when we need it. Thirdly, environmental promotion. You let the CO2 blow into the air, with which you come here to do greenwashing, while asking the Fleming to be more holy than the Pope. What can be done in other countries is clearly not possible here. We're missing an appointment with history. The closure of the nuclear power plant is an historic mistake. Contrary to what you expect, you will not be praised with a statue for this policy, but you will go into history as the minister who left the Flemings in the cold and had dark times. That's my policy. That is why I am asking you today to extend the two youngest nuclear power plants and also to start building small, modular and carbon-neutral nuclear reactors, within an energy mix in which renewable energy also has a place. Our energy should be a basic right for everyone (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u40	Madam Minister, I have not yet referred to the question of affordability, but I would like to talk about it now. You say the government is working on it. You refer to the extension of the social tariff. That is, of course, a good thing, and we supported it. However, you forget to mention that the social rate itself has increased enormously, by more than EUR 300 since the beginning of the year. The government is paying 80 euros against that. That is totally inadequate to protect even the poorest. You know that 20% of the population gets a social rate. For the other 80% there is virtually nothing from the government. I was talking about employment. I'm glad because you said I was absolutely right. You also said that we are not dropping the workers, not even the subcontractors. That is the government's commitment. Furthermore, your answer was very vague. You mentioned economic change and the maintenance of expertise. My colleagues here have experience of this. Gaby Colebunders has been through Ford's change. Roberto D'Amico has experienced the change of Caterpillar. I can assure you that a lot is often promised, but in reality some of the people fall out of the boat and that the bilan is usually not so good. It's better to keep a job that's there. A bird in the hand is better than ten in the sky. You are always talking about high-tech know-how. Of course there is in the sector, but you forget that there are many non-high-tech jobs in the sector. Just think about the monitoring, the maintenance of everything that is not nuclear, there is also a lot of non-nuclear cleaning and so on in a nuclear power plant. What about all these people? That's not what you're talking about. You want to set up an export sector. That is quite vague again, as if we are the only ones on the market who are going to conquer the world market. It's not that simple. It's probably good to work on, but it's also a bird in the sky. You also say that the operator must comply with his obligations, but I would like to know how you see that? What obligations vis-à-vis their own employees? What obligations vis-à-vis subcontractors? I refer again to Mr Colebunders. There has been an enormous struggle at Ford to see something happen for the subcontractors, which is anything but obvious. What concerns me in your speech is what you started with, namely everything in good time. That's not good for two reasons. If you let everything go, you will not lose that expertise and knowledge. The engineers and the high-tech staff may get offers from home or abroad and they will find a job. You'll have lost it. As a reminder, the first plant closes in October 2022 if I am correct. In less than a year, the first closure is already a fact. Some of the people working there may even have left. Secondly, all in good time, tell that to the people who have to earn their living, pay off a loan or have children at university. People want guarantees now. We therefore call on the government to clarify matters now. I have noted the intention well, but it needs to be made concrete. People need to know where they stand and what they can count on when the first power station closes next year, followed by the remaining power stations in subsequent years. In that sense, I will table a motion of recommendation to encourage you to do so, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u41	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Bert Wollants, Mr Reccino Van Lommel and Mr Thierry Warmoes and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - heard the various replies from the Minister of Energy at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate Policy on 16 November 2021; - heard the comments made by Chris Peeters, CEO of Elia at the hearing on the outcome of the capacity mechanism on 16 November 2021; - having regard to the coalition agreement which states that it is crucial to maintain security of supply, sustainability and affordability in the field of energy; - having regard to the need to draw up a report by the end of November 2021 on the impact of the capacity auction and the associated key exit on security of supply and the impact on electricity prices; - having regard to the fact that, in the event of an unexpected supply security problem, appropriate measures are being taken by the Government, such as the adaptation of the exit calendar in terms of keeping 2 GW in service to nuclear power stations; - having regard to the fact that only 4,4 GW was allocated in the T-4 auction of 2021 compared to the initial plan of approx. 7,3 GW of capacity and 6,4 GW or more should be auctioned at only 1 year before closing the last nuclear power plants according to the exit calendar; - having regard to the fact that for approx. 1.6 GW of the allocated capacity there is no certainty as to the maintenance of the necessary permits, whereby one of the two new gas plants was definitively refused the licence and a procedure for the Council of State was announced by the professional applicants for the other gas plant; - having regard to the fact that Elia's CEO indicated that in the event that the capacity providers fail to provide this capacity under the capacity contract, this capacity should in the worst case be auctioned further in 2024; - whereas one year before the closing of the last nuclear power station it is necessary to auction 8 GW of capacity, which is higher than the total nuclear park currently supplying this country with electricity; - having regard to the fact that no guarantee of security of supply can be provided because, at best, only 40% of the necessary capacity has already been acquired and that the procedures for the Council of State and the total absence of an environmental permit can result in only one quarter of the necessary capacity remaining; - having regard to the statement by the Minister for Energy that, in addition to the planned new gas plant in Vilvoorde, other capacity may be lost and that it does not assume that Vilvoorde's permit will ever be granted; - having regard also to the Minister's statement that it cannot anticipate possible solutions to meet this shortage of capacity and that it considers this to be a very unsatisfactory response to Parliament; - whereas all of these cases lead to very high uncertainty about the supply of electricity and cannot be considered to be different from an unexpected security of supply problem as set out in the coalition agreement; - having regard to Fedustria's recent appeal as the mouthpiece of the timber and textile industry, which calls the core exit incomprehensible and reckless; - having regard to the fact that the Government has repeatedly announced that it will decide in November 2021 on the possible adaptation of the core exit calendar; asks the government - deliver the announced report on security of supply and price impact of the auction and the key exit to Parliament by the end of November; - to clarify the security of supply solutions identified, including the adaptation of the core exit calendar, and to take a decision on this before the end of November." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr Bert Wollants, Reccino Van Lommel and Thierry Warmoes and the response of the Minister of Energy, - having heard the various replies of the Minister of Energy at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate of 16 November 2021; - having heard the explanations of Chris Peeters, CEO of Elia, at the hearing on 16 November 2021 on the results of the capacity mechanism; - having regard to the government agreement which states that it is essential to continue to guarantee security of supply, sustainability and affordable energy costs; - in view of the fact that for this purpose a report was to be drawn up at the end of November 2021 on the effects on security of supply of the auctioning of capacity, on the one hand, and the exit of nuclear power, on the other, and on the impact on electricity prices; - in view of the fact that if this report shows an unexpected problem of security of supply, the government will take appropriate measures, such as adjusting the exit schedule for the maintenance of 2 GW of nuclear energy; - in view of the fact that, in the context of the T-4 auction of 2021, only 4.4 GW were allocated, whereas the original plan planned to shut down a capacity of approximately 7.3 GW, and therefore at least 6.4 GW will have to be auctioned in only one year before the closing of the last nuclear power plants according to the exit schedule; - in view of the fact that, for approximately 1.6 GW of the allocated capacity, there is no certainty as to the continuation of the necessary authorisations, since the authorisation for one of the two new gas-fired power stations has been definitively refused and the appellants against the other gas-fired power plant have announced that they would introduce a procedure before the Council of State; - in view of the fact that Elia's CEO has indicated that if capacity suppliers are therefore unable to provide this capacity in accordance with the capacity contract, the capacity contract will, in the worst case, have to be auctioned in 2024; - Whereas one year before the closure of the last nuclear power plant, a capacity of 8 GW will therefore still have to be auctioned, a capacity greater than that of the total nuclear power plant which currently supplies the country with electricity; - in view of the fact that, as a result, no guarantee of security of supply can be offered since, at best, only 40% of the necessary capacity is already acquired and that proceedings before the Council of State and the total absence of environmental permits can ensure that only a quarter of the necessary capacity remains; - having regard to the statement by the Minister of Energy that, in addition to the new gas plant in Vilvorde, other capacities could also disappear and that it does not expect the Vilvorde licence to be granted one day; - also having regard to the Minister's statement that she cannot anticipate solutions that would make up for this capacity shortage and that she herself considers that she is only providing a very unsatisfactory response to Parliament; - Whereas all these factors lead to a very high degree of insecurity in the supply of electricity and there is nothing more to add than an unexpected security of supply problem as mentioned in the government agreement; - having regard to the recent appeal by Fedustria, spokesman for the textile and wood industry, describing the release of the incomprehensible and unthinkable nuclear industry; - in view of the fact that the government has repeatedly announced that it will decide in November 2021 on the possible adjustment of the nuclear exit schedule; asks the government - to provide Parliament, before the end of November, with the report announced on security of supply and the impact on prices of auctions and exits of nuclear power; - to clarify the inventory of security of supply solutions, including the adjustment of the nuclear exit schedule, and to take a decision thereon before the end of November." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Thierry Warmoes and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Bert Wollants, Mr Reccino Van Lommel and Mr Thierry Warmoes and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - whereas at least five of the seven nuclear power stations are closed by 2025; - whereas the first of these (Objective 3) closes already in October 2022, - whereas approximately 2000 Electrabel employees are employed in the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants and approximately 5000 employees are involved in the subcontractors; - having regard to the sectoral agreement on the stability of employment of 1962; - whereas the energy sector workers (Paritair Committee 326) have enforced good wage and working conditions through years of struggle; - having regard to Article 10 of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production (the Nuclear Roadmap Act), which imposes a legal obligation to draw up a social assistance plan; asks the government - to protect the employment of all workers of the nuclear power plants and their subcontractors, while maintaining their wage and working conditions, inter alia, by maximising the insourcing of activities and reorienting those concerned within Electrabel; - to oblige nuclear power plant operators to set aside sufficient financial resources for the maintenance and protection of employment; - to explore the possibility of converting the sites of Doel and Tihange to energy hubs, as happened with the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant in the US." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Thierry Warmoes and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr Bert Wollants, Reccino Van Lommel and Thierry Warmoes and the response of the Minister of Energy, Whereas at least five of the seven nuclear power plants will close by 2025 at the latest; - Whereas the first of them (Doel 3) will close as early as October 2022; - Whereas around 2 000 employees of Electrabel work in the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants and around 5 000 people work with subcontractors; - Whereas the sectoral agreement on employment stability of 1962; - Whereas workers in the energy sector (Joint Committee 326) have achieved good wage and working conditions after many years of struggle; Whereas Article 10 of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear energy for the purpose of industrial production of electricity (the Nuclear Exit Act) establishes a legal obligation to draw up a social support plan; asks the government - to protect the employment of all workers in nuclear power plants and their subcontractors, by maintaining their wage and working conditions with the help of, inter alia, maximum internalisation of the activities and reorientation of the persons concerned within Electrabel; - make operators of nuclear power plants subject to the obligation to provide sufficient financial resources for the maintenance and protection of employment; - to examine the possibility of converting the Doel and Tihange sites into energy poles, like the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant in the United States." A simple motion was tabled by Laurence Hennuy, Maggie De Block and Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf and Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Laurence H annoyance, Maggie De Block and Melissa Depraetere and MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u42	Madam Chair, the majority is asking for urgency in voting on the motion outright.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u43	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various urgent provisions in the field of health, No. 2320/1. The Government has requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various urgent health provisions, No. 2320/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u44	Madam President, the draft law with No. 2320 is a comprehensive design and is characterised by a wide variety of provisions. The scope of the design is linked to a long period of ongoing cases that preceded and followed the 2019 elections. Several provisions were thus long in preparation in the administrations. The Government requests urgency for the draft, as it contains provisions which it wishes to bring into force by 1 January at the latest. These include, for example, measures aimed at administrative simplification, measures relating to access to care, such as the lifting of the ban on the third-payer scheme, for which both RIZIV and the care providers must prepare, an earlier promised increase in the subsidy for the patient umbrella for rare diseases, RaDiOrg, which the organisation already wants to benefit from this year, and the necessary provisions to allow for consolidation in the mutualist sector, which will take place on 1 January. These are just a few examples. The draft has already been examined by the Committee on Health. A thorough discussion is therefore assured. I thank you in advance for approving the urgency requested by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u45	Madam President, the current government has been exaggerating the principle of urgency for weeks. Almost week after week, we must warn against this. However, this beats everything. The document for which urgency is requested is 1,850 pages thick. It is 1,850 pages thick and the urgency is called for so that, according to the government, it could be discussed seriously. This is how she spits in the face of Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, you've been given the shitty job of defending the urgency here. I don't envy you that task. I will not deny that the document contains elements that are urgent, but not 1,850 pages. The fact that urgent measures are being carried out here in a huge document to allow Parliament to decide on such a package in a totally irresponsible way is far beyond the limit of decency. I asked at the Conference of Presidents that the government should make a distinction between the urgent and not urgent issues and put them separately. In that case, they could have been treated in a serious way and we would have supported urgency. Here the government is performing an embarrassing spectacle. What has been done for weeks, namely total erosion of the principle of urgency, is an unlikely low point here. I would like to call on the members of the majority not to go into this indecent question of urgency purely from a fundamental parliamentary reflex. You will not be surprised that my group will set an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u46	The Vlaams Belang is against, the MR is for, the Open Vld is for, DéFI is no longer in the room, Ecolo-Groen is for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u47	Madam President, when we ask for urgency, we need to know what we are asking for urgency. When it comes to various proposals like these, you have to choose. What's urgent? Here it is a tote and my group will not give urgency to this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u48	It's recorded. The PS is for, Vooruit is for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u49	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various provisions in the field of judicial organization and the introduction of the Road Safety Prosecutor's Office, No. 2328/1. The Government also asked for an urgent declaration of urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various provisions relating to judicial organisation and establishing the road safety authority, No. 2328/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u50	Madam President, on 10 November 2021, the Council of Ministers decided to request the urgency of this draft law in accordance with Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure. On Monday 26 July 2021, an opinion was requested from the Council of State in accordance with Article 84, § 1, 1st paragraph, point 2 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State. It was not until 22 October 2021 that we received the opinion of the Council of State. Failure to respect the 30-day deadline is the basis for the urgency of the draft law. The draft law contains certain provisions that are crucial in the context of the planned strengthening of the judicial system, which need to be taken urgently. These include the legal anchoring of the function of criminologist, the adjustment of the quotas for referenda and prosecutors and the creation of the road safety prosecutor. The function of criminologist is important in the context of the expansion of the family justice centers. They provide a multidisciplinary approach to domestic violence. Also in the context of the adapted forms of handling for each type of crime, the criminalologists play a crucial role. In concrete terms, it concerns the development of drug treatment rooms and multidisciplinary tailor-made work with an eye for the individual. The budgets for the recruitment of criminologists were subscribed to the additional resources for Justice. In order to achieve these recruitments in the short term, it is necessary that this function and the powers are enshrined in the Legal Code. As part of the strengthening of justice, we provide additional support for magistrates by lawyers. However, the current quotas have been reached within certain jurisdictions, which requires an adjustment of those quotas. Because the judicial order is groaning under the towering workload and a great backlog, it is necessary to recruit lawyers in the short term. Consequently, quotas should be adjusted rapidly. The establishment of the Public Prosecutor's Office for Road Safety also implies a strengthening of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This strengthening is necessary in order to cope with the significant increase in the number of cases in the short term. This increase is due to the phasing out of tolerances and quotas and the accelerated activation of section radars and other control bodies. These measures are part of an increase in the chances for road offenders to be taken, and in the fight for safer roads. By 2030, the goal is to halve the number of deaths in 2011 as a result of road accidents. In order to strengthen the Public Prosecutor's Office, additional profiles have been created for local prosecutors. But the greatest strengthening is the creation of the road safety prosecutor's office. This prosecutor's office will process about 80% of the files currently processed by the "Crossborder" stream. This will reduce the workload in the prosecutors' offices in the various districts, which will allow them to focus again on more serious offences. Since the average time for the recruitment of judicial personnel and magistrates is about six months, it is crucial to provide a legal basis for this new prosecutor's office as soon as possible. Appointment procedures cannot be initiated until there is a legal basis for this. In addition, in the notification of the budget conclave, it was also requested that the draft law on the road safety prosecutor's office be dealt with by Parliament and submitted to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u51	The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on measures to increase energy prices was introduced in 2021, No. 2332/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law on measures in the light of high energy prices in 2021, No. 2332/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u52	Madam President, in order to provide financial support to those most affected by the increase in gas and electricity prices in 2021, the draft law provides for a one-off additional financing of the Gas and Electricity Fund and the allocation of a one-off lump sum of EUR 80 to households receiving the social tariff on 30 September 2021. This draft law creates the necessary legal bases and changes for the processing of personal data to implement the measures. These measures were taken by the Government on 20 October in the context of the preparation of the multiannual budget 2022-2024. The budgetary burden of these measures will be borne by the additional VAT revenue of 2021 and should therefore be included in the budget of the year 2021. To this end, the measures and the corresponding Royal Decree should be in force before the end of this year. After that, there should be enough time to implement them before Christmas. The KB on the allocation of the one-off lump sum should be placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers by early December 2021 and submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u53	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u54	Mr Vandenput, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 2339/1 by Ms Kathleen Verhelst, Mr Maxime Prévot, Ms Florence Reuter, Mr Albert Vicaire, Mrs Leen Dierick and Melissa Depraetere and Mr Dieter Vanbesien amending the Law of 21 November 2021 amending the Law of 15 July 2016 implementing Regulation (EU) No. 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and laying down provisions on loans granted to tour operators for the reimbursement of vouchers issued in accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 on the reimbursement of cancelled package travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u55	Madam President, I would like to explain why we are asking for urgency. The State has granted loans to tour operators under the Law of 21 November 2021 to help them repay the outstanding coronavouchers to travellers. That law could only be published and therefore entered into force after the approval of the loan mechanism by the European Commission under State aid rules. The loan mechanism was finally approved by the European Commission, but the formal decision was taken later than expected. As a result, certain modalities and deadlines currently provided for by the law cannot be complied with. The Bill No. 2339/1 therefore adapts certain modalities and deadlines to allow for the practical implementation of the lending mechanism provided for by the law for the affected travel sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u56	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u57	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 194/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a motion of distrust was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Ms Melissa Depraetere and Ms Séverine de Laveleye and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 194/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Séverine de Laveleye and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u58	Yes 77 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u59	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 196/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Thierry Warmoes; - a simple motion was tabled by Laurence H annoyance and Melissa Depraetere. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 196/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Thierry Warmoes; - a simple motion was tabled by Laurence Hennuy and Melissa Depraetere. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u60	Yes 78 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u61	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Gaby Colebunders on Article 2.(2286/5) Vote on amendment No. 10 by Gaby Colebunders to Article 2.(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u62	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ellen Samyn cs to omit Article 3.(2286/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ellen Samyn cs to delete Article 3.(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u63	Yes 17 Yes No. 123 Abstentions 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Abstentions Totaal [[140]] Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Gaby Colebunders to omit Article 3.(2286/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Gaby Colebunders to delete Article 3.(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u64	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an article 3/1(n).(2286/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an Article 3/1(n).(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u65	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Gaby Colebunders to insert an article 3/1(n).(2286/5) Vote on amendment No 12 by Gaby Colebunders to insert an Article 3/1(n).(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u66	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 9 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an article 3/2(n).(2286/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an Article 3/2(n).(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u67	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Gaby Colebunders to insert an article 3/2(n).(2286/5) Vote on amendment No 13 by Gaby Colebunders to insert an Article 3/2(n).(2286/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u68	Yes [[28]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u69	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u70	Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u71	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u72	Yes 79 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law and the tables annexed. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House adopted the bill and the attached tables. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u73	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u74	Yes 97 Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u75	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u76	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u78	Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip143x.u79	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 2 December 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 2, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
