ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u2	I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. Pursuant to rule 116, bills are subject to limited general discussion. A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u3	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u4	Madam President, I refer to the written report: there are few of us and I do not want to bother those who are here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u5	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor briefly. I heard there was some displeasure in the Chamber yesterday. Mrs De Wit asked why the minister was not available. She insinuated that I was watching television while I was following an action against human trafficking and trafficking in human beings in my province. Madam President, I am here to discuss the budget, but I see that Mrs De Wit is not here. Perhaps you could call Mrs. De Wit to be here? In any case, I am at the disposal of the Chamber to conduct the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u6	It is, of course, a bit far-fetched that the Minister who was present at the discussion of his draft law, as announced to the government, does not now blame her for not being here. I suspect that it is registered and will also be present in due course. It is a novelty in the context of the new political culture, Minister, that you are absent from a discussion of a draft law, although you do have time to inform the press in detail but cannot answer the questions that are being asked here. I think that's pretty impertinent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u7	Madam President, all the questions asked yesterday were answered. That's what I've been confirmed. Mrs De Wit said yesterday that she was going to ask the Minister in Parliament to discuss the budget. She literally said that yesterday, Mr De Roover. I'm here. I don't need to be advanced. I'm in full anticipation of answering her. I'll see if she's coming and I'll be at the disposal of the Chamber, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u8	We hope that you will be at the disposal of the Chamber, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the first speaker in this debate. That's Mr. Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u9	Madam President, two people are on the list of speakers for the N-VA: Mrs De Wit and myself. As all colleagues and the Minister know, there will first be a general round and then a number of topics will be discussed in detail. Mrs De Wit will certainly be present to ask her question, because there are some questions to ask your department, Mr Van Quickenborne. When I look at it, I see word people and grade people in the world. Word people go for speeches and slogans. If they are policy makers, they ideally do so here in Parliament. There are also some other examples, people who prefer to do it in the press and the media before explaining it to Parliament. Those are the word people. I have to admit, I'm also a word person. I love words and language and I like to see how people can be lusty with language and messages. I also find it intriguing to see how sure this government can fool people with language. I'll talk about that later. Those are the word people. I think, Minister of Justice, that you belong in that category. In addition, there are the numbers. I must honestly say that I like words as a lawyer, but as a politician I quickly came to the conclusion that it is really about doing the figures. It is in the budget that a politician is weighed. It is in the figures that it is shown who really has power and influence. It is in the figures that it is shown who will be able to achieve what exactly, not in announcing a number of figures, but in the precise tables, in what is on the lines, in what has been awarded. We have had a lot of interesting discussions on this, including with Mrs De Bleeker, who, in my opinion, is mainly a figure person. You may contradict me later, Mrs De Bleeker, but that is how I met you in committee over the last few months. When you start working on the budget over the last few months, you try to do so conscientiously in terms of the figures. This was a very brief introduction. Mr Piedboeuf has just referred to the written report, but for those Members who have not read the report, I would like to outline in broad terms what my group has done in committee. In this budgetary control, the N-VA stressed in particular that we should use our time usefully so that the figures in the tables are as precise as possible. We have also had an opportunity to do so, because for the first time the budget has been discussed not only in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, but also in all the other committees of Parliament. This was done at the request of our group and the CdH Group. That was a very good exercise. It has ensured that every group is very well aware that we are not just word people, but also figures people and that what happens in all committees must also be financed. Some Members are a little more sensitive to this than others, but this exercise has increased the sense of and importance of the budget. As a result, we have had extra time to work in the Committee on Finance and Budget itself and to ensure that the figures are as up-to-date as possible. In the end, this has been a major success. Amendments have been tabled, including from the government, to ensure that government decisions are reflected in the tables. In this way, we can give citizens a little more transparency about their taxpayers' money. We have also done politics in committee, as it should be in Parliament. Very specific means that N-VA thinks that you are making some wrong policy choices. We would do a number of things differently. We want a tighter migration policy and the budget to reflect it. We want more investment in security and therefore not to be saved in the defence sector, which is what is in the tables. We do not want it, we want it to be invested in security. We also want an activation policy to be implemented, and if this does not happen, we do not think that any figure that is totally unsubstantiated can be put into the budget. We do not want figures to be magical; we have substantive objections to this, which we have also expressed in committee. We have therefore tabled a whole series of amendments, which have unfortunately all been voted down. That will not, of course, prevent us from submitting them again. We can only hope that colleagues will come to their senses and see that certain changes are necessary. I have outlined what we have done in committee, but I would like to do something different here in plenary today, if only to please Mr Vanbesien. After all, I would not want him to have to listen to the same speech over and over again. I think it is a special moment, because today we are celebrating the birth of the first De Bleeker budget. Your government has taken a somewhat false start very quickly, with a budget table on half a page of A4 format. We had serious discussions about this in the building of the European Parliament. Apparently, we had read your table better than the Prime Minister at the time, because it fell slightly off his chair at that time. I will not dwell on that. Unfortunately, he hasn't completely fallen yet, which may come. It was certainly a false start, and if you're honest, you'll confirm it. You did this implicitly in committee, admitting that the budget was being worked in a somewhat improper way. For example, commissions are used as a means of patching up political agreements here and there. That is actually not quite correct, but they are doing it anyway. Some figures are not fully substantiated, rather they reflect political ambitions. However, you have announced that you would take the budget seriously from the first day of the government, so as to make it a bit smooth. Gradually, a sound budgetary policy would be ensured. You are effectively working on this, because we have approved some of your draft laws last week that will ensure greater transparency, which is a good thing. We also saw during the committee discussion that you have tabled a number of amendments, including our question, to make the budget better and more correct. You straighten the budget a little bit by bit. You have also said at the beginning that you are focusing on the first real budgetary control. From that moment on, you would ensure that, for example, a number of promises to Mr Van Quickenborne would not remain below the commissions, but would be entered in the correct budget line. At the outset, moreover, you immediately indicated that this would be done on condition that the ministers, of course, do their work, prove that they are worth the money, come to the government with a well-founded dossier and that their plans can indeed be entered on the correct budget line. Madam Secretary of State, you yourself have set your sights on the first budgetary control. Today, in the light of your ambition, we can rightly speak of the birth of the De Bleeker budget. I'm deliberately making it very personal. I hope, therefore, that I will continue to encourage the sense of responsibility among all your colleagues and also in part within yourself. The budget is very close to my heart. What are we celebrating today at the birth of the De Bleeker budget? I have two parts in my speech. First of all, what have I noticed in the last few months? Secondly, I make some suggestions for the future. It's four points each time, so you can count down and know about when my speech will be done. First of all, what have I noticed in the last few months? That is Mrs De Bleeker's pregnancy budget, leading to your budget. Madam Secretary of State, I note that you are of good will. You take the compliments as you please. I can only speak honestly. It is my sincere conviction that you are very clear of good will and that you are also actively working on the budget. However, I notice whether it is my impression that you are using the hand brake. That's too bad. I personally notice that in the following. Firstly, you say that you will provide all the information that Parliament wants, and you often do, but that information does not always come as quickly as possible. Let me give you a concrete example. Last week we agreed in committee that we would get a table on the state of play with the corona commission and the interdepartmental commission. You promised me that information. Maybe you have delivered them to Parliament and stuck them with the services, but as far as I know, that has not happened. As far as I know, the responsibility lies not with the services, but with your cabinet. We asked for that information. You promised me that information. You have shown that you are of good will and that you want to share it, but she is not coming. That's not the only example. Those who do not rewrite history must honestly admit that the amendments to budgetary control have come because all the opposition parties have asked for them. In committee, I quoted you that the government would not come forward with amendments. In the end, you did. I am pleased with the result. Let's get that straight. You show that you are working on it, but it is a bit with the hand brake on and I am sorry about that. Let me give you another example. From the opposition, we raise a lot of questions in Parliament. I do not think I am the kind of Member who raises questions just to ask questions. I am trying to take my job very seriously and do so in substance and correctly. Our questions have not been answered proactively by you in the last few months, Madam Secretary of State. They are all brought together at the time of budgetary control, which means that we are actually only having a budget debate at the big moments. I'm sorry about that, actually. You say you're at your disposal to share information. Well, I would like to call for a change in the procedure. Let the budget become a living document in Parliament and let us not just have a budget debate here, but let us do it every week. By the way, for your information, Madam Secretary of State, I would have liked to give you the spotlight. It was our proposal at the Conference of Presidents that we should be able to deal with the budget more widely and actually do so this afternoon, because I assumed at that time that we would have completed yesterday's agenda so that we could deal with the budget perfectly this afternoon after Question Time. We could have organised enough media attention for you, but unfortunately the majority did not go into that. However, the budget deserves that light. So you do drive, but for a piece with the hand brake on. Secondly, I have also noticed that this is my personal analysis of the last few months, which you actually know better, but that you are keeping up appearances, the Vivaldi shine. I regret that, too, because it represents a kind of word role which does not do justice to the role of figures. Let me give you a few more examples. The High Council of Finance recommends putting the budget in order and puts a whole path on the table. He works with two scenarios, the second of which is a laxer scenario. Your budget and, above all, the multiannual budget are actually even more lax than the lax scenario of the Supreme Court of Finance. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Court of Auditors says. We literally put that question to the Court of Auditors in committee, which literally replied that you are even more cautious than the most cautious scenario of the Supreme Court of Finance. That analysis of the Court of Auditors has been confirmed in the meantime, when we look at the recent statements of the Planning Bureau. What is in your tables in the budget, which is part of the multiannual budget? You say that this is a first step towards restoring the budget after the corona era and that you want to close the legislature, in 2024, with a budget deficit of 3,66 %. Last weekend, your chairman, Egbert Lachaert, confirmed in an interview in L'Echo that the government is planning to move towards 3,66 %. What is now apparent from figures from the National Bank, and not the Planning Bureau, as I said before? Budget experts from the National Bank come up with figures and say that, according to them, the budget for 2023 will fall short of a deficit of 4.5 %. This intrigues me: at the end of 2023 we will have a deficit of 4.5 %, but your government says that 4.5 % a year later will have become 3.66 %. That is a budgetary effort of about EUR 4 billion in one year, in 2024, an election year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the question very openly and to everyone: is there anyone who believes that in one year's time, in an election year, this government will make a budgetary effort of EUR 4 billion? If we are honest, everyone will confirm that this is actually not credible. You know that as well as I do, Madam Secretary of State, but you still keep up that appearance. Hopefully you won't do that in your replies and communicate transparently your honest analysis of those figures. Let me quote a second example of how this appearance is kept up. There were big press conferences yesterday. Europe owes us EUR 5.9 billion. Like we're gonna get it. We'll pay for it. We pay even more to the European Union than we get back. That EUR 5.9 billion is simply not our rightful share. I've done the analysis here before. The Planning Office went to see which Member States would all receive money from the European Union and how much, what their economic situation is and their GDP. All countries receive on average around 2.3 % of their GDP in EU corona support. Belgium will receive 1.2 %. We get half of what the rest gets. Yesterday and today all the newspapers said "EUR 5.9 billion, thank you Europe, wonderful work by the Vivaldiploeg," when we should have had twice as much. We should have had 12 billion. Only then would we have been fairly distributed from that European corona fund. Everyone knows that. You know that too, Madam Secretary of State, but this is not spoken transparently by the majority. We haven't heard from Prime Minister De Croo about that. Together with Mrs Van Bossuyt, we have repeatedly interviewed him on this issue, including in the European Affairs Advisory Committee. We must be satisfied with 5.9 billion, whereas 12 should have been. We would have been relieved of Mr Van Hees' tax train. We just found $6 billion. However, that analysis is not being made, even though you know it is correct, Madam Secretary of State. You keep the impression that Prime Minister De Croo has negotiated well in Europe, when he has just gone down his knees far too fast and others have gone with our pennies. My fourth point, the last one in this section, is once again my analysis, which you do not have to agree with, but I am curious about your response, Madam Secretary of State. We see you changing from a more technical profile to a politician. That is a well-known path that we have all walked. Someone decides in his first year in Parliament what kind of politician one wants to be, rather a communicative politician or a file eater. Each determines its own style, approach and profiling. It's kind of nice to be able to follow that from the front row. I think I can see an evolution in you, too. You're becoming more and more politicians. I'm afraid it's not a good evolution, Madam Secretary of State. For your consideration, I would like to suggest that you choose a different path. Let me give you an example from the committee. Some corona expenditures have been made that are not in the budget. I'll give you another example, from the Defense Department. Mr Francken is also here in plenary. In committee, I have submitted to you that Minister Dedonder has repeatedly stated that more money will go to the defence sector. It has also already communicated that it has an agreement with the trade unions and that the status of the military will be strengthened. That is media communication before these matters are communicated to Parliament, which may sound familiar to you, Minister Van Quickenborne. Madam Secretary of State, at the budget meeting in committee, I ask you, since Minister Dedonder communicates about important budgets, why they are not in your budget. You replied that you have not yet been able to include it in the budget because there is no specific dossier yet. So Mrs Dedonder has communicated in the press, but there is no concrete dossier in the government, certainly not in the Budget, so you cannot include it in the budget. I notice something else in the budget, the payback effects on activation policy. What's interesting about these payback effects on activation policy, for those colleagues who are not fully involved? What's Vivaldi's promise? We're going to an employment rate of eighty percent. It's gonna be okay. We don't even have to take measures for that. It'll be all right. We are so confident that this will be done that we are already registering the payback effects in the budget. This year's figure is EUR 50 million. That's not very small. What do all labour market experts say? We do not know at all what that is based on. There is EUR 50 million in the budget, but we do not know at all on the basis of what measure the government thinks it will achieve. What is more, a social agreement is being concluded, although it is not entirely clear whether that agreement has been concluded. Apparently, there's been an error at the Walloon union. That was a very interesting vote, by the way. That will be of interest to the Liberal colleagues, because 80% of the Walloon wing of the socialist trade union, the FGTB, voted against, while the Flemish trade union pushed it through. That's kind of interesting. The trade union has a very clear Community break, because 80% of the Walloon trade union voted against it. It is the Flemings who say: it is not good enough, but we will continue. The payback effects are thus entered in the budget. The labour market experts say they don't see what that's based on. On the contrary, they note that there is a social agreement that encourages inactivity rather than activity. It is going in the wrong direction, but it still has that recouping effect in your budget. Madam Secretary of State, you have said that you do not register items in your budget if you do not have a file that proves that those figures can be included. Those are your words. You said you couldn't register those figures from the Defense Department, because you don't have a file that supports those figures. So it doesn't belong in the budget. Doesn't it make sense for you to delete the amount for the payback effects? Because there's no record behind it at all. There's nothing serious about it. Then the politicians will emerge in you, because you will say: we are going to record it, because it makes it clear that we have an ambition to ensure a high employment rate. Madam Secretary of State, it's from two cases one. You can be the Secretary of State for the Budget who goes for a budgetary seriousness, which includes in its budget matters which are substantiated or for which there is a reasonable prospect that will be realised. I agree that a budget offers a view of the future, but that cannot be an infinite view. If you include things in the budget of a given year, you must also have reasonable indications that these things will be realised effectively. You can be the politician who only includes things in the budget when they are well-founded, or you can be the other politician who goes with the purple-green belt, pie in the sky, with which we have to do it. End of this first part. You seem to me to be of very good will, but you drive with the hand brake. I wonder why. You have a technical profile and could afford the freedom to tackle the budget more technically. In fact, I believe that this would strengthen your freedom and your position in the government, in order to be able to organise the assessment of a number of budgetary dossiers more effectively. I hope, Madam Secretary of State, that your hand brake did not appear after that famous budget debate that lasted all night and where the vaccine prices ended up on Twitter, which you undoubtedly got to your feet in the government. Perhaps that explains why you have become more cautious and less transparent. I hope that is not the reason, because we need just the opposite. We need the Eva De Bleeker from the beginning, who had a more technical profile and wanted to share the figures transparently with Parliament, as announced in the policy paper. That's the analysis I'm doing. You don't have to agree with that, but I think it's interesting that you know how I look at reality. The other part: what are we going to do with that now? What do we think about the budget that is on the table here? What can we do to make it better? Can we give some questions or suggestions for the future? After all, we will be discussing some budgets in this House. Another four dots. Firstly, I call on you, Madam Secretary of State, to unlock the hand brake, to work actively with the budget. Don't wait for the opposition to ask questions about it, but just do it proactively, on its own initiative. Not stroll, but hop with the legs. A number of very concrete things can happen. I refer to one of our amendments on exceeding the central index, given the inflation rate that is currently rising. The discussion as to whether this increase will be permanent or not does not even matter. What matters is that it looks like the pivot index will be exceeded. The experts confirm that, and so we know that there is a budgetary expenditure coming. For this year it would be 267 million euros extra. So I suggest not to wait until the budget is overtaken by the facts, but start working proactively with the budget and integrate that figure into the budget already. The experts and the Court of Auditors, by the way, say that you would do better. Don't let us stroll, let go of the hand brake and forward with the goat. I have a second suggestion with which we are already getting a little closer to the Justice Department. It is a pity that you are leaving the Chamber just now when it comes to justice, Minister. I would like to call on you, Madam Secretary of State, to call your colleagues to order when they communicate without budgetary cover. There are some ministers who like to honk and tattle in the media without budgetary coverage. DOD's just been mentioned. There was a great deal of communication about this and everything seems to be inside with the unions, when you say that there is still no file to confirm that. Why don't you tell Minister Dedonder that she can't do that, that you'll have to talk about it as adult politicians first and make sure there's a decent file on the table? For example, citizens know that they are not only promises, but that the invoices will also be paid. I could say a lot about the Department of Justice, but Mr De Wit will discuss this in detail later. I would like to say that we have seen the same thing there as Minister Dedonder: great press communications, but when we look at the specific budget lines for justice, something seems to be wrong. In any case, the money is not on the right lines, which in your words, Madam Secretary of State, means that the Minister has not yet come up with a well-founded dossier, because otherwise the amounts would be on the right budget lines, you would have announced. Let me give you another example. Quite a few of your Liberal colleagues are right to say that public debt is rising and their response to this is privatisation, which is also contained in the government agreement. I asked you questions about this in committee and you replied that these privatisations are in the government agreement but that this wording is purely indicative. I still like the wording of that. It is mentioned in indicative terms in the coalition agreement, which is actually legal strategists for nougatbollen, it says so, but it is not really going to do anything about it. Madam Secretary of State, if you once again hear one of your colleagues shouting that public debt is to be brought under control with privatisations, please call it to order. Ask them not to announce it because it is not in the budget. Ask your government to radiate some seriously and only communicate what is truly substantiated. That is a second suggestion, call your colleagues to order if they prefer to be words people rather than numbers people. I come to a third point, look ahead. That is just about the summary of this budget, Belgium above and on the left forward. This is increasingly apparent from the tables. With regard to looking forward, I would like to make a suggestion. Madam Secretary of State, I have already mentioned reform policy. I will not repeat everything here, but you know that there will be no payback. So look forward and make sure that your budget is properly incorporated. I would like to give a second example, in particular on the security of a number of sites where the threat level is still high. Mr Freilich is working very thoroughly and expertly on that dossier in the Committee on Defence. We know that a number of special sites are protected by our military and that the police can take over that task perfectly, provided that we are sure that security is guaranteed, that there are men and equipment available and that there are pennies registered to fund that security. We all know there's a problem there about Operation Vigilant Guardian. At the initiative of the majority, work is being carried out on the termination of that mission. That means the police will have to take over a number of tasks, but she doesn't have the money for that. Mrs Verlinden does not have the budget for that. That is the simple reality, and that is also evident from your budget. We know this will have to be financed. Madam Secretary of State, look ahead. We know this is coming. Take that into account in your budget. You shouldn't be looking far. There is an N-VA amendment on the table that can be approved. Then it will be integrated into the budget and we will give certainty to all communities and the buildings concerned that their security will remain guaranteed. A first amendment is on the table. It amounts to about EUR 3 million. In a slightly wider context, with regard to the security of major cities in particular, especially Brussels and Antwerp, that is the file that absolutely needs to be put on the table. I really call on everyone to integrate this into the budget and to look forward. I come to my fourth and final point. There are illegal cases in this budget. In this country there is a division of labour. The federal government has jurisdiction in matters other than the Länder. This is enshrined in the Constitution and in special laws, but also in a whole series of legislation. That division of labour is clear. If someone is authorized to do something, someone else is not authorized to do it. That's what they're supposed to stick to. However, we note that the federal budget finances matters that are not its task, such as foreign trade. This is clearly a state power in which the federal government has nothing more to say under the law. If the federal government intervenes, it's actually illegal. The budgets entered in the budget are actually illegal. That makes your budget, in part, illegal. Madam Secretary of State, you really need to limit that for two reasons. First of all, it's just not right. A government is supposed to respect the law. A government as an executive should not play legislator itself. That is a first fundamental reason. There is also a second reason. It's not that your problems aren't big enough. Your budget will end up with a deficit of around EUR 31 billion in 2021, after all the amendments have been approved, but you will still be funding the costs of another government. It's like you're saying you don't have enough debts yet and you can add a few more deficits. You're putting money on the table for something you don't have to pay yourself. Madam Secretary of State, for reasons of budgetary self-interest, it is best to stop doing so and to remind the Länder of their legal tasks. In any case, Flanders is ready and is already doing so, in order to fully assume that responsibility. You must make it clear to the Länder that the federal level will no longer do so because the law forbids you from doing so and because the budgets can be used usefully for other matters, especially those for which the federal level is competent. So let that be the fourth recommendation. Stop funding illegal cases and help your budget in that way. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. We are discussing the budgetary control we are discussing today. We will also often discuss the multiannual budget and where it goes. I have given myself some thought to the question of what is a good measure for me to measure the budget against. On the economic front, a good measure is that there are more people at work. When I look at the budget figures and wonder what good measure could apply to them, I come to the transfers between the Länder. After all, they give the image and the final result of everything. If you pursue good labour market policies and sound fiscal policies and address ageing in an appropriate way, this will have an impact on transfers between the Länder. In this respect, the real impact of the totality of the policy is noticeable. The coincidence is that there is just last week a new study on transfers, which actually confirms what we all know: Flanders pays about EUR 7 billion and the money goes mainly to Wallonia, EUR 6.2 billion, and to Brussels, EUR 895 million. These are not my figures, they are the figures of a French-speaking professor, who, by the way, are in line with those of all the other studies that have already been carried out in the past by various institutions, by Professor Decoster among others. They're all talking about amounts in the same order of magnitude. We all know, by the way, that transfers are actually even bigger if, for example, historical interest charges are included. However, for the discussion we are taking EUR 7 billion. How did that happen in the previous legislature? In the previous legislature, we were in the government for at least a number of years. Then the transfers were actually fairly stabilized. How did that happen? Actually, it looked like the transfers would take off, thanks to us, because we had a strong activation policy. If we succeed in getting the French speakers to work, this means that there must be fewer benefits, that they themselves earn their own wages, that they pay taxes and that fewer interpersonal transfers are needed between Flanders and Wallonia. To make it concrete, if we want to go to an employment rate of 80%, it means that in this country about 700 000 people have to work extra. I would actually be more satisfied if you were to ensure that the employment rate in Wallonia and Brussels is as high as in Flanders today. Even if the employment rate is not 80%, but is as high as it is now in Flanders, that would mean that 340,000 French speakers are working more, 340,000 people who no longer have to live on a benefit, who no longer have to count on transfers from Flanders, but who themselves have a job, who can provide for their own future. In any case, we have managed, with the previous government, to increase the level of activity. More than 200,000 new jobs were created, especially in the private sector. That was evident in the transfers, but what we saw then is that Flanders is ageing faster than Wallonia. The average age in Flanders is higher than in French-speaking Belgium. As a result, expenditure on pensions was higher in Flanders than in Wallonia. One was a bit flattened and that is why the figures were fairly stabilised in the previous legislature. The question is what the outcome will be after this legislature. Madam Secretary of State, it does not look good in that respect. There is still an ageing bill and it will be presented for years to come. Meanwhile, we are also seeing an ageing population in Wallonia. In French-speaking Belgium, the ageing population will increase just as much. Although there was a slowing effect, the cost of ageing in Wallonia has been rising for two years. No one is talking about the ageing bill anymore, but it will have a huge flame in your budget and that will have a huge impact on the transfers as well. The activation policy, with which these costs could be flattened or ideally reduced, does not look good either. On the measures we have seen from the government so far, experts argue that they encourage inactivity rather than encourage people to work more. Madam Secretary of State, for that reason, I would like to take that as a parameter, along with my party. That's what I'd like to announce to you. Your government will be successful if it succeeds in reducing transfers between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. That will satisfy me, but if you succeed, it will satisfy you and all your partners. A reduction means that there will be more people at work and that you will have put your budget under control. You will no longer have built air castles or blew purple-green bubbles, but have done solid budgetary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today by congratulating Mr Loones. That's not cynical, it's mean. Mr Loones is a man of words. If he starts to say in committee that he will keep it short, he will be able to install himself quite comfortably, because people know that it will take some time. Mr Loones, the compliment is for your determination to insist and ultimately to get the budgetary change discussed in the committees responsible for the areas that have been affected. That has indeed made the debate richer and has enabled the Members concerned to debate each in their own area. That was not originally planned, but thanks to your determination that has happened, so this is a heartfelt compliment to you, Mr Loones. Ladies and gentlemen, during all the discussions that have taken place over the last few weeks, it has often been a question of how far one should go to include the latest developments in revenue and expenditure in a budget or a budget change. A budget is an estimate, an estimate of the resources that will come in and of the expenditure we will do. That estimate is overtaken every day by reality and constantly changing. So the question is how far one should go to take these changes. That is not a wrong question, but the answer is not unambiguous. In that sense, I have confidence in the Secretary of State and her team, who are doing their best to take adjustments with them until the last possible moment. The last moment is not the same as the last moment. The final moment is changes until last night or until this morning just before the discussion. We have made the comparison before, including in committee. A budget is, as it were, a picture of the financial situation at a certain point in time. That photograph is determined by reports and studies and by decisions taken by the government or Parliament. After taking the picture, there will be a whole process, a process of analysis, with the opinion of the Court of Auditors, with discussions and votes in different committees and finally with a vote in plenary. Any adjustment made after taking that photo is also subject to those procedures. It is therefore not obvious to make any changes between the photo and the vote. The changes that happen then are normally forwarded to the next picture, the next budget discussion. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State and her team have made some adjustments to the photo. These are adjustments relating to measures decided and calculated after the photograph. There are colleagues who would like to include further changes to that photograph, and I understand that question, because the more it is recorded, the more accurate it will be, even though it will be obsolete again within a few days or weeks. These often involve changes due to decisions being prepared but not yet taken definitively, or changes for which the calculations have not yet been fully knocked out, or changes for which there is no longer time to allow them to go through the procedure to be included in this photograph. So there's got to be a line drawn somewhere. Of course, it also works in two directions. Recently, the National Bank stated that our economy is falling back faster than expected, with undoubtedly positive effects on employment, employment rates and government revenue. These effects have not yet been included in this document. That will undoubtedly be covered in the next picture. I would therefore like to express my confidence in the Secretary of State and her team. I think the picture is as complete as possible. Changes will be made to the tables by means of covid support measures this year. There will be changes due to a rapidly recovering economy. I am confident that the Secretary of State will inform us as soon as there is any certainty. For this reason, Madam President, I would like to say that our group will support this budget change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u11	Mr Vanbesien, I would like to thank you for your compliments. It is indeed good cooperation in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. There is a lot of listening to each other and there is also a real debate, so I would like to thank you for the compliment. However, I thought you would thank me for something else, particularly for your second point. The fact that amendments have been tabled and that the budgetary tables have been updated is due to the opposition's question. It also turns out that that was not an unreasonable question, because it worked. We have insisted on this and it has been realised. This proves once again that we may be able to jump a little further when we work together in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u12	Madam President, I would like to go back to Mr Vanbesien's metaphor of the photo. We are now in digital times, Mr Vanbesien, and most of us are now using the Instagram app. It is not only important which photo one uses, but also which filter one places on that photo. There our Walloon colleagues in the committee have already lifted a tip from the veil. For lyrical descriptions of the federal budget, we must be with Mr Piedboeuf. He referred to the budget l'art du possible, the art of the possible, once again the proof that the budget is based on a sort of southern European style and that it is covering things up. The government has not only chosen a particular photograph, but it has also placed a masking filter on it. My group has certainly won for a more northern European way of budgeting, not imaginary southern European budgets based on wishes and quicksand, but budgets based on realistic estimates and estimates based on the principle of prudence. Ladies and gentlemen, the world economy is beginning to resurrect. That is good news, but the euro area remains behind in relation to the rest of the world. However, the revival of the economy is also accompanied by rising prices. Companies face higher raw materials. A lot of raw materials are becoming more expensive due to scarcity. There are also shortages of microchips. A number of factories of car manufacturers in our country have stopped. At the moment there is also a shortage of containers for transport. Companies will pass on these increased prices to consumers. Sectors other than the production sectors are also increasing their prices. So a hospitality visit becomes a lot more expensive. More than half of the hospitality stores increase prices after corona. So the inflation ghost strikes again. This can have a direct and indirect impact on the country's budget. Wages and social security benefits - Mr Loones rightly said that there are so many south of the language border - are linked to inflation via the central index. The government still takes into account in this budget that the central index will not be exceeded until 2022, but according to the latest monthly forecasts, the central index will most likely be reached by October of this year. This will have a direct impact of many hundreds of millions of euros on the budget, which is not yet taken into account today. The Court of Auditors was right to point that out. There is a much greater indirect impact. Indirectly, rising inflation represents a risk to countries with high public debt such as Belgium. The central banks' main weapon against rising inflation is, of course, raising interest rates. Interest rate increases are dramatic for debt-sick countries such as Belgium. The Debt Agency demonstrated in the Finance Committee that an increase in interest rates will have a significant impact on this country. An increase of 1% in interest rates could increase the annual short-term interest charges by a small EUR 2 billion. Thus, there can also be an indirect impact of many billions of euros on the budget, which is not yet taken into account at all. Economist Bart Van Craeynest spoke about it yesterday in De Tijd: "A steep rise in interest rates or a further drop in our growth potential will bring this country into difficult papers quite quickly. Even more, due to the large structural budget deficit that we are coming out of this crisis, our public finances are already on an unsustainable long-term path today." He's right, of course. When we discussed the initial budget in December, we said here in plenary that the purple-green government, with the presentation of the original budget, was throwing a boomerang in its face when it came to the first budgetary control. Effectively, the federal government deficit increases with the adjustment from 25 billion to 30 billion. It is therefore an increase of no less than EUR 5 billion or some 20%. If we take the deficits of all the governments in this country together, the deficit will rise to almost EUR 40 billion. In the meantime, the situation is also alarming for regional budgets, especially in French-speaking Belgium. The Brussels Region keeps digging wells and derails the debt. The French Community has an annual deficit of more than EUR 1 billion until the end of this legislature. The deficit of the Walloon Region will be greater in absolute terms within a few years than that of Flanders. Thus, the Flemish Interest continues to insist that until Belgium is split, the Länder should respond to their policies, so that the debt they build cannot be passed on to other regions in this country, especially Flanders. Flanders should therefore not take the brunt of Brussels, Walloon and French-speaking pottering. When the initial budget was submitted, it also worked with outdated figures and today we are being presented with the bill in this adjusted budget. The initial budget for 2021 was already hopelessly obsolete and one could therefore expect that a government would not touch the same stone twice. However, nothing is less true. Firstly, this government continues to work with outdated and outdated figures in this adjusted budget. The budgetary impact of many measures was not estimated. For example, we are still working on tax revenue with figures from after the first wave, while we already have the third corona wave behind us. In December we were able to understand this more or less, but today, six months later, of course, that concept is a lot smaller. Secondly, the government is also falling into bad habits, for example by continuing to count on insecure income, such as cross-border and securities tax, but also by knowingly and willingly continuing to work with corona commissions, which is a rather discussable budgetary technique. Thirdly, this budgetary adjustment is a missed opportunity for us to begin to correct the budgetary situation. Admittedly, corona clouds the budget figures and ultimately objects significantly to the budget, but corona does not hide the structural unhealthy finances in this guilty country of course. This budgetary adjustment is therefore the adjustment of the missed opportunity to start with the adjustment of expenditure and to start with the healthiering of Belgian finances. This budgetary adjustment does not give us any confidence that this government will also be able to control the situation in 2022. The Michael administration has never, let us be honest, succeeded in achieving its budgetary objectives. Based on what we are being presented here today, it does not seem that the Croo administration will succeed. The increase in the corona clouds will also put the budget in the spotlight once again. After Corona, the budget comes back to the front of the political agenda. The easy work, the billions spent on corona, is finally over. Now comes the difficult work for this government: the clean-up, the healthiering of finances. How will that work in a government with seven parties and four different ideologies? The left-wing parties are simply choosing the map of populism, as we saw in the wage agreement. Forward and PS shamelessly copy the completely unrealistic proposals of the PVDA, such as the deletion of all dividends and the freezing of CEOs' wages. In the discussions on budgetary adjustment in committee, the Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs De Bleeker, wisely did not respond to the budgetary impact of such rash radical left-wing proposals. The green parties in this government, who preach an ecological fundamentalism, are also anxiously silent about who will pay the green invoices that are inextricably attached to them. Minister Van Peteghem wisely did not reply to the budgetary impact of electrifying the company car park. Or what to think about the impact of the gas plants to be built and the costs associated with them for the CRM? We have a deficit of many tens of billions of euros. The government's budgetary conclave has not yet taken any more than EUR 56 million in action. The overall impact on the deficit of many tens of billions of euros is EUR 556 million. It is not in that way that the government will succeed in getting its budget in order. To this end, the first steps could have already been taken in the adjustment of the 2021 budget. Of course there is still the pandemic, but it is now clear that 2021 will be a year of careful recovery. A responsible government can therefore be expected to provide a cautious incentive for policy adjustment in view of the catastrophic state of public finances, and it does not. It is difficult to take seriously a budgetary conclave, with some EUR 56 million on the basis of 20 points. So it stays with some messing around in the margin, with some punctual adjustments. There is still a long way to go for structural reform. In addition, this budgetary adjustment is spending more than EUR 200 million on expenditure that could have been spent much more usefully. We're going through a rough economic crisis, but purple-green still has a hole in hand. The contribution to the European Union is increasing by as much as EUR 178 million. The European Union's funding already costs the taxpayer in this country EUR 7.7 billion a year and that year after year, ladies and gentlemen. As we all know, the Flemings are the largest net contributors of the European Union. As far as the European Recovery Fund is concerned, too, this country and Flanders is structurally underwhelmed by Europe. Whatever measure is used, Belgium is Europe's knucklehead. Moreover, the government still has a few million euros available to support the political agenda of the Black Lives Matter movement and decolonisation. The maintenance donation of Royal Domains is also increased once again, this time for the maintenance of the security installations. While ordinary citizens and businesses have to postpone the least urgent spending, the current government and the Royal House let the money roll. There is also another extra money going to Unia, an unnecessary and harmful institution. There is also additional money to fund a communication campaign to promote Belgium's image. Imagine that. We are afraid that a great deal of money will be needed to boost the image of the Belgian State. The purple-green government is therefore spending more than EUR 200 million on expenditure that could have been cancelled or saved for us. That is incomprehensible in today's times. Of course, this money could have been better used to provide additional support to the most affected sectors. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments to that effect, which we will put to the vote later today. Not only the budget deficit, but also public debt is rising to unsustainable levels in the short and medium term. On Tuesday, the Annual Report of the Belgian Debt Agency showed that the Belgian government debt increased by almost 50 billion euros to 515 billion euros in 2020, the highest level since 1999. As a result, Belgian debt stands at over 114 percent of gross domestic product. That is a debt of 48,000 euros per Belgian. Every child who is born in Belgium will therefore immediately receive a debt of 48,000 euros. That's unbelievable. Belgium's global debt thus amounts to 120 per cent of gross domestic product, with the National Bank of Belgium indicating several times that from 120 per cent the debt is in a danger zone. In those circumstances, a concerned and cautious government would look for improvements, efficiency and effectiveness, i.e. more efficient governance. However, that does not apply to Belgium. Corona still appears to be the perfect alibi not to do so and, above all, to continue with unbridled spending. That situation is untenable. Economist Van Craeynest estimated yesterday in De Tijd that, under unchanged policies, government debt rises to 225% of GDP in 2070 and even to 370% in the worst case scenario. Thus, according to the National Bank, savings are better placed on the policy agenda, along with structural reforms to improve, for example, the functioning of the labour market. By the way, Voka had a similar message yesterday. The Flemish employers' organisation called for control of public expenditure and also called for structural reforms to restore healthier public finances. The Court of Auditors reminded us and the government that in the initial budget 2021, based on that political ambition to increase the employment rate or employment rate to 80%, this government is counting on EUR 400 million of income in 2024. How the government intends to achieve this objective is completely unclear today. In the initial budget 2021, the Council of Ministers had estimated the expected payback effects, including the fight against social dumping and social and tax fraud, at EUR 200 million in 2021 and at EUR 1 billion in 2024. That is the famous budget table of purple-green. In the meantime, Mr Van Peteghem launched a plan to combat social and fiscal fraud, with 29 points. It is particularly regrettable that he is not here in this debate, but the question remains how the proceeds of the plan will be calculated in concrete terms and whether a EUR 200 million return for this year is actually realistic, given that several measures still need to be translated into legal texts. I want to end with a positive note. With regard to European budgetary rules, the spirits in this country are ripening. In the committee we think we have more or less understood that the Secretary of State will not let Europe teach us the lesson. It is, of course, the Member States and, as far as we are concerned, the Länder, which must be given and maintained full budgetary autonomy. Even Professor Paul De Grauwe is now moving towards that position. I quote from his opinion paper in De Morgen: 'In a democracy, the power to spend and tax is vested in the parliaments. No taxes without representation, no taxation without representation. When a supranational institution such as the European Commission tries to thwart the decisions of these parliaments, problems arise. This gap between those who make decisions and those who bear the political costs of these decisions is the biggest weakness in the management of budgetary rules in the euro area. The lack of political legitimacy of the imposed rules can only be resolved by adopting a bottom-up approach which gives a great deal of responsibility to national authorities to ensure budgetary discipline. Renationalisation of budgetary discipline should go hand in hand with a number of institutional reforms giving greater independence and authority to national audit bodies." It could actually come from the party program of a eurocritical party like the Flemish Interest, but no, it was literally read in Professor De Grauwe's opinion piece. We are particularly pleased that the spirits are beginning to ripen. A second positive note is the finding that the negligence and moratorium interest on direct taxation is significantly increasing the costs to be paid in the event of late payments to the public authorities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is quite logical that in corona times, mostly small companies, especially in Flanders, have payment difficulties. This amount simply increased in a budget adjustment showed, of course, a manifest lack of empathy, and was, to say the least, politically reprehensible. In committee, I raised the question of whether the government was prepared to further reduce these omissions and moratoriums, given the unprecedented economic crisis in which many small businesses have been affected. Effectively, the government itself has tabled an amendment to that effect, which has therefore strongly supported the Flemish interest. So far, the positive notes in the context of this budgetary adjustment. In the meantime, you will have understood from the whole of my speech that we are not going to approve this budgetary adjustment. It is a budgetary adjustment of the missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u13	Mr Vermeersch, you are merely confirming what I have said, that the budget is the art of the possible. You can do all the demonstrations you want, we are obviously at the mercy of a whole series of parameters. Our role is to try to understand them at best, and that is what we are doing, with, it is true, at some point, the hope of making recipes. It is a hope that is not at all imaginary. We're trying to put in place what's going to produce revenue. I repeat that the budget is the art of the possible, it is not literature but a reality. I've been making budgets for more than thirty years, and I'm getting my results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u14	Mr Piedboeuf, we are a few hundred meters away from the Flemish Parliament. I have no problem with the occasional positive treatment of Mr Diependaele from the Flemish Government, because he is doing better than the federal ministers and his colleagues in the south of the language border. Of course, it is not difficult to budget better than Belgium or Wallonia. Anyway, a few hundred meters from here is budgeted in a very different way. There's a much more rational way of dealing with it. That's what I was trying to paint. Here we are dealing with a budget in a typical French way under the motto l'art du possible. In Flanders we do not have a filter on the budget, we are clear about that. That's the Northern European way of budgeting. Countries such as Germany and the Netherlands have a different way of budgeting than, for example, France and Italy, which use the southern European way of budgeting. The point I wanted to make is that the dominance of the French-speaking parties in the government ensures that we use a southern European way of budgeting. That is simply the reality; we can only establish that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u15	Madam President, after this very lively and traditional exchange between our two colleagues, I am more fond of Mr Piedboeuf. I would like to say to Mr Vermeersch and Mr Loones various things about this budget and I would not just like to say them to them, but to everyone. We are meeting today, Madam Secretary of State, to discuss this budgetary adjustment. "Adjustment" is a term that is not galvanized, that is not lyrical and that simply means in mechanics that you adjust two pieces to each other. We give thanks to reality by acting in this way. It is therefore a budget that is faced with reality, an evolutionary reality, to which this budget adapts, since it adheres to reality. Unfortunately, this reality is that of a health crisis, as you know. It is an unprecedented health crisis that has surpassed all superlatives in terms of impact on our public finances, but also on our lives, in general. We have had to adapt to new constraints, sacrifice our freedoms in order to avoid the collapse of our health, economic and societal system. Our economy has suffered enormously; I agree with you and have felt it myself being independent from father to son and daughter for generations. And I'm from Hainaut, so my voice is also special in the history of transfers. At the end of my speech I will share with you some small elements of my own opinion about them, but I will return to my introduction. The prospects for beautification seem to be growing. We are surprised, but we are still glad to see that the economic recovery is bogged down and that we can base concrete hopes right now on an economic embellishment that will perhaps, as I hope, bring us revenue. That's where I meet Mr. Piedboeuf. This is a reminder of the unwavering link, which we stress, between freedom and a vigorous economy - one that does not exist without it. A budget is, by definition, a foresight exercise, but not as Mrs Irma did. It is not the latter who would be in Mrs. Secretary of State's skin and who would look at her crystal ball. As I say and repeat, this is an exercise based on the look at a reality in motion and on the concrete hopes that we can base and that are already emerging in this reality for the near future. The current health crisis, due to its changing nature and its ability to affect our society in waves - to which we must continue to take care - makes this exercise extremely complicated. The forecasts on which this budget is based are rapidly outdated. This is obviously all the art and the difficulty of the exercise in question. Of course, this is often the case when it comes to a budget or a budgetary adjustment in normal time. The Court of Auditors rightly reminded him of that fact at its hearing. As you and Mr. Vanbesien have indicated, the budget is a photograph - by essence, an image stopped and not a film, an image in motion. This time, however, macroeconomic parameters vary greatly depending on the positive or negative development of the pandemic. Therefore, this famous photo is less clear. It remains a stop on image, but it has been seized from a subject in constant motion and too fast, so that the cliché is a little blurry. However, we must not consider the photo, but rather try to decipher its spirit, not the letter. The spirit takes place at the heart of the debate in which we are participating and which is extremely complicated. This is not what makes our so-called cultural difference. I like the Flemish people very much. I live with one of them. I understand very well the way and art with which they calculate. Indeed, it is also an art! You seem to say that we also have an art, that of speaking and seeing things in a way that may be too beautifying. Don't forget that, although I'm a Walloon and annoyed, I can calculate very well. I learned all the more to calculate that I worked for six years in a position that did not support approximations. The Court of Auditors praised the desire of the Secretary of State - as evidence of the two previous budgetary adjustments, and it was not flattering on their part - to try to stick to the changing news as closely as possible. I would remind you that this is a very difficult exercise. In general, it can be observed that the second wave strongly affected the fiscal and economic estimates for the year 2020. The long-awaited recovery for the year 2021 is, finally, a little later than expected, which negatively impacts the forecasts for this year. These findings may also change in some time. We will therefore end up with an adjusted budget that takes account of reality, a budget that integrates or updates the consequences of the exceptional crisis that we are experiencing, more than it incorporates large-scale strategic or political decisions. Moreover, the budgetary conclave and the updates point to a negative impact of EUR 56 million on the balance of the federal government and social security, which is a relatively limited impact, compared to the amounts at stake to combat the health crisis, i.e. more than EUR 20 billion for 2020. We can hope that future budgets will be more positive with the advance of the vaccination campaign and hope for greater freedom and a very vigorous recovery of our economy. We can hope that these positive effects counterbalance the cost of the many necessary support measures that have been decided by the government and Parliament for all Belgians. The adjustment has also been thoroughly examined in every committee in our House. We owe it to the opposition and I thank them for that. As chairman of the Finance Committee, I was a little surprised by this request. For the committee secretary, this kind of sharing between commissions – which is an additional wealth – was only done at the time of the budget and not at the time of adjustments. You did the right thing, and I thank you for that. I have followed your request, and I am very pleased that, thanks to that, all the committees in this Parliament have been able to take a decision on the matters they usually deal with. We have therefore introduced new jurisprudence. We asked the government a number of questions about the index-pivot, the fiscal trajectory, the budgetary coordination between the federated entities or the evolution of Belgium's debt. We are confident and thank the government for its responses and announcements, which show that it is following closely the next macroeconomic estimates that will necessarily influence our budget. It will be recalled, since this appears necessary in the light of some of the opposition's comments, that the context is very specific and makes this budgetary exercise more difficult. But it is all the more fun and extraordinary to participate in a budgetary exercise in a period like this. This gives rise to comments, debate and new behaviours that are beneficial to our country. The good news is that this crisis seems increasingly behind us. I'm a little careful because you never know. When the holidays come back, we may have some bad surprises, but I don't want to be a bad bird. The recovery is here. It confirms itself and allows us to give an additional boost to our economy for the second part of the year with all the benefits that this will bring to our public finances. The pressure on our public finances is enormous. I particularly experienced the financial crisis of 2008 as I worked on all the commissions that, unfortunately, witnessed the fall of some banks. The consequences of this financial crisis had already demonstrated how much it was necessary to be very vigilant with regard to sovereign debts and that the suddenness via a snowball effect could very quickly occur with dramatic economic and societal repercussions. In this regard, we will also maintain this government's willingness to commit, in accordance with the government agreement, to a fiscal path that aims at a return to sounder public finances, a return to sustainable public finances that must remain a concern for this government. You'll be in full agreement with me. As the Deputy Prime Minister pointed out in his intervention in the Finance Committee, it is vital that our debt rate is controlled and that the government anticipates the next major deadlines in this area. We also welcome the Government's willingness to work more closely with the federated entities within the framework of the stability agenda. Not to the displeasure of some who have a little and kindly criticized earlier, all the entities of the country participate in the finance and financial health of our country, Belgium. There is no question of one entity taking precedence over the other. There is no question of doing anything other than thinking together about a meaningful fiscal trajectory. Finally, the Secretary of State and the Deputy Prime Minister have partly attached the floor to the proceedings. Amendments were tabled by the government. They have therefore made an additional effort, ladies and gentlemen, to stick the famous photograph of this budgetary adjustment a little more to the changing reality that it is responsible for photographing and including certain measures whose impact is known. I am thinking in particular of the measures which will allow brewers to recover the excise duty on destroyed beer stocks, or the support measures linked to the tax shelter for audiovisual and performing arts. I certainly forget certain measures, and I prefer the measures that we have introduced ourselves and which have been supported by other colleagues. I now come to the north-south transfers. Attention, watch out, watch out! Budgetary discussions are, of course, always an opportunity for some opposition colleagues today, but sometimes in the majority, to put on the table their chorus, their anti-women, and possibly their obsessions. An obsession is a disease that reaches the psyche and completely occupies the field of consciousness. You are smart enough and fine enough not to fall into this kind of obsession. I want to help you not fall into it. On this occasion, I would also like to mention a study carried out by a Frenchman, dated 21 June 2021. This study puts some things in place with respect to transfers. This study is here, we can tell you about it. In the second paragraph of this study, we immediately see – and this is valid in all countries – that each household is a net contributor or net beneficiary of interpersonal solidarity in a country. Thus, for Belgium, each geographical area of the country such as a district, a province, a Region, includes both net contributor households and others that are net beneficiaries. A geographical area is generally net contributor and overall net beneficiary. This flow of interpersonal solidarity shows that income redistribution through taxes and social security works rather well in Belgium, whether you want it or not. The provinces whose populations are, on average, net contributors to solidarity are the Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant, Eastern Flanders and the province of Antwerp. The populations of all other provinces, including Brussels, are net beneficiaries. But we must go further in detail and realize that in other countries where interpersonal solidarity works less well than at home, the flow of solidarity is different. In Germany, for example, the population of the Hamburg region contributes enormously, but also that of Bavaria in favour of the population of Sachsen-Anhalt, for example, which is a net beneficiary. In the Netherlands, the population of West-Nederland is a net contributor and that of Noord-Nederland is a net beneficiary. In Spain, the population of the Madrid community is a net contributor and the Noreste region is a net beneficiary. In all countries, including France, with the very high contribution of Île-de-France to all the other French regions, there is therefore this phenomenon of solidarity. You know that. If one is really interested in interpersonal flows in Belgium, one finds that the Walloon Brabant, Arlon, Waremme and Namur are net contributors to the municipalities of Ypres, Ostend and Dixmude. We could, no doubt, debate the hours – and that would really be a great pleasure for me – of all these calculations carried out in a scientific way and which appear in this study, sometimes allowing an emotional side to appear in our interventions. In any case, solidarity always takes place from those who have the most to those who have the least. Everything else, it's about getting your eyes on. Let us not forget that history is sometimes teasing and that any situation can quickly be reversed. No situation is frozen in time. There is no photograph in history. This is on the move, as is the case with this budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u16	Mrs Marghem, I would like to respond to your statement. You say it's all a matter of interpersonality. We should not look at transfers systemically, but we should approach them interpersonally, you say. Thus, Walloon Brabant is the richest province and Limburg is poor, considered macro-economically, on a macro-budgetary level. Yesterday I saw an interesting video of your chairman, Georges-Louis Bouchez, the new rebel to the firmament. In that video, in the city council of his city of Mons, we see that he wipes out the cloak of the mayor of Mons, who has had an absolute majority for twenty-four or maybe even thirty years. He does that in a fairly beautiful way, without uh or ah, it's well brought in beautiful French, that's what few imitate him. He systematically blames the PS for not being able to pull the Walloon region and all industrial basins, wherever the PS has an absolute majority, out of the valley. Mr Di Rupo has been in power in Wallonia with the PS for forty or fifty years and now opts for Ecolo, then again for MR and sometimes for cdH as a second partner. The PS can always choose, but always pulls the strings. However, the results for the people of Wallonia are completely inadequate, according to Mr Bouchez. So your chairman is suing a systemic approach himself. He himself says that Wallonia is in the back and for that he points to the PS. So Georges-Louis Bouchez actually confirmed our position in Mons city council last night. Our point is that Wallonia deserves better than the PS. The PS model ensures collective impoverishment and a deficit budget. The PS model provides the poverty rates and misery that exists massively in Wallonia. Mrs Marghem, I hear that your party chairman fully supports our position. So you should not start here about Walloon Brabant, Limburg, East Flanders and West Flanders. It's the model we're fighting. We will never tackle an individual Waal, Brusselser or French speaking. That's not our style. In our view, however, the way in which the Walloon Region and Brussels have become, among other things, so budget deficits is due to the PS model of public employment, non-activation but pampering and padding. That's one point. I should like briefly to make a second point, since I have the floor. I'd like to take advantage of that. I would have liked to have interviewed the PS, but the PS does not even speak in a budget debate. I'm not gonna get that chance. Mrs. Marghem, it's about your good friend and colleague in the government, Mrs. Ludivine Dedonder, Secretary of Defense. It's about her. I'd have liked to interpeal the PS, but I can't. So let me question you for a moment. We have tabled an amendment. I would like to hear you say that a budget is not easy, that we are now coming out of the crisis and that the government will ensure that the economy gets more wind in the sails, which I and everyone hope will. That's obvious. That objective is very important and I hope that it goes well. However, I agree with the remarks made by Mr Sander Loones, in particular that it will be very difficult to stop using activation. The MR is a party that defends Defense through Kattrin Jadin and Denis Ducarme, who do well in the Defence Committee. What shockes me greatly is that EUR 160 million is being drawn from the Defence budget in the current budgetary adjustment, although we have been holding debates for weeks and months on more money for Defence and on reinvestment in Defence. So my question is as follows. I know you are not a Defence expert, but I would have liked to ask the question to the PS, who does not even speak in the budget debate. How can it be that, on the one hand, you indicate that you will invest more in Defence and, on the other hand, that you will get EUR 163 million from the Defence budget in budgetary control? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u17	Mr Franken, I recognize you here! First of all, I worked with you in the government. Despite your temperament which, moreover, is quite close to mine - since we both have a well tempered character - you have sometimes had to accept compromises. That is what a government agreement is about. Until the last moment, it would have been good, but unfortunately you declined before the arrival. You were unable to conclude the last compromise, because you bowed too soon. If this episode had taken place a little closer to the elections, it would have served you better. That's what political life is all about! Mrs. Dedonder is not my friend, and I don't know the Defence stuff. I therefore leave it to my colleagues who have specialized in this field to deal with these topics which you are dealing with with with with great skill and on which you are right to intervene, since everyone must do so according to his or her convictions. I now come to my party president. That's another subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u19	Yes, really! I always say things as they are; I'm not going to start "pasturing" and telling things half accurate, but rather as I think they are. That's why I agree with you and I like your temperament that joins mine. In short, you spoke of Mr.Bouchez, who sits on a difficult communal council - like myself in Tournai - in the province of Hainaut, which is strongly affected by the various economic breaks caused by the industrial revolution or, more precisely, by the negative historical consequences of this once flourishing period. But the power relations were inverse in our country, since Wallonia was rich and made a huge contribution to the country. In short, history is still on the move, as you know. In any case, the Reform Movement wants Wallonia to recover and take control of itself. We've been saying this for years. I, who have been a Member of Parliament since 2003, daughter of independents, as I explained to you, have always repeated. And we will continue to do so! That is what you should encourage. I hope you encourage him in the speech, rather than say, "But you can see that we're right and that this Wallonia is miserable!" Don't say that, because we're in it, and we're trying to raise it up. Instead, say: "Let's encourage the Walloons to work and make them as bright as they are in some parts of Flanders." I continue to defend Mr. Dewael, whom you unjustly attacked earlier. I defend him all the better because my husband is Limburger. Of course, I can't accept that between Flemish people, you start saying: "But in the province of Antwerp, we are much richer than in Limburg!" Of course, I can't accept you saying, "Limburg is poor." Or say, "Limburg is poor and it enjoys the solidarity of the Walloon Brabant." Say that! That's what I can't accept!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Marghem. I see a lot of fingers getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u21	(...) Also my half wedding book is Limburgs. I'm gonna dot the "I" anyway. Firstly, there is no sign of equality between Mr Dewael and Limburg, I believe. He is, of course, a prominent representative of the constituency, let us be clear about that. Anyway, I quoted you. You always come here with the interprovincial and interpersonal story, when we discuss the transfers. Then the classic story is that Walloon Brabant is rich and Limburg poor. That's what you said. I didn't bring that out myself. We have a different model. We look at the policy-making capacity, and we say that, in our view, the Flemish model of governance, with the activation of job seekers, the compulsory integration of newcomers and with many other accents, is much more sustainable. That is what we want to see in Wallonia. Secondly, of course we support you. I will certainly support Mr Bouchez. I support Mr Bouchez very often, because I fully agree with, for example, his fight for neutrality. I hope he keeps playing hardball. We shall see how this issue will end in the end in the government. She'll know her course, of course. But you will always be able to count on us when Mr Bouchez makes statements that call for common sense. I couldn't agree more. So let him do it. It was just a remarkable passage in the city council of Mons, where he did talk about regional policy, and thus the whole Walloon policy, for thirty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u22	I think it is significant that the banks of the PS are now completely exhausted in the Community debate. I believe that the MR, more than the PS, is still one of our partners in rationalising such financial matters in Wallonia. Mrs Marghem, you are nevertheless trying to create some sort of division by raising that study. Divide and conquer. We Flemings don't let us play apart. You were talking about solidarity. Solidarity is, of course, organised in a close community, in a coherent public opinion. What did we see, for example, in the recent discussion on, among other things, the wage agreement? The socio-economic divide is, of course, on the language line. I can be very clear about solidarity. What is solidarity for us? Solidarity is: I, who take my portfolio, take money out of it and give it to a weaker, needy person. Flanders itself could decide to give money to Wallonia. But what is Belgian solidarity? That is: Wallonia draws money from Flanders' pockets. Let it be clear: if someone takes money out of my wallet without my permission, it is not solidarity but theft. That is the problem in Belgium: the transfers are not solidarity at all, they have a completely different dimension. You also referred to the Conciliation Committee for the stability programme. We questioned Minister Diependaele of the Flemish Government about the stability programme. On behalf of all the Länder, he says that the stability programme is an indicative, non-binding budget path for both entity I, the federal government and social security, as well as entity II, the Länder. He also said that the regional governments, including those of the Walloon region, the French Community and Brussels, had read but not approved that indicative route. In other words, these matters have simply been taken into account in the Conciliation Committee. So I'm glad you're quoting the subject yourself. It is my specific question to someone whose party is active in the Brussels Region, the French Community and the Walloon Region how we will manage to respond to Wallonia, the French Community and the Brussels Region in this country. How will we do that in the coming months and years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u23	Madam President, these exchanges on transfers take place systematically in the Finance Committee. As the debate resumes here, I cannot help but speak. It is a question of political vision. As far as transfers are concerned, the situation is much more complex than some people like to say. In socio-economic terms, Wallonia and Flanders do not really exist. We have taken the examples of Brabant and Limburg, the situation in Charleroi is not the same as in Brussels, Lier or Namur. It's quite normal, it's the same in every country. The situation is much more complex and nuanced than some nationalist parties are trying to explain. I will not go back to the figures, but we know that there are French-speaking regions in the country that are net contributors and others that receive from other regions. This is called interpersonal solidarity. As ecologists, we defend this principle with strength and vigour so that all Belgians can contribute in solidarity to the well-being of all Belgians. Ideally, this should even be done at European level. We want to be united at European level. More fundamentally, I come to the political vision. Nationalists base this debate on how to organize solidarity in a country on language and membership of a region. You organize it on the basis of birth criteria, language, culture. For us, this is a universal question. Whatever the status of this country, Wallonia will always be your neighbor. Having a Wallonia which is now less prosperous than Flanders and which is in difficulty in some basins, I have the impression that it makes you happy. I have the impression that you find this positive. So you have somewhere a common enemy – the word is a little loud – an opponent, a Region on which you can continually pour everything you don't like (management, the ruling parties, what do I know?) and how complicated, poorly managed this region has been for fifty years, etc. This allows you to sell your nationalist model: "In us, it's better, we're better and it's better. So we have to make ourselves at home." For us, environmentalists, this is exactly where the difference in political vision lies. For us, no Region has any interest in having a poorer neighbour or colleague or keeping him in trouble. No one has any interest in that. You know that the first customer in the port of Antwerp is Wallonia. The international image of Brussels, its prosperity and its international role benefit everyone in Belgium, and it is so much better, like the port of Antwerp! I am glad that this benefits everyone in Belgium. We do not make this difference because we think that it is together, whatever language we speak, whatever place we live and the moves we make in a lifetime, regardless of our diverse and varied family background, all this does not really matter in this debate. This is important in personal development, but not in this debate because it is a question of solidarity between human beings and of where we want to go together or not. I want to highlight this difference because we do not actually talk about it much in the debates in the Committee on Finance, because we are dealing with figures, transfers and the budget, which is normal. Behind it is a political vision which is completely opposite; there is our vision and yours which is based on this nationalist side which consists of saying: "At us, it is better. And so much the better, somewhere, if my neighbors are worse because so I can prove my groot gelijk, the fact that I'm right." Yes, there is a fundamental difference of political vision between us on this subject and I wanted to highlight it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u24	Madam President, in view of everything that has been said, I have no choice but to ask for the floor. I have heard many words and few figures. That is the difference between words and figures, but I would like to clarify a number of things. Mr Vanden Burre, I really resent your insinuation that certain Flemings or Flanders would not want to show solidarity. Flanders is keen to show solidarity, and it is. We prove that every day. The figures do not come from obsessed politicians, as Mrs Marghem says, but from professors. This week, the French-speaking economist Eric Dor.. said that his figures are not N-VA.................................................................................................................................................................................... So I really take offense at the implicit, burning claim that people are being turned against each other by us, that we would not want to show solidarity and have fun that Wallonia is not doing so well, because that is not right. It does not correspond to today's reality, nor to the reality of my party's programme. We have drawn up a very comprehensive confessional model, on which we have congregated and on which we have been working for a year and a half. International consultancy agencies have been involved in this. That is fully calculated and part of that confederalism is a very transparent solidarity mechanism. We are not doing anything completely innovative, we are looking at how solidarity is organised in other federal countries and in the European Union. We have looked at all this and we have chosen the most generous model of solidarity as our model of solidarity. So the facts don't confirm what you're saying about my party. We all benefit from the fact that everyone in the country is doing well, especially with Wallonia. I will build on that to respond to you, Mrs Marghem. You are insinuating that the transfers used to be in the opposite direction, but that is simply not right historically, economically and financially. That has been disproved many times. By the way, another very interesting publication was published this year at Doorbraak. I will buy you a copy, and I would very much like to give it to you at the next committee meeting. Does that mean I wouldn't hope it was different? Actually, I do. I would very much like us to find ourselves in a situation where transfers would go in the opposite direction, because that would mean that Wallonia is doing well. This would mean that solidarity, as it is called, is no longer necessary because Wallonia can stand on its own feet and one could do so perfectly on one's own. I have a third and final point, because the provincial reflex has come up here. A graph that is particularly relevant in this respect and brings it all together again is the graph on the efficacy level. How many people are working in this country? Mrs. Marghem, let's take a look at that by county. Your government says we're going to an employment rate of 80%. West Flanders, my province, has an employment rate of 79.5%. We're already here. According to your figures, West Flanders should get money, but anyone who can work in West Flanders works. We all work. Who's gonna follow after West Flanders? East Flanders, then Flemish Brabant, Antwerp and Limburg. All Flemish provinces score well. If we look at the South bellows, to put it in your words, that picture is unfortunately a little less. Who scores lower than the Flemish provinces? Walloon Brabant is at 71 %, Luxembourg about and then one comes in 60% with Namur, Liège and Hainaut. In Hainaut, 60% of the people who can work work work work. In Brussels it is 61 %. If you want to look at the real challenge, if you want to look at the solution, if we look at the future of this country, then it is there and then it is also in recognising those figures and actively getting to work with them. We can do that. Do you know how to do that? By implementing your own coalition agreement. Your own government agreement states that an asymmetric policy can be pursued so that policies for the labour market and other tailor-made policies can be set up in the different regions. It's in your coalition agreement. Mrs Crevits, Flemish Minister of Work, published an opinion document about two weeks ago in which she explicitly asked to do so. Give Flanders the opportunity to conduct a tailor-made policy. We're already high on the employment rate, but we want to do even better. Give that to Flanders, but give it to Wallonia as well. Carry out your own coalition agreement. The Flemish minister asks. It's in your coalition agreement. Just do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u25	Madam President, I have three points to mention. First of all, Mr Loones, I never said that the Flemish people were not in solidarity. The Flemish are in solidarity. I was talking about nationalists. In your speech, I have the impression that they no longer want to be supportive or less. It was not my party that poured Monopoly notes into Wallonia; it was not my party president who said that the Walloons were junkies who depended on Flemish money. At some point, history and words - which I spell m.o.t.s. - have an impact. I blame the nationalists for not wanting to be in solidarity, not the Flemish. Secondly, you are right about the employment rates for the provinces. I don't dispute the numbers. The stakes are there and you're right. But I want to be positive and constructive. I don't know exactly where you're from. Ah! From the coast. Indeed, I often see you in pictures with the sea behind you. Let us take a very prosperous region in Belgium, which I welcome, namely Courtrai. The unemployment rate is at the rate of renewal of work, i.e. of memory around 4.5%. The region next door is Mrs Marghem's, that of Tournai-Mouscron, where unfortunately the employment rates you mentioned are a little lower. I do not ask for much more intensive exchanges between these regions. It works at all levels: training, languages, etc. My party asks that the teaching of Dutch as a second language in Wallonia be automatic again. We ask for it forcefully, but we are not alone. You know how it all works. There, there are bridges to collaborate between regions within our country. This example is relevant. Thirdly, Europe. You are talking about transfers to other European countries. If your political plan to separate Belgium comes true one day - which I do not think, but it is your political project - Flanders will also have to stand in solidarity with other regions in Europe and this solidarity will be at least as important as that which you are living today, but for regions that are sometimes more distant. Somewhere, your reasoning is not consistent. Again, I really want to be constructive and make sure we move forward together. There are challenges, there is work to be done in this regard. From then on, stop riding the regions and people against each other. There are enough ways to work together in this country so that together we can move towards a better employment rate and better solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u26	Mr Van Hees, I propose that you speak very briefly if not your speech. Then Mr Vermeersch will come, very, very briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u27	Madam Chair, I think my speech comes after that of the CD&V, if at least the CD&V intervenes. So I am not going to make my speech now, except to burn the politeness of Mr Mathei. But I want to speak in this debate as the only representative of the national party in this House, in other words the only party that does not play on the divisions between Communities but plays on solidarity... [[brouhaha]] If you just had the decency to let me talk, it would be kind. ...As the only party that aims at solidarity between citizens and is against all the community divisions that have made this country a totally unmanageable institutional lasagna following multiple reforms of the state. These reforms, even some parties of the majority, are beginning to question them. Even the MR is beginning to think that, in the end, this whole institutional lasagna may not be the ideal way to function. I hear about transfers, the usual ritournelle of flaming parties. However, I invite you to look at the list of the ten largest billionaires in this country, and you will see that this list contains as many Francophones as Dutch speakers. You even have the typical example, namely the most powerful multinational in Belgium, AB InBev, made up of Flemish and French-speaking employers who have come together, through a secret alliance, to make more profit. Capital, on the other hand, has no community problems. But it is a part of the capitalists who like to create it among the people. To try to dominate and exploit it, it is indeed better to divide it from false problems and false transfers. They try, but it doesn't work very well. Indeed, recent surveys show that the main idea guiding the population is the return to a federal system. Therefore, your nationalistic demagogy is not very effective, including in Flanders. Let's raise it up, but that's obviously your problem. Instead of those supposed transfers, I'd like to talk to you about the ones that really exist. These are those who pass from labor to capital. If you look at the national accounts and the distribution of GDP, you will see that the wage share in national income has been declining for years, or even decades, while the share of profits and capital continues to grow. These are not small amounts: we are talking about transfers in billions of euros! In the years of the Michel government alone - in which the N-VA sat - the transfer amounts to 9 billion euros, coming from the pockets of the workers towards those of the employers. If you go back to the beginning of the neo-liberal wave, which is at the origin of all measures such as wage blockade, the Dehaene-Di Rupo Act of 1996, etc., you will find that 30 billion have been transferred from the pockets of the workers to the pockets of the employers. I'm not talking about 30 billion over the whole period, I'm talking about 30 billion a year! So these are the real transfers that are being made in this country. Unfortunately, and as I will show in my presentation on fiscal adjustment, the Vivaldi government maintains this same framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u28	The advantage of such discussions is, of course, that certain parties show the back of their tongues. I'd like to respond to colleague Vanden Burre. So far he has stressed twice in his interruption the meaning and nonsense of the Belgian so-called solidarity and the transfers and has shown that the Socialists and the Greens in the government are absolutely in favour of transfers within the European Union. I wonder whether all the Liberals agree that the Socialists and the Greens are actually in favour of exporting the Belgian transfer model, where Wallonia is, of course, a net recipient. They want to export to Europe, which must become a transfer union for them, a Belgium of great importance. It is an important observation here in the debate on inter-Belgian so-called solidarity that the Socialists and the Greens really want to go much further. They want them even from Flanders to Greece or from Flanders to Spain or to other southern European bottomless wells. I take note of that and it is good that such a debate takes place, because then a number of parties show the back of their tongues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u29	Madam President, I must say that I still feel welcome here after this fascinating debate as a Limburger. To give an ode to Limburg, with the approval of Mr Dewael, I will make my speech with a Limburg tongue trap. If there is one term to describe the budget and budgetary control, it is an atypical budgetary control. That is also the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, and that of course has everything to do with the situation in which we find ourselves because of the whims of COOVID-19. This situation also gives rise to very fluctuating figures. If we look at the figures of the Planning Office for economic growth at the beginning of the year, the counter was first at 4.2 %. Recently the figure was raised to 5.5 %; at the same time we read in the newspaper today that, according to Voka, a large wave of bankruptcies and rising unemployment is coming towards us. We also see that the effects in the sectors are very unevenly distributed. Inflation is also rising. In short, in such fluctuating circumstances there is now an adjustment of the budget. In this context and in the analysis of the Court of Auditors, there are two large red threads: on the one hand constant uncertainty, on the other hand the need to revive our economy. As for uncertainty as a constant, the recession today was caused not by an imbalance in the economy, but by a virus. That is very important, because that is to say, I agree with Mr Marghem that the approach and control of the virus is also essential for our budgetary situation and for our budget. In this respect, it is important to emphasise that with the vaccination campaign in our country, we are in fourth place in Europe on the number of doses of +18 year olds, after Malta, Hungary and Finland. Flanders even goes head-on, to put it with a cycling term. The vaccination campaign is very important and brings us to the second thread, namely the revival of the economy. At the moment we have used the recipe to play briefly on the ball, by taking temporary, important measures. The National Bank confirms that these have been essential. On the other hand, the government, with its ministers and secretaries of state, is also putting structural measures in place; I refer to all kinds of reforms and investments, remember yesterday's communication on the Next Generation EU Fund. All these measures should help to revive the economy. The uncertainty and the important objective of reviving the economy are, of course, reflected in the budget and in budgetary control. We have had all the committees tell us about this. In this respect, the CD&V Group is very pleased that the government's amendments have been amended to allow for the most up-to-date budgeting, including the VAT reduction in the catering industry and the abolition of excise duties on beer. We are also pleased with a number of new measures that take perfectly what is needed now, such as cybersecurity and tackling social fraud. At the same time, the government is working on what was in the scaffolding in the autumn of last year. At least until the end of this year, the scenarios remain unpredictable. It is absolutely important that we get the virus under control and that we get the necessary stability. Meanwhile, we are expressing our clear support for the government and the Secretary of State for short-term measures, as well as for the long-term measures with reforms for sustainable growth, with digital conversion, with investment and with the approach to the budget deficit if everything is stabilised. We are therefore expressing our support for this budget change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u30	This is a budgetary exercise under particularly exceptional circumstances, but a budgetary exercise which is still quite indicative of a certain policy. I would like to touch on nine points. My first point is entitled "A liberal more Catholic than the pope". It must be noted that it took a global disaster with, unfortunately, millions of victims around the world to put austerity policies in brackets in our country. I am referring here to fiscal austerity because the wage austerity to which I referred on the occasion of the improvised debate earlier is still in effect. I refer here to the wage freeze imposed by the Dehaene-Di Rupo Act of 1996. This, moreover, is still the subject of debate, particularly among trade unions and the general public. This adjustment does not include additional budgetary austerity. But the Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs De Bleeker, has already announced a triple of austerity for 2022. This is not in the multi-year budget exercise under discussion. This is a statement she made in the press. In any event, the Secretary of State is a more Catholic liberal than the European Commission's austerity pope, who recommends a prudent fiscal policy, while saying that, in the circumstances of the pandemic, it will not fall back again. She will therefore leave it open, while Mrs De Bleeker wants to triple the effort in 2022 compared to 2021. Instead of the fixed effort of 0.2% of GDP, it advocates an effort of 0.6%, i.e. a fixed effort of 0.2% plus a variable effort of 0.4%. I asked yesterday in committee the Minister of Finance, who had already warned that he would not be here today, unfortunately, whether that was the view of the Secretary of State alone or whether he himself shared that view and those objectives. Were these the government's objectives, too? You know that the Minister of Finance sometimes has hearing and hearing problems when there are questions he doesn't want to answer. Sometimes he has a little problem hearing them. It seems to me that, if there is one lesson that should be learned from the coronavirus crisis, it is that some services (public services, social security) are essential to the population. Had they not existed, in this crisis, the disaster we have experienced in our country would have been multiplied. It would have been unimaginable if we had not had social security and public services. But we can see directly this tendency to come back with austerity policies, which are attacking them. For example, CAPAC was not able to cope with the payment of the unemployed. We still see the movements in the nurses. We could multiply the examples and give dozens of them. This austerity policy and understaffed public services have dramatic consequences. Obviously, we continue with this logic, to believe Mrs De Bleeker's option. But let's hope it's only his personal option and not that of the government. We'll see what this one decides. I would call the second point I want to address "The over-use of under-uses". The under-uses are a funny beast. During these budgetary debates, the opinion of the Court of Auditors was pointed out. In the latter, on page 66, there is a passage in which the Court points out that, by means of the second budgetary adjustment, the government allows itself to draw on the staff appropriations of the FPS Finances to provide a corona fund for companies, funds set up by the European Investment Bank. In the Court's view, the aim was to avoid any infringement of the political and financial credibility of the scheme. You see the topo! The government says it is putting an option on part of the budget to pay FPS Finance officials. We'll use it for anything else, to pay a fund for businesses. The Court of Auditors stated that it was not budgetaryly correct as a method, that this undermined the transparency of the budget. But at the same time, she minimized the problem by saying: "FPS Finance personnel credits are generally under-used." This under-utilization is an interesting concept. We are voting on budgets that are already lagged by austerity and this austerity, we are adding an additional austerity that is an under-utilization. This is not a small amount. Over the entire federal budget, there is an underutilization of 1.1 billion. The Minister of Finance explained that this under-utilization of the FPS staff budget was normal because when you hire people with personnel credits, you don't know how to hire everyone in the year. It is therefore normal that there should be a balance. He was thanked for the explanation, except that during the debate in the Social Affairs Committee on the budgetary adjustment of the Employment SPF, Minister Dermagne said: "With regard to the ONEM in particular, the ONEM was allowed to reduce its under-utilization of appropriations in respect of corona staff appropriations". Underutilization is in fact a deliberate policy of this government - compared to budgets already revised downwards in a policy of austerity even though it is limited for 2021 - to add further austerity to austerity. The third point I would like to address is entitled 'Forgotten Corona Aids'. We could also call it the tax time bomb. Covid-19 has shown the crucial role of public services and social security in dealing with such a crisis. We know that the government has spent billions to help all victims of the Corona crisis, but not everyone benefits in the same way, especially the employees who had the misfortune of being unemployed in 2020 because of the crisis. To these, we made a false gift in 2020, as they were told they would get more net because their professional discount was going to be reduced to 15%. At the beginning, at the moment, it was indeed good news but it turned into very bad news with the arrival of the role-extract warning. More and more people are already seeing, by introducing their tax returns, that the professional discount has simply been reduced by not paying anything at the level of final taxation. This economic unemployment will therefore be globalised with other incomes and the "painful" will sometimes be felt at the level of 1 000, 1 500 or 2 000 euros of additional tax! I have asked the Minister of Finance many times whether the government will change the situation. Each time, he replied negatively, stating that he strictly applied the tax rules. However, the solution is simple: it would be enough to tax this corona unemployment separately – for example, at 15% – so that no tax supplement would follow. It is so simple that it is the solution for which the government has opted with regard to the unemployment of the self-employed, which is the right bridge. Thus, in the summer of 2020, by a circular, it decided that it would be taxed separately. We are therefore trying to understand the difference: why what is valid for the self-employed – and we are delighted that they can benefit from this measure! – does it not apply to unemployed employees? The Minister of Finance then replied that an independent and an employee was not the same. That's his level of response! I can't imagine what he'd say if I asked him if it's normal for women to get a lower salary than men. Would he retort me that "women and men are not the same thing"? This lack of response to a problem of discrimination – which worries thousands of people – is of course worrying. For this reason, we are introducing an amendment to include in this fiscal year a separate taxation of coronary unemployment in 2020. The fourth part of my speech could be entitled "Search alternative financing for alternative financing". Indeed, for years, the alibi of competitiveness has not only been used to block wages, but also to multiply gifts to employers, in particular in the form of wage subsidies, especially those granted at the expense of social security. For this reason, it was necessary to invent alternative financing of the latter, consisting mainly of VAT revenues. However, it is an unfair tax since, paradoxically, it affects the social beneficiaries in order to finance social security, which will then pay them their allowances. In short, the social beneficiaries must themselves finance, via VAT, the allowances they receive. Today we can see that VAT has been used so much that it is no longer enough! There is no longer enough VAT to feed the various caisses. It is necessary to draw, for example, from the income of the professional discount. Except that the professional discount itself is an instrument used for wage subsidies through the mechanism of professional discount exemptions. It is a mechanism in which the employer collects the tax on the wages of his workers to give it to the tax authorities, but he can keep a part, sometimes very important, for himself. Every year, it increases. In 2005, this amounted to EUR 200 million per year and in the adjusted 2021 budget, EUR 3.6 billion, or 18 times more. The strongest is that the Court of Auditors is quite critical of this system of professional discount exemptions. As a result, the government decided to put in place a spending review, an expenditure analysis, to see if they are truly justified. The Secretary of State has made a commitment to do so, but we have not yet seen any line of this spending review on professional discount exemptions. In the meantime, we already have two more categories of professional discount exemptions! Today we reach 3.6 billion euros in gifts to the employers through this system. The fifth item is entitled "The miraculous manna for pensions". We had very good news: we found money to increase minimum pensions! The government has provided 187 million to increase the minimum pension, but it is also known that it is too little to reach a pension of 1,500 euros net. When we look at the budget before us, the pension expenditure estimates for employees are down by €640 million compared to the original budget. We are told that this development is mainly due to an overestimation in the initial budget of the increase in the number of pensioners in 2021. The conclusion is therefore simple: here we have a manna of 640 million euros which can be used directly and now to increase the pension to 1,500 euros net. A manna that happens a little by chance. I announced this good news in committee to the Secretary of State for the Budget but, obviously, she did not pass the message on to the Minister of Pensions. I didn't hear anything about an acceleration of the pace to reach a pension of 1,500 euros net. My sixth point could be referred to as "articulate budgetary opacity". Already during the initial discussions, a massive and historic recourse to the use of interdepartmental provisions had been denounced, these large tote envelopes for which an overall amount is expected to be spent on all expenditure. So all the new expenditures and investments that were in the initial budget in 2021 were in those envelopes. These interdepartmental provisions are the antithesis of a genuine fiscal year. They are a violation of one of the fundamental principles of a budget, which is the speciality, as the Court of Auditors points out every year. In this case, we reach a historical level. At the initial stage, there were four large provisions for a total of 2.7 billion euros. It is said that with fiscal adjustment, the situation is a little better known and that the government will reduce this mechanism, which is in fact an obstacle to parliamentary control. Indeed, the government does what it wants; it does not give any details and uses these budget envelopes as it sees fit. It is therefore thought that with the adjustment, we will have less of these interdepartmental provisions, and not the reverse: from 2.7 billion euros, they increase to 3.3 billion euros. The summit is what the Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne, is doing. Here, in the budget law which is debated, there is no detail, neither on the expenditure on justice, nor on the other expenditure, but the Minister of Justice prepares two royal decrees in which he communicates a certain detail, but less details than those which would be found in the budget. We come to this crazy situation, in which we have a completely opaque budget and for which no parliamentary control is possible. And we have a minister, who eventually gives some royal orders, but he makes them as he pleases. He wants to give some information and not others. We're here. I don't know what to call this diet. It is a "Banana Monarchy" in which ministers do things as they want, despite all the rules of parliamentary control. When you see the planned expenses of justice, you fall from your chair! There is a clear lack of staff in the justice system: it lacks judges, clerks, etc. And what does the Minister of Justice have in mind? To hire 70 managers for justice. What will they manage? They will manage the lack of resources to which their own position will ultimately contribute, since instead they could have hired 70 magistrates or clerks or others. My seventh point could be called "our friends pharmaceutical multinationals". After the 70 managers of Minister Van Quickenborne - coming from a liberal minister, it is not surprising - we find a somewhat similar approach in the Socialist Minister of Health Franck Vandenbroucke, who plans a million euros a year to pay experts in order to better negotiate with the multinationals of the medicine, with the aim of achieving a small savings of 28 million euros. This amount, in relation to the drug budget of social security, is obviously very little. Drug prices will hardly fall while, if the Kiwi model defended for years by the PTB is applied, it is not 28 million that could be saved at the expense of multinational pharmaceutical companies but 400 million, or 14 times more. It is understandable that the Socialist minister's law does not go any further, when he himself admits that he wrote this law with the multinational drug industry. I thought the Liberal Finance Ministers were writing tax laws or having them written by multinationals, but not: here too, in the field of health, they helped to write this law, and he himself acknowledged it. It is not surprising that the result is so low in budgetary terms, or 28 million where we could have 400 with the kiwi model. This kiwi model recently received a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors, which is very favourable. It is an easy-to-implement system that guarantees good quality medicines, cheap medicines, etc. We have a solution that is validated by the Court of Auditors, but we prefer to make a law riquiqui with the collaboration of the multinationals of the medicine. My eighth point could be called "setting an objective with the ambition not to achieve it". An important point in the budget is the question of investment. It is also one of the major construction sites of Vivaldi. The government was very proud yesterday, with the President of the European Commission, to receive European support and even the congratulations of the President of the European Commission on the establishment of the European Investment Bank, which represents 5.9 billion. As far as the European Commission's congratulations are concerned, I am still in doubt. In this case, I have four doubts about this investment plan. 1. The money "given" - it is money that we are going to pay back - by the European Union is conditional on the implementation of reforms. When we look at what kind of reforms it is, without surprise, they are typically liberal reforms. Madam Secretary of State, you are obviously not disturbed by liberal reforms. I don't know. But I understood that there were still other sensitivities in the government. 2. Compared to this plan, 5.9 billion is public investment, but the largest part is in fact public investment to finance private companies. Here too, we are in a typically liberal logic. I shall repeat the same thought: it is quite surprising, especially when we know that the investment issue is handled by a socialist secretary of state. 3. Given the institutional lasagna, there is a clear lack of coherence in the plans of the different regions and the federal government. Many projects are simply old projects that drag into boxes. 4. Last but not least, the level of these investments is really not up to the challenges, social issues, climate issues in terms of mobility. This is really insufficient in terms of the amount of investment. Looking at this fiscal adjustment, it is clear that the government is not meeting its own target. The government has set itself a public investment level target, saying that by 2030 we want to reach a 4% public investment rate in relation to GDP. But the intermediate target is 3.5% at the end of the legislature. We did the math. Even Secretary of State Dermine is obliged to admit it: to reach this 3.5%, the investments are not enough. There is a need for 16 billion more investments under the legislature. So the 5.9 billion in Europe is not enough. If we take over federal power, even if we add to the European dimension the few meagre investments that are planned, we do not reach 3.5% by 2024. For the federal government alone, $1.7 billion is missing. If there is the same shortage at the regional level, this amount can be multiplied by five, since the federal share represents about one fifth of the total investment. In terms of investment, we are therefore well below the government's target, but above all well below the societal stakes we are facing today. I will conclude my speech with a ninth item entitled "Who doesn't want to win billions?" You know that the PTB defends a better taxation of big fortunes and multinationals rather than always charging the population. So far, there was a bit of a feeling of preaching in the desert, but with the crisis of coronavirus, the position of the PTB is increasingly shared in Belgium as in the world. But this is also the case with what could be called the typical representatives of the establishment. Indeed, the IMF has launched this idea. Peter Praet, the former Chief Economist of the European Central Bank, also defends the Bank. Joe Biden, in particular under the influence of the left of the Democratic Party, also put forward ideas of this kind. We are moving forward with these ideas. It remains to be seen whether the Belgian government is also making progress. A particularly important point with regard to the issue of charging multinationals is the G7 agreement on a global minimum tax rate for multinationals of 15%. This percentage is obviously far too low. Economist Thomas Piketty said it was a fraud permit for the most powerful actors. But even with this 15%, tax revenues in Belgium could be increased by EUR 10 billion, according to the European Tax Observatory led by Gabriel Zucman. The EUR 10 billion that comes every year is obviously very good news. However, this information is also worrying about the Belgian tax system. Indeed, our country is ranked first in the European ranking established by Gabriel Zucman's study, since it is our public finances that would benefit most from this global minimum rate of 15%, in absolute terms. We are therefore far ahead of France or Germany, whose respective economies are six to eight times more powerful than ours. This is worrying, because our taxation is going through huge loopholes. The imposition of a minimum rate to ensure that multinationals do not benefit from tax havens would pay so much. Of course, we have seen a slightly different study by a FPS Finance official, who estimates that this measure would be a 75 to 102 million euro gain, which is 100 times less than the European Tax Observatory's estimate. Under these conditions, what would a normally constituted Minister of Finance do? First of all, he would worry about that difference. If its administration estimates that this measure would yield a hundred times less than what the European Tax Observatory has announced, there are some questions: will 100 million or 10 billion be collected? Excuse me, but there's a margin between the two! A normally constituted Finance Minister would then analyse our tax system to identify the intrinsic problems that make us the top of the list of European states in terms of the impact of such a measure. He wondered why Belgium was itself a tax haven or how that provision was used to supplement other provisions such as definitively taxed income or the exemption of financial gains in the policy of multinationals to resort to tax havens. Well, no! Obviously, Mr. Van Peteghem is not a normally appointed finance minister, since he told me in committee that he was not concerned about it and that he would see what the G7 and G20 would decide, and then he would follow the movement without looking at the real situation in our country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced, on the one hand, with a fiscal policy that is more Catholic than the European Pope in terms of austerity imposed on the population and, on the other hand, with excessive timidity vis-à-vis multinationals, whether it is the multinationals of the medicine that are very powerful in this country or all the multinationals – one does not exclude the other – who abuse tax havens. We know this is the case for the vast majority of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a figure person, but I will not repeat the report on the work in committee and my comments here. As Liberals, of course, we are in favour of freedom and progress, in favour of tackling it and not taking it away. In order not to repeat the discussion that took place earlier, I would like to say the following. For us, hell is not the others, and hell is not the others. I shall return to this budgetary control. Of course, we are in a worrying situation, with EUR 500 billion of public debt and a primary deficit that will reach more than 5%. That means we're spending 10% more than we're receiving. That's a situation that takes us back to the '80s. We are, of course, coming out of an unprecedented health crisis where unseen government intervention was needed to help our economic and social fabric. I will deal with two themes. How do we deal with the balance path now? That won't be an easy journey. I also look at the underlying problem of our budget, especially in Belgium, which we hardly dare to talk about. What's the next move? The central question is, of course, how action has been taken in recent years and what kind of aid has been granted. If this aid is temporary and does not involve recurrent expenditure, it is a challenge, even if it is a challenge to repay it. Everyone will say that inflation is limited or not. Let us be honest: zero rate inflation is a hidden capital tax as a means of financing. However, if this government intervention is more structural, with the focus on financing recurrent expenditure, the picture changes completely. In that respect, I am much more concerned. Much support is sector-specific and runs the risk of being considered an acquired right by some after the corona crisis. Then I am not just talking about the various VAT reductions and the setting up and extension of certain favor regimes. What should continue to apply temporarily also needs to be phased out in good time. That means rehab for some. That's never obvious. We cannot systematically extend the account of these deficits, not only of the coviddeficit, for us either. The effort we have to make now is already far greater than that of the Dehaene governments. That's how De Tijd copied yesterday. On top of that, we all know that pension reforms are needed in order to continue to pay pension accounts. I am very pleased that Mrs De Bleeker, also a figure person, has put the spending reviews high on the agenda. It should also be one of the tasks to further consider how we can improve and increase our budgetary techniques and discipline. It is not just about expenditure, but, since we are discussing a budget of resources, it is also about revenue. VOKA has just issued a very interesting report on the sustainability of our public finances. It rightly points out that we can learn from the best practices of our neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, the Centraal Planbureau and the Ministry of Finance have to assess the proceeds independently and, in the event of a substantial difference, look for the differences together. In Germany there is in principle a consensus between the various institutions. The United Kingdom goes even further, because it has an independent office for budget response, which calculates several years. We must also devote more time to testing the predictions to the realizations, in order to learn further from them. The second point I would like to stress is that our society, our society, is counting on all the risks being passed on to the State, because politics often claims that it will, of course, solve them, which it cannot. This is how democratic politics organises its own defeat. Let us therefore use this period to further improve the functioning of our state. A well-thought-out re-launch policy comes first. This means that all compensation schemes will be phased out as soon as possible, and it also means targeted investment in infrastructure and new sectors combined with labour market reform, as we all want. However, a truly sustainable solution also lies in a well-thought-out and cautious role of the state to make the market the engine of recovery. Let us therefore continue, as with the spending review, with the fine comb through our state spending. As a result, not only can we put the budget in order, implement fair fiscal reform and create policy space to learn, where necessary, from the mistakes that we ourselves made during the Corona process, but also the spending review offers the political opportunity to clearly define what is or is not within its scope, and to implement and implement it in this way. Through the unbridgeable delivery gap between what one promises and what one can do, one allows the unease to flourish. I conclude with the words of master strategist von Clausewitz who wrote that the retreat is the most difficult of all operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u32	Mr Leysen, I think that liberalism in Open Vld, in particular, has made its retreat as a result of the entry of this government. You are going to be very easy about what Voka said this week. I don't know if you read that press release correctly. I certainly did it. In fact, in between the rules, Voka completely burns down the budgetary policy of the purple-green government, of your government. I would like to mention four points in their press release. I would like to know your reaction to that. Firstly, Voka calls for structural reforms to restore the health of public finances. The government wants to bring the employment rate to 80%, but there is no concrete measure for this. The fraud plan has now been proposed. 29 points were proposed to tackle fraud, but it is also unclear how these hundreds of millions of euros will ever be achieved in the budget, even for this year or that billion in 2024. The same applies to pension reform. Secondly, Voka insists that the coalition agreement be passed on. After all, the budget table of purple-green is a big joke, which even the Prime Minister does not get out of, and he is also your party's. Thirdly, budgetary measures should in turn be calculated independently in order to avoid being proposed too brightly. That's a clear statement to your government. We talked about this in the discussion with the photo. You're using a flower filter over that budget and you're covering it up. You represent the situation very brightly. Not only do we say that, but so does the Court of Auditors. Fourthly, budgetary discipline must be enforceable at all levels of government. We have heard the Socialists and the Greens in your government here. They argue in favour of exporting the Belgian model. They openly advocate European solidarity, a European social security, a European transfer union. In fact, Europe must become Belgium in size. Mr. Leysen, have you understood the play between Voka's rules? How do you respond to these four concrete proposals from the Flemish employers' organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u33	Mr Leysen, I have not heard anything in your speech about the point on which I have tabled an amendment. Since you are also from Antwerp, I would like to ask you whether you can say something about this. I don't know if you read De Standaard of Gazette of Antwerp yesterday, but there was an urgent appeal from the Forum of Jewish Organisations not to abandon the Jewish community from 1 September. The government has decided to stop Operation Vigilant Guardian, with troops on the street. We regret that as there is still an increased level of threat. However, the government has not taken concrete steps for this community. Minister Verlinden does say that she is in contact with those people but they say, like the French-speaking Jewish organization, that they have not received any indication from the government. That surprises me and makes me sad. I have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that at least the technical and personal security of that community, which lives with an increased threat of terror, can be guaranteed. It's a relatively small amount, if we take it against what we spend in this country for security and police. If all costs for police and defence are put together, this amounts to almost EUR 10 billion a year. I hope that this government can also make way for a mere three million. It concerns the security of sites facing an increased threat of terror. The OCAD is an independent body, a neutral organisation, which makes a threat analysis based on information from security services from around the world and its own analyses. For a number of sites, terrorist level 3 applies. The soldiers disappear on September 1st, but the threat of terror does not disappear. How can we leave those people who are asking for security, the primary task of the government, in the cold? I therefore ask you, as well as all my fellow Members, to support the amendment that we have tabled. This would show that one can transcend politics, especially when it comes to people's security. These are people who have not asked to wake up with an increased level of threat to their community. It's a basic right of every parent to know that his child is safe at school. How can the government say to these people that they have to make it themselves, while the OCAD states that they are in an increased level of threat of terror? Level 3 means that the threat is real. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I would like to put the same question to the French-speaking Members. I believe this is important for the security of a Jewish community that has been in Belgium for hundreds of years. OCAM says the level of terror is high (level 3), which means that an attack is possible and probable. How can we tell her that we withdraw the troops and that she has to manage? That's not right! That is why I have introduced an amendment. I am asking for EUR 3 million and with this sum, we can show that the government is going beyond political games. My question is for everyone: will you support this amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u34	If you don't have your mayor's phone number, which is primarily responsible for security, I can give it to you. We all know that the road is long and difficult. There are many challenges. Voka, where I have also been on the board of directors, is an important party indicating slopes on which to work. It is our job to see to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u35	Mr President, Mr Leysen, this is not the time for political games. No way! No thanks, we can clap together, and that's my intention. Let's clap together. I can get to you. I can shake your hand. Let's work together here. Antwerp already invests millions, many employees, to protect the Jewish community. I know, I'm also working on it on a daily basis to see if there are any incidents. So the mayor of Antwerp stands there and is always ready. We are now asking for the same thing at this level. Surely you cannot say that you will leave it entirely to the local levels? Besides, there is also an increased threat of terror in Brussels. So that's where we have to go. Get up, look me in the eye. Mr Leysen, I speak to you. At least I'm asking for some respect. This is too important for political games. If something happens tomorrow, if there is an attack and there is an increased threat of terror, who is going to say, "Oh, if only we had listened, we would have provided the necessary resources!" This is really too important and I am going to moderate my tone. I shouldn't get mad at you, and I still want to reach out to you, really. This isn't supposed to happen, and I think we can do better. Better for your party, better for my party, better for everyone. More time for political games, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, it has already been said that it is inevitable that a budget does not reflect the very latest state of affairs. Especially in times like today, with continuous changes and changes, that is very difficult. The debate has been about this for a large part. Just look at the support measures. They have been extended more often than anyone could have suspected. In general terms, it can be said that the government maintains the policy set out. That does not change with this budgetary adjustment. The focus for 2021 remains, as originally foreseen, on achieving the necessary resources and measures to address both the health crisis and the economic crisis as well as to give the necessary oxygen to our companies and SMEs. That is also logical, of course, because we are already well advanced in the health crisis. The economic crisis, on the other hand, is still under way and will take some time. However, there is a certain volatility that we cannot deny. It is still present for both crises. This is also apparent from the fact that the latest forecasts of the Federal Planning Office are also referred to the trash can. According to the explanatory memorandum, the impact of the co-vid measures in 2021 is more than EUR 7 billion, which is a huge amount. By 2020, this impact amounted to around €15.5 billion. This results in a deficit of EUR 30 billion in 2021, a deterioration of almost EUR 5 billion compared to the initial budget. That is correct, but that is, of course, because many measures have not yet been included in the initial budget. This shows the atypical situation we are in and how difficult it is to draw up the budget and budgetary adjustment. The focus in this respect is, therefore, mainly on adjusted estimates and formalising the budgetary presentation of the necessary decisions taken by the government within the envisaged budgetary framework. Nor is it so strange or exceptional that the federal government makes the budgetary control in such a way. For example, we see a lot of similarities here at the Flemish level. The adaptation of the Flemish budget for 2021 is also a technical operation. There are also a lot of estimates. This is seen, for example, in the operational appropriations for education and in the distribution of the relay fund. There, too, we see a series of technical interventions. There's no remodeling either. The budget minister at the Flemish level, Minister Diependaele, himself says that 2021 is not an ordinary financial year after all and that it should also be dedicated to the revival. There too, the message is quite the same. The Flemish level of policy assumes that the reduction of a number of temporary measures, I admit, are not of the same order of magnitude as here, and the normalization of the sanitary situation and the economic situation, will, in part, automatically stabilise. Also in the federal exercise is that line. The nominal deficit will be reduced from 7.7 % this year to 3.7 % in 2024. The federal government, as it now seems, in these particularly uncertain times, will do more than halve the deficit. That logic is actually very similar to what the Flemish government is doing. Ladies and gentlemen, there are undoubtedly still a lot of budgetary debates to come. I don't want to take too long. It's almost lunchtime for many. There may be even more interesting debates. Debates in which more real choices are made, or real lines are drawn. Now we are in uncertain times and, above all, we are making some technical adjustments. There is no doubt that this is what we all assume - other debates on the budget and budgetary adjustment, based on more stable figures and less on insinuation. Now it's going a little bit all over the place. I have heard colleagues say that this is about blind savings. Others find it irresponsible to throw all that money through windows and doors. The debate is going a bit in all directions. I see, above all, a technical adjustment in atypical times. For the reasons I have just mentioned, my group will in any case approve this budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u37	Mr President, I would just like to make a preliminary statement. It was Mrs Tillieux who presided, you were not there at the beginning of the sitting, but I would like to say that I found the intervention of the Minister of Justice at the beginning of the sitting particularly disrespectful of Parliament in view of what happened yesterday. I had already understood that the government wanted to bypass Parliament by arrogating its powers to the maximum, but it must be noted that some ministers in any case would also wish to turn Parliament into a button press. Let me say this here because once again I find the attitude of some ministers particularly disrespectful. With regard to adjustment, it is true that it goes a little unnoticed in the public debate. Yet I heard Mrs Marghem say earlier that the budget photo was a little blurry. I therefore think it is important to dare to make a lucid diagnosis by redrawing elements of clarity and sharpness on this budget photograph. Indeed, our country's fiscal position in terms of public finances is historic. Undoubtedly, in peacetime, Belgium will not have experienced such a deficit two consecutive years. At the end of 2021, for entity 1 alone, once all the measures announced by the government have been taken into account in the budget, the deficit in the SEC financing balance is expected to be around EUR 33 billion, which is comparable to what the state will have to look for in the financial markets in order to finance its expenditure. This is a huge amount of money to borrow for our country, given the structure of our public finances. As a reminder, the federal government's SEC revenues are expected to reach approximately $119 billion in 2021. This means that the government is about to borrow from the financial markets about a quarter – a quarter! – of the amount of these revenues, just to run the shop. In addition to these amounts, there is of course the renewal of the debt, i.e. in the order of EUR 21 billion. In short, for the year 2021, the Federal Debt Agency will aim to find on the financial markets a gross balance to be financed from 54 to 55 billion euros: a situation which is quite unprecedented and figures that give the turn. This situation, we must and you must ensure, must remain exceptional for the country. However, several additional indicators are also called for. For the time being – and fortunately – the current complacency of the financial markets with regard to this situation seems to be in order, in particular because of a particularly accommodative monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Let us be careful, however, because waking up will be more difficult. What will happen when monetary policy is less permissive? What will be the case in the event of a significant increase in interest charges owed by all entities in the country? This fear is also expressed in watermark of the last opinion of the Supreme Council of Finance. Another indicator of concern is the structural ESA financing balance. Based on the projections in this area, it appears that the structural deficit is expected to remain large in 2024. With the health and economic crisis, the European institutions, it is true, activated in March 2020 the general derogation clause provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact. This clause does not suspend European mechanisms for the control of national public finances, but allows Member States to deviate temporarily from the budgetary path. On 3 March, the European Commission called for the retention of this general derogation clause in 2022 and for its deactivation in 2023. While the Commission will show flexibility with regard to those States that would not have regained their level of economic activity in December 2019, which will undoubtedly be our case, the budgetary and financial situation in our country is worrying and is likely to remain so. This situation now requires structural reforms that will allow the return to balance of Belgian public finances in the longer term. Do we feel that the government has grasped the magnitude of the fiscal situation and the efforts to produce in the medium to long term? Clearly, no. I would like to illustrate this with two examples. The first concerns structural reforms and the challenge of economic recovery, and in particular employment strategies. In the area of employment, the government set a target of 80% in 2030. But 2030 is both terribly far away and terribly close. Never again, despite our successive demands, has the government dared to set an employment target for 2024, for the end of this legislature. Yet the urgency is at work. Can I once again encourage you to set a target for 2024? A goal in this trajectory towards 2030 and towards 80% employment rates. A close objective must be set and, above all, every effort must be made to stick to it. This is the first of the structural reforms to be carried out in this government. The other example concerns some speeches that want to reassure the majority government. We are given figures by press on the minimum rate for multinationals (GAFAM tax) which is expected to raise EUR 15 billion per year. In principle, we are very much in favour of this. We have argued this for a long time, and we have tabled a text in committee for several years. But to make the assumption that this will bring us 15 billion euros is totally illusory, as all experts in this field, including Bruno Colmant, say. It is therefore anything but credible on the part of the government parties. Beyond these macro-economic issues, I would like to dwell, for a moment, on the issue of sectoral functional policies and on several of Vivaldi's political choices which challenge us in the context of this budgetary adjustment. As I have already mentioned for employment, there is still a strong medium- and long-term vision on the financing of social security. We said it and said it again. This is all the more true because of the crisis of the covid. This is a major failure. I would also like to refer to the financing of relief zones. Of course, it seems that an amount of EUR 25 million has been made available through the interdepartmental provision to be added to the budget allocated to local relief areas. However, this amount is clearly insufficient if the federal government is to meet its commitments. I recall here that the federal government committed to a 50/50 principle of funding between federal and municipal staffing. As far as Justice is concerned, you have announced and repeated that there would be a EUR 500 million refinancing of the justice system (excluding buildings) for the legislature. But there's no trace of it in your 2021 adjustment. This budgetary control is therefore not in line with the high expectations of the Court of Justice raised by the general policy note. You have actually moved a few amounts, but it is still a matter of budgetary travel. There is no substantial difference from the original budget. To announce a refinancing of the justice system as you have done, loud and clear, must of course translate, not at the last minute in 2024, but today, into concrete acts in your budget. Another point I would like to address is that of the victims of terrorist acts. In this budgetary adjustment, you have decided to reduce the budgets for pensions and various other matters concerning civilian victims of war and victims of terrorist acts. Of course, this decrease is slight, but what a signal on your part! If a budget were unused, at the very least, you could have waited for you to extend the conditions for granting pensions to allow more victims of war and terrorist acts to benefit from them. Should we not, for example, remove or re-evaluate the requirement of the 10% threshold to be exceeded in order to receive a pension? Should not health care for these victims also be evaluated, and how can it be improved rather than reduced? I can tell you, and I think that other colleagues here will also be able to testify, that having victims of these terrible attacks in Brussels regularly online or by e-mail makes it clear that many of them still face major difficulties, whether in relation to reimbursements for health care, or in relation to their personal situation which, overnight, has turned into a catastrophic situation. On the health side, let me tell you how much the choice you have made to send back the 150 million euros of savings you have made in the pharmaceutical sector to the Treasury is still asking me and still asking me. Indeed, in view of the health needs, aggravated by the pandemic we have been going through for over a year, and the number of patients affected by a long covid, who have to pay constantly growing medical and paramedical bills, and who are being barren and brutally denied the reimbursement of a sufficient number of kine sessions – a refund to which they should be entitled – in order to benefit from a revalidation that will allow them to return to work, it appears that this is not an expenditure, but an investment. I therefore find the lack of a response from the government to them particularly shocking. I said it and repeated it to the Minister of Health. Now, I even intend to abound in my sense – but without any desire to act – colleagues of the majority who previously denied this fact. It is therefore logical, indispensable and even respectful of these people to resort, at least, to a small part of these savings in the pharmaceutical sector in order to enable, not to bail out the treasury, but to provide concrete and necessary answers to these patients suffering from long-term covid disease. Of course, I am not going to address all the points that we have been able to discuss in the Finance Committee or in others. However, the budgetary adjustment of the Vivaldi leaves many uncertainties and questions about the future, without any prospect of long-term means, yet indispensable if we are to avoid burdening future generations and, more particularly, our children's shoulders again and again. The situation is alarming. There are also choices on the side of sectoral policies that we do not accept, even if they do not represent significant costs. For all these reasons, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u38	Before I give you the floor, Mrs De Wit, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it has been decided to go to the finish on this agenda item. However, the meeting will have to be interrupted at 2.15 p.m. for the tribute to Mr. Goblet and for topical issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where is the Minister of Justice? We all know I'm following Justice in the Chamber, and I wanted to ask the Minister if he had been well-supported yesterday. He wasn't here yesterday when an urgent bill had to be discussed. He was somewhere else and showed that on Twitter as well. I had said to meet early this morning and he took that very literally, I understand. At the beginning of this hearing, he was here. I saw him, by the way. He was here because he would answer my questions. He probably forgot to look on the list of speakers to see that I was the last person in line to speak here today, not in the general debate, but very specific about justice. He said: "Mrs. De Wit is not here." That's what I call little ones. All the more, I was still here. I came in when Mr Loones was still speaking. He saw me, but he left with the northern sun. I'll see what he was doing on Twitter later. He won't be able to answer my questions, but that's okay; I still have so many ways to ask them, I'm not letting go. In fact, this fits with the new political culture of this government. We saw the contempt yesterday. The tour the minister tried to patch me up this morning, asking "Where is she now?', Fits that picture. It is also in line with the discussion we have had on the budget in the Committee on Justice. I'd like to give this to you. Last Wednesday we had an exchange of views in the Committee on Justice on all the Minister's new investments. I was very happy about that. That was very cool, because he had announced things many times, but that never translated into the budget. However, that was not a bad thing, because there would be a KB in which we could read all of that and he would come and explain all of that. That was very nice. The evening before we got tables with all numbers, but there was no explanation. On Wednesday afternoon we got our explanation, but what did we see on Wednesday morning? The Minister gave a press conference, for everyone who wanted to hear it, with descriptions, presentation and tables. We didn't get that until the afternoon. I thought it was good of the Minister to come and explain, but no: first the press and then the Members of Parliament. He was also called upon to do so in committee and asked what they really wanted, because it makes sense that if one comes from the Council of Ministers with extra money, they want to report it to the press as a minister. I even understand that. I do think it makes sense, too. But, that extra money was already announced in October and was poured into a KB for the first time on April 26th. Apparently there was also a ministerial council on 21 or 22 May to determine the rest. Then as Minister of Justice, I would go to the press and show the opposition what can be done. I would not wait until a few hours before I have to present the proposals to the committee members of the same committee on 16 June. I wouldn't let it go for weeks. I really do understand that the Minister wanted to communicate about it, because it's pretty good what the Minister does. He's making extra money for the Justice Department. That's very handsome. Back to October 2nd. The government agreement already stated that 250 to 300 million would go to the Justice Department every year. Turns out it wasn't. It's true that another 137 million came out of the relay plan. So that didn't turn out to be that much. After that, it became 125 million in 2021, to build up in this way and by 2024 it would be 250 million for Justice. 125 million is still only half, but of course it remains 125 million. In November, there was the technical budget with a government agreement, a policy paper and a policy statement with 0 euro on new policies. The minister told me that I shouldn't worry, that it's a technical budget. There was time, there would be a budgetary control in March, with the rest following. I've been very patient and I've waited. That technical budget was discussed in committee in May. It contained 0 euro new policy. Nothing came into the house of all the announcements, there was even a saving. There was even less money for the Justice Department, except for that 15 million extra flat tax for his cross-border. It was already in there. We could find the liberal flat tax for traffic offences, but for the rest 0 euro new policy. There were shifts, as Mrs Fonck said earlier. Mr Geens put it very nicely in committee: 'What gives one hand takes the other hand back'. Indeed, pennies were shifted from one post to another. That was not even wrong, but it was possible to shift money from the general funds to recruit staff. We all agree on that. This was also striking in other areas. For example, the Minister's policy statement says: "The fund for victims of the attacks will receive additional financial assistance." But when we look at this technical budgetary control, we see that the victims' fund contains EUR 18 million. But what was done there? Whatever takes one hand will give the other hand. So the game is divided into two: 9 million for the victims of intentional acts of violence, and 9 million for the victims of terrorism. So no extra budget has been added, the money has just shifted. However, it said that there would be extra money everywhere. In the end, it's about a detail. I asked the Minister that he had promised budgetary control with the new funds from the commissions, but that the EUR 125 million was not included. The Minister replied to me that I shouldn't worry that two KBs are coming. That discussion took place in May, but then there was already the KB of 26 April, but we didn't get that at the time. In those two KBs, the budgets would be perfectly allocated. We could then see that for what was promised there will also be effective money. We really didn't have to worry. I was satisfied with that. We'd get what was promised. On 16 June, we were going to discuss this in committee. It was just waiting for the pieces. I asked the Friday before if we could get those documents, because I have the habit of preparing for the committee. That is also my job as a representative of the people. We didn't get it until the evening before the committee. Madam Secretary of State, you have given us the KB of 26 April with a table, but the decision of the Council of Ministers of 21 May on the additional budget has not yet been put into an KB. According to the minister, that was the FOD BoSa. So we only received tables, albeit with the basic allocation numbers, but without head, without signature. So what is the status of that document? The Minister then repeated that we could take his word for it, that the FOD BoSa still had to approve it and that the KB will be there. I'd like to believe it all, but still. Except for the basic allocation, there was no explanation. As you can see, the night before that, until 2:30 a.m., I started listing what goes with what. Even though I am a lawyer and therefore a man of words and not of figures, after a while I began to understand the assignments, among other things, for remuneration, goods and ICT. Nevertheless, I was left with some shortcomings, but I thought the minister who would get rid of them the next day in a presentation. How naive was I actually that I had not thought that the press would get that presentation first and we would only have left the media after and that the media had already left with a story, while we still had to have the exchange of views. So I came to the committee without having the presentation with all the details, which, of course, is not conducive to the debate. Moreover, everything is largely digital through COVID-19, which makes it not an obvious debate. In fact, it was not a pleasant debate either: we are fighting against unequal weapons, we are getting a presentation in which we say what the government, referring to the allocation, will do. We do not have the presentation in hand; the slide is already gone without being able to check it. In short, it is very difficult to speak, there was some magic there. By the way, I told the Minister that I could not control him in that way and was not alone with that complaint. Mr Geens also had to admit at some point that he was lost. If even a former Minister of Justice says he is off the rails and perhaps we should have a good exchange of views on it at another time, very concrete and post mail, then who am I as a humble Member of Parliament? The difference is, of course, the former minister was not attacked on that. As a humble Member of Parliament, of course, I was given the floor by the Minister, because I did not understand any of it, so to speak. They tried to make fun of me there, which I thought was unworthy of a minister. Anyway, let's take it. We saw that method again yesterday and this morning; it becomes a trend. But if the minister thinks he's gonna scare me off doing my job like that, he's wrong. He'll find me on his path a lot, because I'll keep doing my job. As I said last week, shouting loudly, what he sometimes does, shows his impotence rather than his equal. Just so he keeps going, I'm gonna keep doing my job. That is why I insisted on taking the floor here today. I'm not just doing that to be a pain in the ass. I also have a few questions to which I have not yet received an answer. Because I'm worried. There was good news, brought in a handsome presentation, which had been hard worked on, and reference was made to the basic allocation points, which I received after the committee meeting. I took the trouble to go over them and I had to conclude that the Minister sometimes confused his presentation with his budget. However, that is two different things. I checked it out, and there was definitely a difference. I even took the trouble to rehearse the committee meeting. I thought I might have missed something, because I'm talking fast and so does the Minister. I'll start with the good news, there will be effective extra money for staff. I must congratulate him on that. There will also be additional resources for ICT and other efforts will be made. I sincerely hope that money will also be well invested. However, as far as staff are concerned, I am somewhat concerned. I do not need to repeat how we have been waiting more than ten years for the measurement of workload in the judiciary, and it is still not there. The Minister found my statement that it was not enough to bring a bag of money, disrespectful. I meant, of course, that if additional resources are provided, they should be used where they are most needed. So we really need the work load measurement that is currently missing. By the way, hiring effectively is definitely not a sinecure. In response to the press conference on 16 June, the magistrates themselves said that it was not enough, that more was needed. However, you may assume from me that I sincerely hope that it will succeed. Now that the money's here, there's no excuse. I will return to the budget, Madam Secretary of State. In 2021, 125 million will be added. I shall confine myself to a few large sums. That's the easiest thing to do. The rest, after all the billions in our house, is messing around in the margins. What am I worried about? After all, it's only about a few million dollars for the Justice Department, isn't it? 125 million will be added, together with part of the ICT relay fund, but the April budget figures are lower than last year's.The sum of the figures in the tables, both those in your royal decree and those still to be validated in a KB, I assume that they are also correct; however, I will be taking note of the fact that there is no 125 million available for the new 2021 policy. I'm missing over 20 million. That's a lot, 20 million out of 125 million. For the big pit it won't matter, the trap won't be any harder, but I think it's a lot. It's not about a few percent. There's a few more of them anyway. I am a man of words, not of numbers, but I think it is about 15 % or 16 %. Anyone who can calculate it better will certainly correct me in that regard. Then I'll have a problem right away. So the presentation we received and the press conference say something different than my documents. As I said, a presentation is not a budget, but the figures are not the same. Now, you can find those mosquito lifts of De Wit. What the hell is he doing? If I say it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay. I can hear the Minister say it like that. But right is right. The Minister says something, but his figures, or your figures, actually say something else. Another point concerns even less than the 20 million. There will be extra money for the fund to help victims. It's in the presentation. I think it is important that we pay attention to this. That will also be necessary, because the perpetrators will undoubtedly not really compensate the victims in any way. So that fund becomes crucial and so does the committee that has to work for it. The Minister is right to point out to me that I would not have seen certain codes and he has listed them. It's true, there's gonna be money for coaches, for some desk furniture, the commission's gonna be reinforced. But I didn't ask about the frame, I asked about the money in the fund. How much money will be available for damages? There is additional financial assistance, but I mentioned just now that a fund of almost EUR 18 million was divided into two. Of the funds allocated to the Fund for victims of intentional violence, only half remain, since from EUR 18 million, EUR 9 million goes to the victims of terrorism. I therefore assume that if we do not get EUR 9 million there will be some more of the remaining half. After all, I do not find any extra money in your figures, although it is in the presentation. However, we will not complain about that few million euros. I am most concerned about the large sums. Madam Secretary of State, I don't know if you have that presentation. However, on slide 2 and slide 21 it is very explicit how many cents can go to second-line assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not know whether you are aware that a legislative proposal was adopted during the previous legislature, whereby more people have access to the pro-Deo system. When the scheme reaches cruising speed, it will cost about 200 million euros. That amount of 200 million euros will be re-current. I'm not against it. Don't put those words in my mouth. It is good that we support those involved. That's not my problem. However, it is a problem to give EUR 200 million of recurrent expenditure to pro-Deo cases, when there is an additional EUR 125 million and EUR 250 million in 2024. The Minister has always told me that these expenses come into the basis. The basis seems to me to be a man of words and not of figures, the budget and the basic allocation. But that expenditure is not in it, not in November 2020, not in April 2021 and still not today. We had a discussion on this in November 2020 and even Mr Geens agreed with me and noted that there was a need for structural intervention, as the money was not there. It's in the base, with those words the minister gets rid of it. Mr President, it is important. I'm almost there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u40	Mrs De Wit, let me explain why I'm asking you to try to conclude. This is so that the minister can respond before the interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u41	Mr President, it is my last magazine. I am almost at the end of my speech, but I would like to make another important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u42	It's just for that. I'm listening with a lot of interest. I'm not a doctor of law. I'm not literary. I'm not a mathist. I'm just a politician!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u43	I asked that question during the committee. For 2021, it is EUR 65 million and for 2022, for which we have already received tables, for EUR 96 million. That's a lot. Those are already bigger amounts. Still, they're not in the base. The Minister had replied in committee, but we did not get the presentation until after the answer, so I looked at that presentation afterwards. The minister said reference was made to the basic allocation. I've been watching that. The songs on the presentation, at the back, 45 and 46, I went looking in the tables, but I didn't find anything, because they're not in it. The presentation also explicitly refers only to 2022, not even 2021, although some slides were mentioned for the 65 million euros. Madam Secretary of State, will you help me? What base are we talking about here? Is there another basis, perhaps an interdepartmental commission where we can get that? Where's the 65 million euros? Where's next year's 96 million euros? That is so important to me, because it still has to be added to the base if it is not in it today. This has two possible consequences: either you will have to look for money, which may be an option, or it will have to be deducted from the EUR 125 million for this year and the EUR 175 million for next year. The latter option means that all other investments and promises purchased in Justice, if necessary, will have to be deleted. The announcements at the press conference and all promises since October have thus become empty promises. I cannot imagine that the Minister wants that, and I really do not want that, because justice has not helped any progress. Madam Secretary of State, if you can clarify where that is in the base, you will remove my concern and I am relieved. I am not asking you to amplify you or to buy time, as the chairman suspected, but it is important. Without an answer to my question, the entire Justice Policy Plan will be undermined. It's not about a million here or there, but about 65 million euros this year and 96 million euros next year, and that's going to be up to 200 million euros in 2024. I may have looked very closely, but I haven't only studied the tables, either it's not there, or there's another base, or there's gonna have to be some new extra money. To conclude, I would like to say that a presentation is not a budget. For me, only a budget counts. Mr Minister, in committee you told me that the money is there, butter is there with the fish. Well, the fish is already breaded and is already in the pan, but you can't bake it yet. If you ask me, your fish is definitely not fried yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u44	Thank you, Mrs. De Wit. I did not want to interrupt you because your speech was interesting and allowed me to understand certain situations. I share some concerns, and I believe that yesterday's incident was not intended, but it was simply a question of the government's running-off, even though it was a little unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u45	Mr President, it was not a fair debate in committee. We didn't have equal weapons. That's why I insisted on doing this again today. I very much regret that the Minister could be here at 10 this morning, while I am the last speaker on the list. I was in this House this morning, but I was not in this sitting because it was not my turn. I'm sorry he wasn't here yesterday. He made a comment this morning, but he's not here right now. I have placed all my hopes on the Secretary of State, in the hope that she will be able to return my foundation, my foundation that I am so asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u46	The Secretary of State will meet your hopes and I have the impression that you will still have many more discussions with the Minister of Justice. It's a feeling I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your comments. I have listened carefully to the debates. It was a very interesting exchange of views, but for the record, we are talking today about budgetary control 2021. I present to you the third sheet of adjustment for the 2021 expenditure budget and the first adjustment of the 2021 budget. Over the past few weeks, these texts have been discussed in the various committees. One of the conclusions of this budgetary control is clearly that it is atypical, as Mr Matheï pointed out. It is more of a technical adjustment. The limited adjustments following the budgetary conclave of 2 April had a downward impact of 56 million in 2021. That is not surprising because the focus of the past six months has been on keeping the pandemic under control. I can refer to the second update of the general expenditure budget, which was part of the fight against the coronavirus and aimed at providing more transparency on the use of resources in this area. A second adjustment included a number of additional expenditure amounting to EUR 1,186 million and an increase in the corona commission of EUR 575 million. The budget was introduced on 30 April and contained the measures that were decided on 2 April. Since then, we have decided to provide an additional €820 million for the reopening of the Horeca. We also decided to extend the aid measures until the end of September, which will cost around €950 million. In order to finance these measures, several amendments have been tabled. The fact that the budget was discussed in all the committees, which was not originally envisaged, gave time to prepare these amendments. The budget introduced provides for a dry deficit of 29.927 billion for the federal government and social security in 2021, representing a deficit of 6.31% of GDP. Since the budget was drawn up, the deficit has increased by almost €4.9 billion or 1.1% of GDP. The deterioration is due to the impact of the measures taken in the context of the Corona crisis. These measures were estimated at $7.169 billion by 2021 in the monitoring committee's report. The questions of the members of the committee regularly referred to how to respond to changing macroeconomic circumstances, such as economic growth and inflation. The growth prospects continue to fluctuate, as has been said several times here, but fortunately they continue to improve significantly over the most recent period, on the basis of the information provided by the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank of Belgium. This shows the automatic resilience of our economy. However, we will have to follow the situation systematically. Moreover, I expect the Federal Planning Office to come forward very soon with a new multiannual estimate and the Monitoring Committee will also make a new assessment in the coming weeks. The better-than-expected economic recovery will contribute to the recovery of public finances, but will not remove our structural problems, which will mean that we will also have to make budgetary efforts in the coming years. I would also like to give you the message that the Court of Auditors gave about the budget and the underlying multiannual framework. In addition to the fact that it finds that the budget submitted is atypical, it also indicated that it is realistic, a statement which I can confirm. The same applies to the way in which we will have to keep budgeting. Before going into more detail on the questions, comments and suggestions, I would like to thank the members of the committee for their good cooperation, as Mr Vanbesien has already mentioned. Mr Loones, I will not go into your analysis of my person or personality and any evolution of it. I can also tell you that my budget pregnancy went very well. Even childbirth has gone smoothly, despite the current pandemic conditions. I have no problem agreeing with you that I am a grader, and my reply will therefore be much shorter than your speech. In fact, in my job, I do work in a more technical way. Nor will I comment on the personalities of my colleagues. In general, a diverse team often delivers the best results. You didn't say anything about that, but I'm just gonna hand it over. As for your question from last week to other, additional information on the various commissions, I will of course keep my promise in committee. However, it was not possible to provide those data to you this week, given the budgetary work already in progress in the preparation of the 2022 budget. I will come to the committee again with a detailed presentation in the coming month, in which I will clarify to you the current situation of both the ordinary corona commission and the commission on new policies. At that time I will also clarify what matters have been decided by the government and can therefore be redistributed through the commission. As you know, I only enter amounts in the commission on which the government has not yet taken a final decision or whose amounts may vary in the course of the year. In reply to your question on the budgetary impact of the social agreement, which I have also replied in writing, I have to disappoint you for the time being. At the moment, we do not have all the elements to share the budgetary impact of the social agreement. Both in terms of social and fiscal aspects, the administrations, together with the social partners, are still in the process of finalising the estimate. I hope, like you, that there will be more clarity soon. On the question of the multiannual budgetary path, the stability programme submitted on 30 April 2021 did not include one of the two scenarios advanced by the High Council of Finance on 12 April 2021. Not one of them was followed. The medium-term path in the stability programme was based on the fiscal effort included in the federal government agreement. The Federal Government has decided that a fixed fiscal effort of 0.2 per cent of gross domestic product will be made each year in the period 2021-2024. In addition, an additional variable effort will be made, which will depend on economic growth and recovery. In accordance with the coalition agreement, therefore, from 2022 onwards, account will be taken of the above-mentioned variable and structural budgetary effort, which the government wishes to achieve. The final variable component will be recorded each year in the budget format on the basis of the latest figures from the Federal Planning Office's economic budget. In the initial budget 2021, that effort was estimated at 0.2 per cent of gross domestic product per year. For the federal government, the current planned effort would lead to a deficit of 2.7 % of gross domestic product in 2024. In the scenario of the Supreme Court of Finance, supported by most members, a deficit of 2.6 % was raised for entity I in 2024. This is a difference of 0.1 % of gross domestic product within three years. In view of the great uncertainty, the philosophy of the Supreme Court of Finance has been held back and we also subscribe within the European framework. I don't want to get ahead of myself. If the European Commission restarts its reflection exercise, this government can take a position on it. It is important that fiscal sustainability should not be imposed on us by Europe, but on us. The federal government has set out the lines in the formulation of its coalition agreement on how it will achieve it. The latest forecasts of the National Bank are based on a general government deficit of 4.5 % of gross domestic product for joint government, but these forecasts do not take into account structural efforts foreseen by this government, as opposed to the presented stability programme. It clearly confirms the importance of this planned budgetary effort. Mr Leysen, I would like to go further on Voka's study and say that in the meantime we have incorporated a part of our budget and budget documents, namely the multiannual budget. Maybe a little under-exposed so far, but very important. Both in the budget and in budgetary control 2021, we have updated the multiannual budgetary framework. You will see that this multi-annual estimate will also be updated over the legislative period, i.e. beyond 2024, up to 2026. With regard to the changed economic circumstances, to which Mr Vermeersch referred, I have already explained, and the metaphor was used by many today, that the budget is a photograph at some point. Unlike a normal photograph, taking this picture is a long process, which started in February this year with the economic budget of the Planning Bureau. It is not possible to quickly, quickly integrate new macroeconomic prospects, or payback effects of the RRF. Even if, as in this case, it would lead to more favourable results, it is not possible to do so at the moment. Indeed, inflation prospects have increased compared to the expectations in February. It was assumed that the spill-over index was exceeded in December. It is now foreseen that the spill-over index will be exceeded in October 2021 and that social benefits will be adjusted as early as November and the wager of public staff in December. The Court of Auditors states, on the basis of the information provided to it by the FPS BoSa, that the budgetary impact on expenditure could be 267 million euros. As she has also pointed out, there is also a positive impact on revenue, which is, however, more difficult to estimate. Inflation is also higher, as economic growth is expected to be higher. The final impact on the ESA balance is therefore very difficult to estimate and is only possible if the entire economic framework is fully updated. The impact of exceeding the central index by one month difference on federal wages is relatively limited. The FOD BoSa indicates that it would amount to about 12 million euros. It can in many cases be absorbed within existing appropriations. It is not because we do not change the budget for this that we do not follow the forecasts of the Planning Bureau on a monthly basis. This is different from the government's ambitions in the fight against fraud and employment policy. These ambitions must then also be reflected in the budget. From my position as Secretary of State for the Budget, I assume that every minister will take the necessary steps to ensure that the measures provided for in the government agreement, and in this case the sums of EUR 20 million, are actually achieved. The Ministerial Committee on Combating Fiscal and Social Fraud adopted the Action Plan on 6 June. There is no reason to believe today that this government ambition will not be or can be fulfilled. I would also like to respond to a number of specific questions, including the impression that defence is being saved. That is not correct, and that has been clearly answered in committee. Some investment expenditure in the Defense Department reduces because there are files that have been delayed, not because the investments have been removed. The only saving concerns linear savings across all departments and only 0.89% was saved on the Defence budget, compared with 2% for the other departments. With regard to the Agency for Foreign Trade, the Federal State provides for an annual allocation for the Agency. The powers and funding by a key to the distribution of this Agency are defined in the Cooperation Agreement of 24 May 2002. In this sense, I see no exceedance of the powers recognized to each entity. Mr Van Hees, on 12 January, the government decided to set up a pilot project spending review on the exemption from payment of the professional discount and also approved the mandate of the working group that will carry out this spending review. The Court of Auditors' report is the starting point for the working group. Spending review is a logical follow-up to the Court of Auditors' report. The working group may formulate options to respond to the remarks made by the Court. As agreed, we will implement the trajectory for the pension increase to 1,500 euros per month that has been set within the government. As far as your question about provisions is concerned, I am referring to my previous answer. In addition, I would like to point out that the amounts of the reserve can only be released after my approval. This gives me additional control to ensure that the funds are being used properly. Of the pharmaceutical savings, €150 million is expected to be saved in 2021 and €180 million in 2022. The savings of 11 million euros you are talking about are part of this exercise. I know the kiwi model, but we need to consider several aspects of it. I think, for example, of the risk of stock failure. The Minister of Public Health is the person responsible for the drug policy. In any case, the adoption of the kiwi model is not provided for in the government agreement at this time. With regard to the investment path of entities 1 and 2, the government agreement states: "It is the responsibility of each level of authority to make every effort, in the contours of its competences, to increase this rate. However, we target a public investment rate of 4% for 2030. The federal government will play its part, given its current involvement in public investment." The proposed budget for the European Guarantee Fund is a solution that will be used only in the event of extreme urgency. If the appropriations cannot be drawn on time from the interdepartmental provision, the staff credits may be temporarily transferred. This amount will again be added as soon as possible after the allocation of the resources for the provision. Their underutilisation is due to a number of factors: budgetary prudence, the very long recruitment procedure with the result that staff enter the service late, staff sometimes difficult to find in the labour market, etc. Mrs Fonck, you mentioned the budget for victims of war and terrorist acts. They are therefore people who, unfortunately, have been victims of previous conflicts. The decrease in this budget is the result of volume effects only. Because of the age pyramid of war victims, this budget has been declining in recent years. The savings of EUR 150 million have been included in this government's fiscal effort. Nor should we forget that this government is investing heavily in health care. For example, the growth standard has been raised to 2.5%. A budget has also been made available at the level of INAMI for the rehabilitation of covid-19 patients. Mrs De Wit, I can confirm that the EUR 125 million envisaged for Justice this year will be arranged through the interdepartmental commission. For this purpose, the Royal Decree of 25 April 2021 was issued. It was then a redistribution of EUR 79.4 million. A second Royal Decree, following the Council of Ministers on 21 May, is still in progress and is indeed in preparation. There is then a limited amount that will be distributed later in the year per KB. I can confirm that the second-line assistance is at the basis of the budget and the multiannual estimate, and should therefore not be financed from the commission. The estimates used for the coming years were made by the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I am going to use a few figures, but that was Mrs De Wit's question. You can find this, Mrs De Wit, on the 56 prog1, 8.1sec344145: legal assistance fee for lawyers for an amount of 93 million euros for 2021. In another place you will find: legal assistance agency for 7.5 million euros. On another line: legal assistance fee for lawyers for 9.8 million euros. And another line: legal assistance agencies for 0.8 million euros. I'll get you those figures in writing. To conclude, we are talking about budgetary control. In the meantime, the work has started on budget layout 2022. However, budgetary policy is more than the drawing-up of a budget and control at certain times throughout the year. I will monitor developments closely on a daily basis, both on the macroeconomic level and on the accounts themselves. It's my practice to get government funding back under control after the corona crisis. I will see to it that corona expenditure is temporary and targeted and stopped as soon as possible. The structural problems need to be addressed and spending reviews within the different policy areas need to make spending more efficient, in order to reduce the government deficit and reduce the debt rate in order to give Mrs Fonck, children and grandchildren a bright future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u48	I propose to close the proceedings. The services take about 10 minutes to prepare the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip113x.u50	If we start, we won't end it! When you say two minutes, Mr Loones, I know what that means! If you start, I can't stop at you. The others will want to intervene. It is a matter of equal treatment for all members of this assembly. In these circumstances, I propose to close the debate and to make the replies after the questions. That's what was agreed upon before. I'm sorry, you had to talk a little less. The services need ten minutes to prepare topical questions. The tribute to Mr. Goblet must be paid. You will resume the discussion with the replies after the oral questions. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 24, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 June at 2.15 p.m.
