ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u1	Madam President, Minister, my first question concerns the declaration of company tax and non-profit organisations. Article 2:70 of the Code of Companies and Associations provides that the dissolution of a company also results in the closure of the financial year. The result is that a period is defined between the closure of the financial year and the dissolution of the company, and then a second period if the liquidation takes place later. According to a May 2020 circular, companies are expected to make a corporate tax return each time. The question now is whether this circular also applies to non-profit organisations, to which the same system applies, but for which it is not clear whether several declarations are to be made, either in corporation tax or in legal persons tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u2	Mr Matheï, the rules as clarified in the letter do not apply to non-profit organisations subject to the tax on legal persons. The taxable period in the legal person's tax shall always correspond to the calendar year, irrespective of which accounting period is used. Consequently, the closure of the financial year by the mere dissolution of the non-profit association which is subject to the tax on legal persons does not affect the taxable period and therefore does not affect the obligation to declare it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u3	That is quite clear, Minister. In this way, it is also an important directive for the non-profit organisations in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u4	Mr Minister, in 2018 a pilot project of horizontal supervision was launched with a number of companies, which instead of using the so-called conflict model, is to consult the administration and the companies involved, call it a kind of cooperation model. Your predecessor gave a brief state of affairs at the beginning of 2020 and also referred to a study round on the introduction of this horizontal supervision, not focused on very large companies, but on SMEs. The possibility of establishing such a model of cooperation with SMEs was examined. Was the pilot project on horizontal monitoring completed and evaluated? What was the result of that? Are effective initiatives now being taken to introduce the horizontal surveillance cooperation model also for SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u5	Mr Matheï, the pilot project Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme (CTCP) is still in progress. Six groups of companies are in the intake phase. Exploratory and preparatory discussions have taken place recently or will take place shortly in order to reach the envisaged ten participating groups. The progress of the project has been somewhat delayed by the corona crisis. All participating groups are still in the intake phase. In 2020, strong investment was made in the training of staff, especially through a European Commission support project. Training was organised to better understand the new working methods, such as the Tax Control Framework or the process and system-based assessment. The first phase of the evaluation is limited to monitoring the design of the programme and its working methods. A FAQ with clarifications was already published at the end of 2019. An evaluation of efficiency and effectiveness is under development. Experts from foreign administrations are involved through the European support project. At the moment, the working method is new to our employees. There is still a learning process to be completed. There are therefore no measurable results yet. The SME administration, in line with my policy statement, will work further towards closer cooperation with the business community, in order to build mutual trust. It is regularly coordinated digitally with various professions closely involved in taxation, such as tax advisors, accountants, curators, social secretariats and software companies, as well as interest groups such as UNIZO and VBO. Building trust takes time. The corona pandemic is a serious brake. We also want to take concrete steps to reduce compliance costs by using technology. After the successful geolocation app, another tool is also in the test phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Rome wasn't built one day either. It is clear that steps are being taken to implement the interesting project. It is also good to hear that expertise is brought in, also from abroad, where such systems are already running well in some places. It is also good to hear that the lines for consultation with professional associations, such as the ITAA, are open so that the right links can be established on the ground as well. Finally, I would like to say that it is important not to forget the smaller companies. It might also be an idea to focus more on larger non-profit institutions that have taken the form of a non-profit association.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u7	Madam President, Minister, in the autumn you launched the public consultation on the transposition of the European e-commerce directive. For the first time, the field and interested parties were questioned about a fiscal topic. This is important and interesting because it increases transparency and provides an equal opportunity for everyone to have access to the same information and because taking note of the views of experience experts in the field can only bring about better legislation. You yourself indicated in the autumn that you think it is a system which is certainly worth repeating. I therefore have the following questions. Are you considering using this system of public consultation in the formatting of royal decisions? Do you consider using it when formatting certain new tools? Given the great ambitions of digitalisation, are they coming? In this way the tools could also work better, because there is some criticism in the field about the tool for the declaration of withholding tax. The question is whether this was used there and whether this could possibly be a solution to make tools work even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u8	Madam President, Mr Matheï, thank you for this question on an element which I myself consider important. However, with regard to the royal decrees, I think it is less obvious to organise a public consultation in the context of their preparation. In tax matters, the constitutional legality principle applies and only the legislator has policy freedom. Although the legislator may delegate the elaboration of the non-essential elements of a tax to the King, the latter has essentially a binding competence. Therefore, the drafting of a Royal Decree will only take limited account of suggestions and comments that may have been obtained through a public consultation. Something else is the user experience and the fact that we look at digital services to see what is possible and where adjustments can be made. The FPS Finance has decided to do this systematically and step by step as staff and budgetary resources are available. User experience indeed means that we involve the user in the development or adaptation of services that will be offered to him. The FPS Finance already evaluates the user experience in many projects, such as the information structure on the website, the application MyRent, certain functionalities of MyMinfin and in general the use of words in digital services because this may be important. The user experience review will also take place in the coming weeks in the construction of a navigation structure in the vicinity of the professionals in MyMinfin and in the development of the MyFin account within MyMinfin. In addition to these qualitative reviews with the users, my administration also has the ambition to consult users more systematically on different topics. These consultations will, of course, be more quantitative. The piste that is currently being looked at is the creation of a panel of testers with voluntary users, which the FPS Finance can appeal to if necessary. At present no timing can be attached to it or which software will be used to do so. A feasibility study and benchmarking should be carried out to find out how this can be achieved. In the development of the new declaration module for the movable withholding tax via MyMinfin, two test phases were carried out with external partners. This was intended to take the utmost account of user comments from the outset. Any further technical developments necessary to further respond to those comments will be taken into account at a later stage. For example, it will soon be possible to report to different taxpayers via an xml file. Of course, my administration is open to a further input from the users to put everything not only technically fully on track, but also to optimize user-friendliness and experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u9	Minister, if we want to work on sound and sound fiscal legislation, it can indeed be an added value to involve people. So I'm on that road, too. I can also understand that very technical provisions in RBs are less suitable for this. If we really want to work on digitisation at Finance and on user-friendly tools, then it is also important that the user experience is viewed in different ways, both qualitatively, as you quote, as well as by a panel. These are good initiatives to ensure that MyMinfin and other financial applications can be further digitised in an especially user-friendly way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u10	Minister, the Anti-Money Laundering Act stipulates that the subject entities are obliged to make certain notifications, which end up with the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI). There were a lot of reports to the CFI, as the figures from the annual report show. In 2019, the CFI received more than 33,000 notifications. The CFI then examines whether this should be passed on to the parquet. It is particularly important that the reports sent to the CFI are qualitative, so that they can be used efficiently. Mr Minister, can you clarify how the quality of the reports is monitored by the subject entities? Can you clarify what actions are being taken to improve quality so that the CFI and the rest of the process can work even more efficiently?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u11	The quality of the notifications is the continuous priority of the CFI. To this end, the necessary staff will be deployed. For example, at the end of 2017, a staff member of the CFI was appointed and from 2019 an additional half-time staff member was appointed to focus on the exchange of information between the supervisory authorities and the CFI, and to continuously monitor and evaluate the quality of reports of suspicions received. The CFI also works with a strengthened internal communication channel to identify and centralise and monitor any deficiencies or weaknesses in the notifications received. Where significant deficiencies or weaknesses are identified with regard to the quality of the suspected reports, received from a subject entity, or the non-compliance with legal obligations, the CFI shall inform the supervisory authority of the subject entity, which may take administrative sanctions, including financial penalties. This enhanced cooperation, resulting from the new anti-money laundering law of 2017 between the CFI and the supervisory authorities, was implemented in specific consultation meetings on cooperation. The quality of the reports is discussed after an assessment of their relevance, proactivity, completeness and motivation. One of the parameters for assessing the relevance of the notifications is the level of notification to the public prosecutor, which is the subject of feedback, even though this is an indicator that needs to be approached with great caution. The supervisory authorities pay particular attention to the obliged sectors which show little or no activity at all. In this case, the way in which the sectors concerned can deal more consciously with their obligations in the fight against money laundering or the fight against terrorism is discussed. As far as cooperation with banks is concerned, the CFI's strategic section has been organising regular meetings with representatives of large banks for two years to explain in detail certain typologies and trends. COOVID-19 has been kicking ass this year, but the intention is not only to continue these meetings, but also to hold a meeting once a year with all the banks to explain a certain trend there. Given the provisions of the Anti-Money Laundering Act, two-way traffic is sought. Banks can also indicate in which domains they would like to receive additional information. An overarching platform can offer advantages in terms of uniformity, speed and security. The CFI is currently considering the adaptation and improvement of its website with a non-public part, intended only for subject entities, in order to facilitate the sharing of information, but a platform can provide a simpler response. The CFI is also in favour of further structuring the current cooperation with Febelfin, for example on joint history and correspondent banking reports, within that platform. A framework for this platform will be established in the European Commission's Action Plan for a comprehensive EU policy on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, focusing on public-private partnerships. The European Commission will publish guidelines on this during the first semester of 2021. Meanwhile, I started the preliminary consultation with all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u12	Minister, if we want to establish a performance system for anti-money laundering, there are indeed several actors that are important. The subject entities have obligations, e.g. regarding their reporting to the CFI, and then the public prosecutor has its role to play. The supervisory authority as intermediary is important to intervene, if necessary, in certain sectors, in order to ensure that the flow of information goes well. With regard to the banks, it is important, as the hearings on the FinCEN Files have clearly shown, that there is also a good exchange. The hearings highlighted some initiatives of interesting cooperation platforms from abroad. It is good to hear that a two-way platform is being developed here too, so that banks can exchange information and optimise the whole process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u13	Minister, the preventive anti-money laundering law obliges all companies, non-profit organisations and legal entities to register their beneficiaries in the UBO register. They must prove their identity on the basis of a number of evidence. During the hearings on the FinCen Files, we learned from the banks that it is not really obvious to verify the final beneficiaries through an independent source. In practice, this is mainly done via a commercial channel, Graydon Belgium NV. It was asked whether the government together with the banks could not set up a system to unlock the lists of authentic sources. This information could then be directly available. Do you think it is appropriate, Minister, to set up cooperation to this end? During the previous legislature, it was announced that a kind of shared database would be established together with Febelfin. Notifications and information could be shared in real time. What's the status there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u14	If the subject entities do not have an independent and reliable source of information on the final beneficiaries of their customers, they should turn to other sources, including the customer himself, to collect the appropriate evidence. To assist the subject entities in this work, the UBO Registry provides centralized information on the beneficial owners of all Belgian companies. Subject entities may obtain an extract from the UBO register, but may not rely solely on the consultation of this register to fulfil their identification and verification obligations regarding the said beneficial owners. Subject entities are and will remain obliged to identify and verify the identification data of the final beneficiaries of their clients and of the transactions in which they intervene. I am aware of the administrative workload that this identification of final beneficiaries may entail. Therefore, there are projects to improve the interaction and exchange of information between the subject entities and the authorities. Already, the UBO register is already linked to the electronic stock register. My administration is currently developing the same kind of technical solution, which will facilitate the consultation of the register by the subject entities. There is also a pilot project and there will be consultation with the sector, including Febelfin, to access the technical solution after it has been validated by my administration. Current planning suggests that this consultation will start in the summer of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u15	Thank you for that answer. The important provisions of the Preventive Anti-Money Laundering Act are necessary, but, of course, they entail a great deal of additional administrative burdens. Here too, the digitisation and linking of certain issues is very important. In the long term, this can lead to a profit. In that respect, I am pleased to hear that behind the scenes work is being done to make these matters easier to unlock, first through a pilot project. It would be interesting to be able to roll these things out in order to make that necessary obligation on money laundering more user-friendly and convenient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u16	Madam President, Minister, Corona is inextricably linked to working at home, as a trend but also as an obligation. In the past, the employer was able to repay a number of costs to the employee, of which evidence had to be available, or possibly a prior decision or a ruling. Last year's letter made this easier. It is now clearly stated that an amount of EUR 126,94, subject to certain conditions, can be granted tax-free. In addition, there are other systems, such as the fee for using a PC or the fee for using the Internet, both 20 euros. The question is whether the combination can still be made or whether there should be a prior decision or ruling for that combination, which, of course, makes the data a bit more complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u17	Mr Matheï, that is a legitimate concern. Indeed, the COVID-19 pandemic is doing more work at home. We suspect that this is an evolution that will be sustained in the coming months and years. That is why I asked my administration to examine the tax system concerning the employer's intervention in the cost of homework in a wider context. This is now being worked on, and the result of this research will soon be published in a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u18	It's good to hear that. That will give us some clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Depoostere's 55010873C has been withdrawn because of the absence of the questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u20	Madam President, I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council: In fact, Mr Van Hees' 55012385C deals with the same subject, but the questions were not merged. We know, Minister, that the fight against fraud will be one of the priorities of your policy. You replied to a previous question that 575 effective FTEs work at the Special Tax Inspectorate. How many will that be in the coming years under unchanged policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u21	Madam President, the replacement for one audit function will continue to apply. Since the general administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate consists mainly of control functions, this means that the number of VTEs will remain relatively constant. However, evolutions such as digitalisation should be taken into account, allowing for a shift of vte's. This will also be reflected in the staff plans drawn up annually. That is why it is very difficult to make a preliminaries for the years you have requested. The fact that the replacement applies one to one for control functions is, of course, an important starting point. Furthermore, of course, we continue to invest in this fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u22	Mr Minister, when exactly are these personnel plans expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u23	They're in the making now. I suspect this will be in one or two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u24	Madam Chair, I wish you and the minister all the best to assist in the work of this committee, and to each member of this committee. Given the workload, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Cornet, I also wish you my best wishes for 2021. The case to which you refer concerns a judicial case in which the bank in question is itself the victim. On the basis of information received, this would be a judicial matter falling within the scope of the law enforcement component of the Money Laundering Act, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. To date, my services have not received any information from the Public Prosecutor's Office on this fraud mechanism through the granting of mortgage loans and the indictment of Belfius Bank, in accordance with article 29bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. As regards the qualification of declarations under the preventive part of the Money Laundering Act, I refer to the annual report of the Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF). The statistics do not provide us with the details requested. However, I can inform you that in 2019, 83 declarations were introduced by mortgage credit institutions, compared to 26 in 2018 and 19 in 2017. In addition, credit institutions are confronted with a phenomenon of fraud in which false pay slips are used to justify the purchase of real estate and the repayment of credit. In this context, Febelfin is exploring with the National Office of Social Security (ONSS) the legal and operational feasibility of consulting the salary data received by ONSS from employers, in order to allow lenders to detect fraud through falsified pay slips. It goes without saying that this consultation should take place on a pragmatic legal basis, specifically the Privacy Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, the case is under way. So it was not my intention to ask you to comment on this. I just wanted your opinion on mortgage credit fraud. Indeed, Febelfin pointed out that this was a well-known fraud. The problem highlighted is that the bank continues to have commercial relations with an actor it has reported in order to carry out potentially criminal activities. This is something we will come back to as we have already mentioned at the FinCEN Files hearings. I welcome the research carried out at the initiative of Febelfin to develop solutions for better control of money laundering in the context of mortgages, while stressing, as you have done, the importance of ensuring respect for privacy and striking a balance between this respect and anti-money laundering research. According to Febelfin, it is possible to improve control over mortgage credit fraud. In my view, we must continue to look at all the leads. As you have suggested, of course I intend to consult the annual reports for audit purposes. In any event, I encourage you to remain attentive to this type of fraud, which is apparently well-known in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u27	Minister, as you know, my group and I are very interested in the international debate, and more particularly the European one. At the beginning of December 2020, a number of European meetings took place, but then it broke down, which means that my questions can only be dealt with late. I would therefore like to adapt them somewhat, albeit not fundamentally. First of all, I wonder if the Minister is prepared to think about a system where we can play a shorter game and get debriefings of European meetings faster. In this Parliament there is an advisory committee on European affairs. My party has made sure that since the last government, the Prime Minister in Parliament has come to debrief all the European summits of Heads of State or Government. It would be interesting to set up a similar system for European financial and budgetary meetings. This is all the more important because quite a few important European meetings are scheduled to take place soon. The European agenda is extremely ambitious; up to and including the discussion of own European resources. Is the Minister open to a system of debriefings that play shorter on the ball, for example with topical debates? An item on the agenda at the European meeting dealt with the banking union. Yesterday we received a very special presentation from the National Bank here in the Finance Committee. Implicitly and explicitly, the speaker was quite critical of the policy of the European Central Bank (ECB) on bank mergers. I would like to call on the Minister to take a careful look at that passage. It is relevant to our banking sector. There is no doubt that majority and opposition can agree on this point. Secondly, have any agreements been made on debt settlement? Thirdly, as far as the European Semester is concerned, we have discussed, among other things, the Brexit, the Recovery Fund and the Brexit Fund that are in the scaffolding and the vaccination campaign that comes at cruising speed. It seems that now that the main crisis measures are in place, the European Union will once again be able to concentrate more on itself. The discussions, in particular on the European Semester, are likely to burst again soon. Is the Minister prepared to defend the foundations of the Maastricht Treaty in this respect and to debate it with this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u28	Madam President, I naturally endorse Mr Loones' suggestion. I have already made the same proposal here, because now we are dependent on the format of the oral questions, which may not be ideal. Minister, on 30 November 2020 there was a new digital meeting of the euro group. The agreement in principle on the reform of the ESM has been launched. It can be used as a safety net for problem banks in the euro area from the beginning of 2022. Could you explain a little more about the agreed reform of the ESM? Has there been any further progress in the field of EDIS' European Deposit Insurance Scheme? These discussions have been going on for a number of years, often at a technical level, but there are still few results. We know that there is a lot of disagreement about risk reduction and risk sharing. The deepening of the capital market union is also a work in progress. I come to my questions about the Ecofin Council. The most striking feature was the agreement on the exchange of income generated by companies from online sales. With this measure, which would enter into force in 2023, the EU would like to combat tax evasion and avoidance by webshops and other companies using digital platforms. Could you give us a little more explanation about that? As regards the European Semester, Minister, I understand that the Eurogroup and/or the Ecofin Council on 18 and 19 January were postponed. Is that right? We know that there is an agreement on a recovery plan. We'll talk about the Resilience Facility, of course. There is also a link with the country-specific recommendations that have been and are being drawn up under the European Semester. Will we include structural reforms alongside public investment projects? That is perhaps more a question for Mr Dermine, but you have also been informed from Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u29	I thank everyone for the answers and, of course, I understand that these Eurogroupes and the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) are important to this committee. I also think it is important that we have a debate on this. However, I suggest that we try to do so as best we can within the framework of these oral questions. I think that the dates of the euro groups are known in advance. Perhaps we should make a habit of putting oral questions on the agenda the following week, so that we can give a brief explanation and debate them on the basis of general questions. However, I have here four pages of information from the last two meetings, which I would like to share with you. With regard to the Eurogroup of 30 November 2020, I can tell you that there has indeed been a breakthrough in the reform of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), a result that I very much welcome. The main changes to this reform are as follows: Firstly, the introduction of a common backstop for the Single Resolution Fund from the beginning of 2022, in the form of a credit facility from the ESM to this Fund. This backstop could support the bank-filled resolution fund if insufficient resources remain for a possible settlement case. Secondly, changes to the precautionary instruments, and in particular the Precautionary Conditioned Credit Line, so that Member States can fall back on support from the ESM more quickly in the future. Thirdly, a greater role for the ESM in the negotiations on macro-economic adjustments of Member States. The Ecofin Council of 1 December 2020 had an extensive agenda, with an exchange of views on the Council conclusions on the European Commission Action Plan on the Capital Markets Union. Like the other Member States, Belgium supports this new action plan to strengthen the Capital Markets Union. The Euro Summit of 11 December 2020 also confirmed this support. The Action Plan aims to support a green, digital and inclusive economic recovery by making funding accessible to European companies, by making the EU even safer as a place where people can save and invest in the longer term and by integrating national capital markets into a genuine single market. With regard to the debate on international tax issues, we continue to focus on international and European cooperation on the adaptation and modernisation of tax rules. The OECD is currently in the move and remains the most appropriate forum for an international agreement. As an OECD member, Belgium is currently working constructively on a compromise, but should the OECD fail to reach an agreement by mid 2021, Belgium will contribute to a solution in the European context based on the Commission's plans. For the time being, of course, I am giving the international consultation every opportunity to succeed and we are holding back the European proposals. Finally, if nothing is done at international and European level, Belgium will take a unilateral initiative by 2023 at the latest, as France and other Member States have done. As regards the Banking Union, Belgium remains in favour of a fully-finished banking union with a fully-fledged European DGS as a third pillar. At the ECOFIN Council on 1 December, the German Presidency presented a progress report on the Banking Union covering the four following areas: the review of the crisis management framework, the creation of a European DGS, the further integration of the European banking market and the treatment of public risks in prudential requirements of banks. The report on the Banking Union was welcomed by the Member States. Negotiations will continue in the course of 2021, including on the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme. It is important that an overall approach is maintained with progress in risk sharing and risk reduction and with the ultimate goal of a full banking union. The resolution of debt problems, in particular of low-wage countries, requires a coordinated international approach. The Belgian Government fully supports the European and international approach, initially providing liquidity support through the Debt Service Suspension Initiative, which came under the impetus of the G20 and the Paris Club. Belgium is fully involved in the implementation of the initiative, which was recently extended for six months with the possibility of a further extension in spring 2021. It is also hopeful that the G20 has adopted a framework to address debt in a more structural way with a more targeted approach per country and that China, as an important bilateral creditor, also supports this framework. With regard to the European Semester, there was no discussion at the ECOFIN Council on 1 December on adjustments to the current budgetary rules. That discussion will take place later this year. However, the general escape clause will remain activated throughout 2021. In this context, I confirm that Belgium is defending the foundations of the Maastricht Treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact. European budgetary rules are an important pillar of European Economic and Monetary Union. We therefore also support the timely withdrawal of the general escape clause from the moment when the economic situation allows it. Of course, Belgium will also actively consider the form of these European budgetary rules and possible adjustments. I am thinking, for example, of the possible treatment of productive investments, as Mr Ravyts has already mentioned. Finally, there is the specific issue of administrative cooperation on taxation. In recent years, the European Union has taken significant steps through several DAC directives or the Directive on Administrative Co-operation in the field of Taxation, to address tax avoidance and evasion and to increase tax transparency. An evaluation of the functioning of the existing DAC Directives has shown that the Directives do not adequately address the challenges facing governments through the increasing digitisation of the economy and the development of new business models, in particular in terms of correct and fair taxation. In addition, the specific cross-border nature of the digital platforms, which, of course, makes it even more difficult for the tax authorities. For this reason, it is stated that the digital platforms report information to the tax authorities, which in turn will exchange information with their European colleagues. In addition, there has been a need to improve the existing provisions for exchange of information and administrative cooperation, such as the usability of the information obtained, the protection of data, joint text audits and the addition of new categories of revenue, such as royalties. DAC7 provides an answer to both elements. Belgium has worked very constructively to ensure that a level playing field is maintained at European Union level in the field of transparency and the fight against tax avoidance and evasion. For example, it is important for Belgium to have an efficient exchange of useful information between Member States, with, where possible, alignment with the global OECD standard. This is achieved by a switch-off clause, so that the information is only reported and exchanged once. With the same objectives of efficiency and usability, the agreement provides for a broad scope of application, including sales of good activities. Furthermore, Belgium supports the provisions for improved cross-border cooperation, such as joint text audits for adequate safeguards for the protection of the data exchanged, the data breach procedures and the use of the information obtained. In line with my policy statement on the use of the DAC data, Belgium has asked the European Commission to evaluate the usability of information from DAC against the next update of the Directive, which is already expected by the end of 2021. In this way, I think I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, as always fascinating, and for the willingness you have shown. Nor do I think we should create a new sitting; we can use the oral question module for this. It would be good if the agendas of the ministers and the secretariat of the committee were coordinated. For example, we have a chance to put oral questions on this matter a week after a European meeting. Let us do so in the same way as in the European Advisory Committee. That is where the Prime Minister starts with a statement and then questions can be asked. This avoids everyone asking the same questions and allows us to spend the time as usefully as possible. It's not supposed to sell show, it's supposed to work on files. Your answers contain a number of things that we already knew or have already debated, such as the Banking Union. You know I'd rather have kept the backstop a little more under control. I refer once again to the hearing we had yesterday with the representative of the National Bank, and in particular Mr Swyngedouw's reply after the first round of questions, all the way at the end, in which he spoke quite critically about some bank mergers. You spoke of a progress report that Germany prepared on the banking union. Can that report be shared with this committee? You spoke clearly about the escape clause. Thank you for that. As far as the debt of developing countries is concerned, I am personally in favour of a major liquidation exercise. Let's sit around the table together and finally take a quiet look at how big the debt pot actually is. Now we are really chasing a number of Third World countries at a huge cost because of the towering interest charges. A liquidation would offer them relief. However, that is an international debate that even exceeds the European Union. There's still work to be done here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u31	Thank you for your understanding of our concerns, Minister. From your body language, I'm saying it's gonna happen next week, isn't it? I saw something like that on the Internet, but I could be wrong. Maybe we can organize something in the next round with oral questions. Can we also receive your exhaustive answer on paper? Can your cabinet forward that? With larger answers it is useful to have a paper view. I would also like to thank you for your rather complete explanation of the ESM, the Banking Union, the European Semester and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u32	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u33	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u34	Mr Piedboeuf, Royal Order No. 4 of 9 April 2020 on various provisions relating to co-ownership and the rights of companies and associations in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic contains provisions concerning the postponement of the general meeting and the extension by 10 weeks of periods from which tariff increases are applied in the event of late filing. These provisions establish an optional scheme. Entities that choose not to use these options fully comply with the regime that would otherwise be applicable to them. Since the National Bank of Belgium is unable to verify whether a general meeting has been postponed in accordance with Article 7 of Royal Decree No. 4, it cannot legally verify whether the deposit of an annual account is late or not, in accordance with that Royal Decree or in accordance with the Code of Companies and Associations. Due to the problem of burden of proof, the Ministerial Order of 16 July 2020 extends by two months, including 31 October 2020, the period from the beginning of application of the tariff increases, and grants until that date a general exemption for the application of these tariff increases for legal persons whose annual accounts have been closed between 1 September 2019 and 31 December 2019, and who have deposited their annual or consolidated accounts before the eleventh month following the end of the financial year. In accordance with the Ministerial Order of 16 July 2020, and in agreement with the SPF Economy and the Accounting Standards Commission, the National Bank suspended the existing rate increases for the relevant annual accounts until 31 October 2020 inclusive. For the period 1 November to 9 November 2020 inclusive, the National Bank of Belgium recorded 9,727 deposits of annual accounts to which tariff increases were automatically applied. Companies which have deposited their annual accounts during this period and which consider that they are not liable for the tariff surcharge may appeal against the surcharge to the SPF Economie, in accordance with the procedure described on the website of the National Bank, on the home page of the Centrale des balance sheets. In the event of a positive decision, the FPS Finance will of course reimburse the rate increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u35	Minister, thank you for that clear answer. The aim was to avoid such formalities. But now, companies know what they have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u36	I wish you and the Minister of Finance the best of luck. On 20 October, I asked you about Belgium's notification of the release in favour of the GSDT asbl of Libyan funds frozen by Belgium and held on behalf of the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) by Euroclear. This notification is your responsibility. You replied, without arguing, that your administration considered that there were legal objections to the notification to the Sanctions Committee in New York. In particular, your administration ignored paragraph 21 of resolution 1970 of 26 February 2011, which explicitly provides that States members of the United Nations may authorize the release of assets to allow the payment of contractual obligations arising prior to the inclusion of the entities concerned in the sanctions list. Since then, I have taken note of the opinion of 15 December last, requested on this issue by Mr. Alex Tallon, liquidator of the GSDT asbl at Prof.Pierre-Olivier de Broux, professor of administrative law at Saint-Louis University. This opinion, which is based in particular on no less than five Belgian judicial decisions between 2011 and 2020, both in the first instance and in appeal, is without ambiguity. Intervention at the UN Sanctions Committee is justified on three grounds: the application of the principle of non-discrimination in respect of this asbl, the commitment of the Belgian State's responsibility and the prevention of any political controversy that may affect the constitutional monarchy. Professor de Broux believes that the GSDT asbl, presided over by Prince Laurent, "could legitimately turn against the Belgian State to recover its claim if you do not notify the Sanctions Committee" and concludes that "the refusal to intervene could create a serious political controversy detrimental to the monarchy institution" and that "the refusal of intervention by the Belgian State is not sufficiently justifiable". So, Minister, will you finally stop opposing the notification to the UN Sanctions Committee prepared by Minister Goffin in favour of the GSDT asbl? Indeed, it expected a full-fledged government in favour of the GSDT asbl.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u37	In the context of the GSDT file, I should like to inform you that since the commission of 20 October, I have received two letters from the liquidator. In view of these, I informed my Foreign Affairs colleague in writing at the beginning of December that I saw no objection to a notification procedure in New York.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u38	Mr. Minister of Finance, this is excellent news that I take note of. I also note that you do not object to this notification. I shall therefore turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to act diligently and to inform the Sanctions Committee in order to put an end to this situation, which seems to me to be highly discriminatory and, to say the least, somewhat Kafkaian.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u39	Madam President, Mrs Gilson, the budgetary cost resulting from the increase in the rate of the tax reduction from 45% to 60% for donations made in the revenue year 2020 is estimated at €32.2 million. The FPS Finances does not yet have the liberality figures for 2020. In fact, associations that have received donations still have to file their tax slips. Given the situation in 2020, with temporary unemployed employees and self-employed people having had to close their businesses, I do not think that the benefits for the year above will be greater than in 2019. As things stand, the government is not considering extending the measure for donations made in revenue year 2021, but this issue is under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. The public did question whether the measure in question would be extended. But I fully understand that it is necessary to be more attentist, given the many expenses resulting from the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u41	Madam President, Minister, the draft Royal Decree establishing the new College in the fight against tax and social fraud came very quickly, on 23 October 2020, as part of the action plan against social fraud and social dumping. A first meeting was held on 30 November 2020 under your presidency, which discussed the draft action plan for the BBI, the Administration of Taxation and the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service. Minister, what exactly is the composition of this College? What is the scheduled frequency of the meeting? In what sense exactly are the draft action plan coordinated? Can a substantive explanation be given? What other matters will this College address periodically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u42	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, you will find the members of the College in the Royal Decree of 9 November 2020, published in the Belgian Official Journal on 30 November. As far as the frequency of meetings is concerned, I have set the agenda of the new College monthly until the end of June 2021 and, if necessary, the frequency will be increased. The renewed College finally brings together all the forces that have done a lot of work separately in recent years in the fight against fraud. I have commissioned a joint multi-annual action plan. This action plan will be submitted to the Ministerial Committee and form the basis for the government's coordinated fraud policy. It is certainly not a static fact, because it can, of course, change. Depending on the evolution of the fraud phenomena, the College will be able to take initiatives. The next meeting will take place at the end of this month. A first set of concrete proposals will then be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u43	Minister, of course I understand the conciseness of your answer and I did not expect any more. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be useful to consider this joint multiannual action plan, which will form the basis for the government's fraud policy, in this committee. It cannot be intended to float in the wings of the new College.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u44	Madam President, Minister, we remain more or less in the same atmosphere. This question is about the excess profit rulings, but I do need to explain a little more. On 3 February 2015, the European Commission formally announced that it would examine the excess profit rulings as a possible element of State aid. Since then, the Belgian tax authorities have no longer allowed or renewed rulings, even as a result of the reform of corporate tax. It is therefore a legacy from the past, from previous governments. On 11 January 2016, the European Commission decided that excess profit rulings should be classified as prohibited State aid. In order to demonstrate this, the Commission used a sample-based collective procedure in 39 companies. The Belgian government was obliged to recover some 900 million euros, but a considerable amount. Your predecessor has given figures on this matter up to and including financial year 2018. In net terms, 797 million euros were recovered, gross 904 million euros. On 14 February 2019, the European Court of First Instance decided that the European Commission could not adequately demonstrate that the tax rules concerned a form of prohibited State aid, precisely because of the collective procedure used. On 16 September 2019, the European Commission announced that it would conduct separate in-depth investigations into the individual tax rulings and had also appealed against the judgment of the Court of Justice of the EU. Pending the final judgment of the European Court of Justice, there are already the conclusions of the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice. It states that the European Commission had indeed shown sufficient evidence of the qualification of State aid through the globo investigation. That's how the puzzle works. Mr Minister, the outcome of this legal appeal procedure can of course be of budgetary importance. In case of a possible refund, the aid now recovered from the companies should even be increased by moratorium interests. Minister, Belgium has appealed against the first decision of the European Commission. Can it be inferred from this that Belgium will appeal against any new decision by the European Commission that would claim that an individual overprofit is illegal state aid? With regard to the procedure to be followed, your predecessor, now the Prime Minister, has asked for an opinion from the administration. What are the main lines of this opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u45	Mr Ravyts, as you point out, in September 2019 the European Commission decided to open individual investigations into the over-profit rotation. By opening those individual formal investigation procedures, the Belgian authorities are legally obliged to suspend any payment of such aid. This means that even if the Court of Justice confirmed the view of the Court of First Instance in its judgment, the Belgian authorities would nevertheless be obliged to refuse restitution to the undertakings concerned. The primacy of European right to Belgian law implies that the reimbursement of the aid recovered from the companies concerned as a result of the Commission's decision of 11 January 2016 will be suspended. In the context of the individual investigations initiated by the European Commission in respect of the excess profit rotations granted by Belgium to 39 multinational companies, the Belgian State submitted written comments to the Commission in December 2019. The same general comments were submitted for the 39 individual investigations. It is now awaiting the final decisions that the Commission will take to close the formal, individual investigation procedures. You asked whether Belgium would appeal against any new decision by the European Commission that would claim that an individual over-profit rotation would involve illegal state aid. I do not wish to prejudge the Commission's final decisions. One of the arguments put forward by the Court of First Instance was that each case had to be assessed individually by the European Commission. As a function of the analysis of each final decision of the 39 individual investigations, it will therefore be decided what action will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u46	Minister, it is indeed an evolutionary fact. It is important that you emphasized the current suspension. I would also like to thank you for the information on the written comments submitted by the government in December 2019. The final final verdict in this almost intricate dossier remains to be seen. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeersch's 55011506C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u48	Once again, Minister, this is a follow-up question. On 4 February 2020, I submitted to your predecessor the audit report of the Court of Auditors, which made a number of recommendations in terms of organisation, legislation, risk analysis and monitoring of tax data obtained from international automatic exchange. An update of the first audit was published in November, including a review of the use by the tax authorities of the cross-border rulings and of the foreign country reports. Even if that concerned a limited number of Belgian companies, I think it is a welcome addition. The Court finds that the risk analysis of rulings and country reports is still largely in its infancy. The checks carried out on the basis of the data source "rulings" have so far produced hardly any results. According to the Court of Auditors, the tax authorities do not currently monitor and evaluate the results of the controls specifically related to foreign rulings. The monitoring and evaluation of the information contained in the country reports is also difficult. The tax authorities also do not include the foreign rulings received in the risk analysis of the country reports, as this information should not lead directly to the levying of additional taxes. Minister, what remedies do you propose in the light of the Court of Auditors' six recommendations on foreign rulings and the eight recommendations on foreign country reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u49	My administration, of course, takes the comment of the Court of Auditors to heart and examines how it can respond to the listed recommendations. The introduction of all international automatic information requires new technical and operational developments. My administration has already made great efforts in this area, which has taken important steps forward, even though further developments are needed to make the best use of the information. During international evaluations of the information, my administration reports on each of the points that could be improved, such as the quality of the information received and the use of sophisticated tools to link all the information together and thus raise the risk analysis to a higher level. A purchasing procedure is under way to use a commercial database to identify the proposers of the country reports and to better link the different forms. A procedure has also been initiated to improve data quality. Finally, my administration has submitted a proposal to the European Commission to cooperate with various foreign tax administrations on all that international intelligence in the European Union, so that ideas and best practices can be exchanged. All improvements are necessary, both for the rulings received and for the country reports, the necessary control actions for the audit work plan in 2021 are foreseen. Maximum use shall be made of the information received in their current form and shall take into account the experience of the previous control action. The Belgian version of the OECD TREAT tool was finalized. Only the final steps to obtain privacy and security approval are still to be completed. It is a fact that there is little point in multinational companies limiting research to one particular aspect in a group. It is more appropriate to study the whole set of effects of several aspects in order to make a correct assessment of the impact on the tax return. The added value of the information received internationally lies in its combination and so we implement this step by step through the selected projects. In order to follow up the results, certain fields have been added to the data sheets in which the results of the verification are communicated. However, account must be taken of the fact that it will remain difficult to identify whether a result obtained is the result of the information exchanged when several elements have been examined at the same time. Finally, my administration is convinced that the new sources of increased transparency are the right way towards a new and better approach for companies operating in a cross-border context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u50	Thank you, Minister. It is indeed a step-by-step implementation. Taxation of multinational companies is a complex whole where a lot of things have to be tied together. I hear with some satisfaction that there are procurement procedures in place to speed up technical and operational developments in this area and to raise risk analysis to a higher level. That must indeed be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u51	Madam President, Minister, this question was tabled on 8 December 2020 and has already been overtaken by the facts. That does not alter the fact that there are still a number of interesting elements which I would like to hear from you. After bazooka 1 and 2 there is now bazooka 3. You had already announced this in your policy statement, in which you stated that you would resume the dialogue with the banking sector. There's something I need to get off my chest that's not in the question. We were a little surprised by the new banking agreement. Why wasn't that discussed in committee? The two previous ones, bazooka 1 and 2, were discussed in committee, but apparently they were not. I would have expected, in the context of the transparency announced in the government agreement, that we would at least be informed in advance. Quod nun. I couldn't help but think about it. Then I come to the concrete questions in the context of bazooka 3. What's the result? That is quite logical, you have reached an agreement, but what are the right conditions for guarantees for new loans? An extension until 30 June, as I understand. We received a very interesting presentation yesterday by the National Bank, on which I have already received a number of answers to my questions, but I would have liked to have heard from you. What adjustments will you make to the previous State guarantee? Then I come to the two questions I did not ask yesterday, but the answer would interest me. Is the information correct that the entire retail sector would be blacklisted by the banks when it comes to loans? What measures will you take to ensure that the state guarantee will protect the retail sector, especially the catering sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u52	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, I do not entirely agree with your observation that we have not discussed the dossier here. I do not know which draft law is correct anymore, but at a certain point in the committee, just after we made the agreement with the banks, an amendment was tabled to enable the state guarantee and the guaranteed loans. We have had to table an amendment to make this possible. In that context, a number of questions were asked at the time, including by your colleague Mr Loones. We have therefore had a discussion in committee on this dossier. I will now answer your questions. Due to the severity and duration of the corona crisis, the State guarantee introduced has been adapted to continue to support SMEs through credit institutions' lending. Those adjustments are, of course, carried out under the Temporary Framework drawn up by the European Commission and are included in the draft Royal Decree, published on 30 December 2020. The State guarantee for SME loans, established by Law of 20 July 2020, has been adapted to the following points: firstly, the extension until 30 June 2021; secondly, the extension of the maximum duration from three years to five years of the credits eligible for the State guarantee. I think we have discussed an amendment on this. Thirdly, there is an increase in the remuneration for the State guarantee, in accordance with the Temporary Framework and the maximum guaranteed interest rate, in order to allow SMEs with a higher risk profile to benefit from a guaranteed credit. With these adjustments, we encourage credit institutions to fully support the economy and businesses through lending to SMEs. I do not have any objective element to indicate the existence of a blacklist. Companies that believe they have been wrongly refused a credit can initially discuss the matter with their own bank. If they have any further questions, they may also address the call centre set up by the FSMA. In addition, Febelfin has set up a central contact point specifically for the corona measures. Any complaints can, as always, also be submitted to the Ombudsperson for financial disputes, Ombudsfin. Ombudsfin deals with disputes between companies and their financial institution regarding the execution of a credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The issue has indeed been briefly raised. It has been said that there would be a new arrangement, but this was discussed in more detail at bazooka 1 and bazooka 2. However, I would like to thank you for your reply, particularly on the black list, in particular that you do not have any objective data on this issue. Let's hope it stays that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u54	Madam President, Minister, to comfort Mr Van der Donkt, this question was tabled at the beginning of November and was scheduled twice in the Committee on Mobility and yesterday I heard that it will be answered here today. A press release published at the end of October showed that Lineas........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The federal government, the banks and the company's private owner are working on a support package of over 60 million euros." The FPIM would take over the remaining interest of 10% of SNCB in Lineas and lend the company a loan. The stock package would be reportedly valued at only a few millions. The banks and the main shareholder, investment fund Argos Wityu, would also make an effort. It is expected that a solution will be reached by the end of 2020. So my question may be out of date, but that will be evident from your answer. I read and hear, as you probably do, quite a lot of conditional indications in this dossier, from which it can be noted in particular that the communication of the federal government is premature and very positive. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Did that solution come out at the end of 2020? Is this solution indeed that the FPIM takes over the remaining 10% of SNCB's shares in Lineas? What are the terms of the loan? Not insignificant, is the price of this stock package already appreciated? Is the price of this stock package under pressure as a result of the corona crisis and measures, which also weigh heavily on the freight sector? How many banks want to make an effort? How big is this effort, expressed as a percentage? What effort would the investment group Argos Wityu make, also expressed as a percentage, to reach the promised package of over €60 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u55	Mr De Spiegeleer, I wish you congratulations for following up all the financial questions, even if you are part of the Mobility Committee, if I understand correctly. However, the question has been pending for a very long time and I shall be happy to answer it, although the answer will be rather limited. As indicated in the press, there are indeed discussions on the purchase by the FPIM of the shares of Lineas owned by SNCB, in view of an additional financing transaction by Lineas. It is not an intervention in a representative mission but an intervention in the framework of FPIM's traditional investment activity. However, negotiations are still ongoing and the FPIM, as is customary with this type of transaction, is bound by a confidentiality agreement during the negotiations. Moreover, this type of agreement is always accompanied by a confidentiality clause prohibiting communication of the terms of the agreement, the dissemination of which could put Lineas, which is evolving in a competitive environment, in a negative light. The process followed complies with the usual rules for this type of transaction and I cannot give you any more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u56	Minister, I understand, of course, that the confidentiality agreement to which the FPIM is bound is very important, but the deadline of the end of 2020 was not met. We will continue to monitor the matter, including from the Mobility Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u57	Minister, I admit that this question is very broad. But oral questions can also be a means of checking what is claimed in open stands. I do not have the truth on lease, perhaps not tax experts, but they do have the title expert and therefore have more right to point out that there is no legal certainty in the area of rulings. They consider that the application of the 2002 law, which introduced the system of prior decisions with regard to a tax ruling system, shows some shortcomings. Any taxable person may ask the Prior Decisions Service of the FPS to confirm in a prior decision in tax matters how the law will be applied to a specific situation or operation that has not yet had any effect in the tax field. The Law on that ruling clarifies that such a decision of the DVB binds the FPS Finance for the future, if the taxpayer has described and implemented all the relevant facts of the transaction as described. However, such a decision does not bind the FPS if it does not comply with the provisions of the Treaties of Community law or of national law. It appears that more and more tax controllers do not want to take account of the prior decision because they do not agree with the way in which the DVB interprets the applicable legal provisions. It is therefore a question of an interpretation dispute, which has been identified by a number of experts in tax law. Mr Minister, can you confirm that at the FPS a growing number of preliminary decisions in tax matters are being challenged by tax controllers and there is therefore a growing number of divergent views on the interpretation of the legislation in the FPS? If so, should the legislation on rulings be amended or should the FPS Finance be called upon to take more account of the spirit and text of the 2002 law? This would not be enough, according to the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u58	Mr Ravyts, thank you for a very interesting question concerning an important discussion. I also think it is important to provide legal certainty. The system of prior decisions therefore continues to receive my unconditional support. The valuation services also have the right to verify whether the conditions of a decision have been complied with and whether the decision has been implemented, in accordance with the agreements made. At the moment there are indeed a number of discussions pending on delivered decisions which are contested by the valuation services. It is not the task of the valuation services to duplicate the work of the Prior Decisions Service and, if they come to a different conclusion, to disregard the prior decision, simply because it would be contrary to Community law or national law. In order to avoid this situation and to provide as much legal certainty as possible, I am currently working on proposals for legal and organisational adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u59	Minister, the freestands are often right. You acknowledge that there are a number of discussions between the valuation services and the DVB. We look forward with interest to your legislative and organisational proposals. I am also pleased that you said at the beginning of your speech that you are fond of the system and want to fully respect it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u60	Minister, a remarkable report from the Court of Auditors was published on the second pillar of pensions. The Court of Auditors examined the effectiveness of public policy on social and tax incentives. I know that there are a lot of powers in this area with your colleague Lalieux, but that does not apply to everything. This is, as we know, about the deductibility of employers in the construction of the second pillar. 75% of the working population of the European Union, 3,8 million Belgians, are involved and they represent reserves of EUR 85 billion. However, these reserves are barely distributed. So much for the facts. The Court of Auditors remains cautious, but nevertheless identifies some problems related to the so-called 80 % rule, which limits the deductibility of deposits. There are problems in checking for lack of legal parameters necessary for the calculation. As you know, there is still no KB that sets the parameters pending the announced reform of the 80 % rule. In addition, there are apparently also problems with cooperation with Sigedis, the service that manages the supplementary pension database. The Court of Auditors' report contains some recommendations for a cooperation agreement or partnership. There is no doubt that you are competent in this area. This is an important issue for the revenue of the federal government. I am therefore curious to hear your reaction, from your powers, to this important and yet curious report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u61	Mr Ravyts, the Court of Auditors indeed points to a number of problems relating to the building up of supplementary pensions and the application of the 80% rule in particular. On a regulatory level, the Court recommends, inter alia, that a system be introduced to limit the tax deductibility of contributions which can be applied to all supplementary pensions and which is adapted to the current situation of supplementary pensions. The High Council of Finance, in its opinion of May 2020 on reducing the burden on labour and the possibilities for financing it, pointed out that the tax and parafiscal rules governing the building up of a supplementary pension within the second pillar should be thoroughly reviewed and made more uniform in order to allow effective control and prevent any abuse, including back-service. For workers and especially for workers with low supplementary pensions, the Court of Auditors also recommends linking a sufficient level of funding as a condition to social and/or tax incentives and thus aligning supplementary pensions with the objectives of public policy. It seems to me only logical that I, as Minister of Finance, should take these advice to heart and see how it can be met. I will, of course, consult with my colleagues in the government who are also responsible for supplementary pensions. For the operational part, I will instruct my administration to implement the comments of the Court of Auditors. That's how I clarified things, Mr. Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u62	Minister, it is a good thing that you yourself link up with the report of the High Council of Finance in May 2020. He also said that tax and parafiscal rules on supplementary pensions should be made more uniform. I personally agree with that. There is, of course, also the question of the adequate level of funding for workers. We are looking forward to the follow-up with interest. It is also good that you acknowledge the operational difficulties and that you intend to do something about them. We'll follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u63	The Minister is available until 12:30 p.m. Questions Nos 55011710 by Mrs Farih and 55011742 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u64	Madam President, Minister, one of the aid measures negotiated by the government with the banks is the exemption from capital repayment. The period of exemption shall not exceed 9 months. Unfortunately, there are many companies that are only just able to survive, and it does not yet look like the situation is going to improve. If the exemption was granted in 2020, this means that it will end this month. Where undertakings inform of a continuation of the exemption, they will be given the answer that they themselves will have to negotiate with the bank. Are you still behind this nine-month period? Given the current context, in which many companies are still unable or unable to operate fully, could it not be interesting to review this scheme? Will you talk to the banks again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u65	Madam President, Mrs Houtmeyers, in the amended charters drawn up by Febelfin, the total cumulative postponement of a credit is indeed limited to 9 months. This limitation in the charters is a necessary requirement by the European Banking Authority (EBA) to continue the moratorium. As a result of the increase in the number of corona infections in autumn, EBA decided on 2 December 2020 to re-activate this prudential treatment of exposures under general moratoria that expired on 30 December 2020, subject to additional conditions. Firstly, a delay should be granted before 31 March 2021. Secondly, a general delay can change the payment schedule of an exposure for a maximum of 9 months, the so-called 9 month cap. Thirdly, the appropriations must be closed before 1 April 2020. Deferral of payments already granted under the previous legal moratorium on mortgage loans for private individuals and corporate loans, should thus, in accordance with EBA's decision, be taken into account for the determination of the maximum cumulative payment delay of 9 months. Of course, the 9-month cap should not prevent banks from finding the best solutions with borrowers so that they can resume repayment of their credit. However, as soon as the 9 month cap is reached, these solutions will have to be developed on an individual basis. At the end of that period, the banks will therefore work with the companies to find tailor-made solutions. It is appropriate that companies in financial difficulties should engage with their banker as soon as possible. In addition, solutions tailored to the company can use instruments other than merely defer repayment of capital. The instruments that can be used in addition to deferment of payment are additional financing, with or without a guarantee from the federal or regional authorities, a restructuring of the appropriations by extending the duration of the credits and a better spread of repayment costs over time, or by using additional capital in the form of subordinated loans or additional own resources. The use of other instruments can also provide a structural solution tailored to the specific situation of a company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For many companies, this will certainly not be an obvious matter, because I believe that many companies are currently arriving at those maximum nine months. Finding a tailor-made solution with the banks will not be evident either, especially for companies that are now in difficult papers. I think we need to think further about how we can support a number of companies in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u67	Minister, I will keep it simple, also out of respect for the interpreters. After all, my question contains quite a few English-language quotes. I therefore refer to the written text I have tabled, and I look forward to your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u68	Een belangrijke boodschap die McCaul in haar blogpost herhaalt is: 'existing accounting and prudential rules should continue to be applied in order to identify any real unfolding credit deterioration as accurately as possible'. M.a.w.: banks should continue to follow the ECB guidelines in order to identify vulnerable borrowers at an early stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u69	Therefore, the ECB encouraged the banks' CEOs by letter to increase transparency about their poor lending. “We sent a letter to banks in July asking them to prepare and gear up their operational capacity to manage credit risk deterioration. We stressed the importance of ensuring that early arrears are managed in a timely manner through efficient systems for debtor outreach and for designing bespoke debt restructuring solutions. We also highlighted the need for regular and detailed risk reporting to management bodies based on adequate early warning indicators and risk segmentation of the portfolios", schrijft McCaul.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u70	Mr Van der Donkt, the National Bank is aware of the problem and pays particular attention to the detection of problem loans by the Belgian banks. Banks must continue to apply their internal policies and prudential framework during the moratorium in order to assess credit quality and detect potential problem credits. The National Bank found that each bank applies a different ad hoc procedure to identify problem loans. This difference in approach was also identified between the other European banks and is characteristic of measures taken to deal with exceptional situations, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. The ad hoc procedures shall include one or more of the following measures. First, there is an individual contact with more vulnerable clients to identify potential problems and to ensure that the situation of clients is adequately reflected in the bank's credit risk management and own funds requirements. Secondly, new tools are used to collect all available information on loans and clients. Finally, additional provisions are maintained to take account of the uncertain economic situation and the financial situation of clients. However, some European indicators seem to indicate that several of our banks are generally quite conservative in their approach, at least for capital requirements and the adoption of tolerance measures for clients in difficulty. The European Central Bank has confirmed once again that the major European banks must be able to demonstrate that their systems are adequate for the timely detection of problem loans. At Belgian level, the National Bank also expressed the same expectations vis-à-vis the less important institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your somewhat reassuring reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u72	Madam President, Minister, I already asked a question about this in plenary on 17 December, but I remained somewhat hungry at that time. I would have liked some clarification on the appointment procedure of the new President. Minister, how is the screening of candidate bank managers by the National Bank going? On what criteria does the National Bank assess whether a candidate is fit and clean? To what extent does the current procedure comply with fundamental and generally recognised corporate governance rules? To what extent can Parliament check whether the supervisor is carrying out this task correctly and in compliance with all the rules of the game? Does the National Bank decide itself or does it advise the European Central Bank alone? Has the headhunter in its recommendation expressed a preference for certain candidates, as is customary? If so, who was or were those candidates? If so, why was the selected candidacy not taken into account? Is the proposed candidate, Mr Chris Sunt, included in the shortlist drawn up by the headhunter? If not, why was a professional headhunter called upon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u73	Madam President, Mr Donné, in accordance with the European regulation on the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the assessment of suitability for assessment is the so-called fit-and-proper review of directors of major banks such as Belfius within the competence of the European Central Bank. The same Regulation provides that national Parliaments may, through their own procedures, request a written response from the ECB to their comments or questions on matters of prudential supervision falling within the competence of the ECB. Without prejudice to the answers requested by the ECB to sub-questions 1 to 4, I can provide you with some information. The procedure and the criteria for carrying out this assessment of the suitability of directors are laid down in European legislation and transposed into Belgian law through the Law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies. By means of a circular, the National Bank of Belgium has clarified the applicable procedure and the criteria. The banks themselves play an important role in fit-and-clean testing. They must document their selection process, create job profiles and subject the candidates themselves to due diligence. The dossier of the selected candidate shall be submitted to the supervisors, after which an additional examination shall be carried out by the ECB and the relevant supervisor. Following this examination, the ECB shall communicate its decision to the credit institution. A review procedure shall be open to the Administrative Council against this decision. The decision may also be challenged before the Court of Justice of the European Union. For such appointments, an external agency is called upon to look for candidates who can meet the requirements of fit and clean. This external office shall assist the nomination committee and the Board of Directors of Belfius Bank in the further evaluation and screening of the selected candidates in close consultation with the FPIM as the shareholder's representative. Afterwards, the National Bank of Belgium and the ECB will examine the candidate to be proposed. The FPIM has been closely involved in the selection procedure for the Chairmanship of Belfius Bank's Board of Directors in its role as an advisor to the public authorities. Last year, an external agency carried out a search for the successor of Mr Clijsters as President of Belfius Bank. This turned out not to lead to a candidate acceptable to everyone, which led Mr Clijsters to agree to hold the Presidency for a maximum of two years until April 2022 at the latest. A new search was launched just before the summer of 2020, as Mr Clijsters asked to be able to be replaced at the general meeting which would then take place in April 2021. The FPIM was also regularly consulted on the procedure which was then restarted. At the beginning of November 2020, a specially established ad hoc committee within Belfius Bank made a proposal. The FPIM was also consulted. The Governing Board of Belfius Bank agreed to that proposal at the end of November. This proposal will normally be put to the vote at the General Assembly in April 2021, subject, of course, to the outcome of the fit-and-clean procedure at the ECB. That's all the information I can give you so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u74	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but that is actually the same answer I received in the December plenary. Nor have I had any answers to my questions concerning the shortlist of the headhunter and the candidate who will eventually be proposed. In addition, I asked how the National Bank will screen whether a candidate is fit and clean. I'm still hungry. It is strange that Parliament cannot have transparency, while the name and so on of the new President is already circulating everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u75	Question No 55011851C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u76	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is about the federal tax shelter system that was put in place a few years ago under the previous legislature. This is a system that Ecolo-Groen had supported at the time, from the opposition benches, and was intended only for start-ups before being extended to growing companies (scale-up, in jargon). The individual who invests up to EUR 100 000 each year in a start-up company and who maintains his investment for four years benefits from a tax reduction ranging from 25 to 45 % depending on the type of business. This is what the SME tax shelter system consists of. In July 2020, the government decided to extend this tax shelter to all SMEs that suffered from the health crisis. In concrete terms, these are all those whose turnover fell by at least 30% over the period from 14 March to 30 April 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The capital increase in this framework is capped at EUR 250,000 but can be combined with the amounts provided for under the classic tax shelter. Tax reductions are linked to this. We have always supported these systems, even if as ecologists we would have liked them to be more targeted towards the local economy, sustainable and job-creating in our regions. Minister, could you tell us what amounts have been raised under the classic tax shelter for start-ups and scale-ups since its inception, by year and by type of business? Could you also provide us with the amounts that were raised under the tax shelter special covid-19 introduced in July? This would allow us to see, depending on the types of enterprises, whether this system has been active or whether it has created aid and capital for enterprises. Finally, we know that our SMEs will certainly need liquidity and equity in the coming months. Do you therefore intend to adapt or modify the rules of these tax shelter systems which mobilise the savings of citizens towards SMEs which, in times of crisis and certainly at present, need them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u77	Madam Chair, Mr.Vanden Burre, with respect to your first question, I can provide you with the amounts invested in the personal tax returns for the 2016 to 2019 tax years, respectively, the 2015 to 2018 income years. An extensive table showing the amounts by tax year and by type of corporation was tabled at the Registry of Parliament. More specifically, I would point out that during the 2015 to 2018 revenue years, the taxpayers concerned invested €110.4 million in micro companies, €13.2 million in small companies and €2 million in growing companies. With respect to the 2020 income year, I do not yet have any concrete data, since taxpayers will only report the amounts in this respect in their personal tax return for the 2021 tax year. Therefore, the data in question will only be available around July 2022. Currently, the government is not considering changing the tax shelter for SMEs. Nevertheless, it goes without saying that the government is carrying out a permanent monitoring of this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. If you have the documents, I'll take them. If they're at the registry, I'll wait for the secretariat to send them to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u79	Madam President, Minister, I had already asked the Governor of the National Bank during her presentation in the Finance Committee about the growing difficulties faced by young households who want to acquire property and who no longer have access to the mortgage. I know that banks have room for manoeuvre, but we must already have an important guarantee before we can hope to enter into a loan. It is indeed more and more complicated for a young household, even with two wages, to take out a mortgage to buy a first property, Minister, since the end of 2019, the BNB, with the aim of reducing debt, has decided to impose new rules. For a real estate loan, the maximum amount borrowed is now 90% of the value of the property. Although the objective is commendable, these new rules are prohibitive because many young people do not have the 10% necessary to access this mortgage, especially since registration fees and notary fees must be added. It is therefore realized that a significant percentage of young families no longer have access to the property at all, as a study by Immotheker Finotheker has been published. It is well known that the first bulwark against poverty is to have access to housing. It is therefore necessary at all costs to improve the accessibility of property for these young households who can afford to borrow, to have a refund and to become owners. The Government Agreement provides for measures to reduce the cost of acquiring real property or to review the financing of a housing loan, in agreement with neighbouring sectors and countries. Minister, are any measures implementing these objectives being prepared? If so, which ones? What is your vision to make it easier for these young people to access the property? Do you have any figures on the effects of the health crisis on the real estate market and, in particular, on access to property for young households? It is increasingly understood that real estate agencies are looking for property, especially in the slightly greener areas of our country, for people who wish to leave apartments in favour of small houses with gardens. Of course, confinement has marked a lot of people. It is also understood that many young people are trying to gain access to the property. Minister, I would like to hear from you on this issue. Do you have any figures in this regard? Above all, I would like to know more about the objectives and measures that can help these young households become homeowners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u80	Mrs Reuter, thank you for your question. My administration is currently preparing a study on the various costs associated with the acquisition of real estate and the refinancing of a mortgage. The objectives are to improve the transparency of the costs associated with this transaction and to reduce them. A wide-ranging simplification is envisaged. This simplification concerns federal taxes, fees and fees. This study therefore does not include regionalized registration rights such as the right to sell, share and donate, as well as the right to set up a mortgage, or notary fees, which fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. First of all, the scope of the new rules of the National Bank of Belgium on maximum quotas, more specifically with regard to young households or first-time purchasers, needs to be improved. More than one third (35%) of new mortgage loans granted may exceed this 90% quota threshold. Of course, the recommendations of the National Bank are generally aimed at reducing risks, i.e. quotients in new credit production. The above 35% margin of tolerance, which is much higher for young borrowers than for other segments of borrowers, must, however, ensure access to mortgage credit for the majority of these young borrowers. Statistics provided by the National Bank show that the vast majority of young borrowers (under 35) in total new mortgages declined only slightly in 2020. More than a third of new mortgages continue to be granted to young households. In this sense, neither the introduction of new recommendations of the National Bank nor the crisis of the covid-19 seem to have had a major impact on access to mortgage credit and hence to property by young households. In addition, real estate prices rose faster in 2020 than in previous years. This phenomenon is not unique to Belgium but is also observed throughout Europe. However, it is not necessary to draw hasty conclusions in relation to these developments which could be influenced by temporary mismatch phenomena between supply and demand for certain types of goods, e.g. goods with garden or terrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u81	Minister, I hear quite optimistic comments. Finally, one third of housing loans are granted to young households. Indeed, this 35 per cent margin of manoeuvre of the loans granted makes it possible to get out of the 90 per cent mandatory quota margin. However, in fact, I see something else, by discussing with bankers but also with young people who hope to acquire a good. It is realized that banks that do not want to take the risk of lending to young people do not use their flexibility and use the 90% mandatory quota rule to reject many mortgage applications. We realize that in areas like mine, the Walloon Brabant, where real estate prices have blazed, it is extremely complicated for young people to stay in the area where they grew up if they don't have an important input to inject. There is a real problem for young households, I believe, despite your positive comments. I think we really need to be careful that this margin of tolerance is real and not used only for the good customers, who are ultimately favoured. I'm going back to the study in progress at your firm. I hope that you will hand it over to the Finance Committee and we will be able to access it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u82	Madam President, Mr Leysen, when a taxable person who temporarily has to pay only part of the rent or no rent to a leasing company as a result of the compulsory closure of the Covid-19 pandemic, the benefit conferred, namely the reduction or remission of the rent, will not in principle be regarded as an abnormal or auspicious advantage. Whether a claim made as a result of commercial leases which, as a result of the compulsory closure by the COVID-19 pandemic, is deductible by the leasing company as a professional cost must be considered on a case-by-case basis. If the undertaking makes such a waiver in order to obtain or retain taxable income, a condition which will be met in many cases, the rent forgone as a cost may be regarded as a deductible professional cost. I hope I have made this clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u83	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u84	Madam President, Minister, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes for the year 2021. I hope this new year will be better than the previous one. Having said that, given the busy agenda, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u85	Mr Cogolati, thank you for your good wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u86	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, since January 1, 2021, the FPS Finances is no longer competent for real estate discount. Indeed, on that date, the last Region to have not yet done so, namely the Walloon Region, has taken over the service of this tax. Since the Flemish Region took over the real estate account service since 1 January 1999, data on the Doel nuclear power plant fall within the competence of Vlabel. For previous tax years, undisputed discounts were granted due to the inactivity of more than 90 days of the Tihange plant's equipment and tools. Only the proportional reduction due to unproductiveness of immovable property is subject to the condition of involuntary character. This is not the case for the causes of inactivity of equipment and tools. The municipalities are aware of the discounts via the monthly scales sent to them and can check, via MyMinfin, whether claims are pending. For the rest, I invite you to address my relevant regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u88	Minister, I would like to help your Vivaldi coalition, because I suppose Vivaldi doesn't like to see parties like mine enjoying even more support in the future. Communication is the magic word. Well, the communication about the federal incentive bonus wasn't okay. Allow me to include the recent events in the United States. Problems are not always created by forces on Facebook. Sometimes people spontaneously raise problems, for which they contact parties, who then post the problem on Facebook. You need to think this through. When your fellow minister communicated the gross amount of the federal incentive premium, the government cannot expect the people in the field to have the necessary tax knowledge to know that the incentive premium is taxed as an exceptional fee. That is at the heart of the problem. Communication is the basis for it. That's a first case, actually more of a statement. A second issue related to this was that there was the possibility of working through the collective agreement 90-bonus. In this case, the net amount of the premium granted would have been much higher for those concerned. Minister, what is your view on the problem of the exceptional corporate tax on premium-related remuneration? Are you prepared to contact your colleague, the Minister responsible for Social Affairs, regarding the theoretical possibility of using the 90-bonus collective agreement? We cannot return to the past, but there is still a Flemish premium coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u89	Mr Ravyts, first of all, in your question you are referring to an exceptional corporate levy, but of course it is not an exceptional corporate levy, but an exceptional fee to which company withholding tax is applied. Exceptional allowances are professional income paid by the employer outside the normal remuneration or granted to his staff, such as occasional commissions, special and exceptional gratuities, end-of-year premiums, holiday allowance, wage bonus or overtime. For the exceptional allowances, the calculation of the holding tax shall be based on the annual amount of normal gross income. On the basis of that amount, the percentage to be applied to the exceptional benefit or allowance shall be determined. This also makes sense, since the exceptional allowance is taxed together with the other occupational income. It is the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation and the FPS Social Security that are primarily competent to qualify the collective agreement 90-bonus. They will therefore have to decide whether or not the proposed premium can be classified as a collective agreement 90 bonus. If this is the case, the bonus shall be subject to a special employer contribution of 33% and a solidarity contribution of 13,07 % for the employee. Where the bonus is actually subject to these social contributions, it shall be eligible for a tax exemption up to an amount of EUR 2,998 for the 2021 income year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for the technical explanation of the 90-bonus collective agreement. I understand that this is not your priority competence. It is correct that it is not an exceptional corporate tax, as I have wrongly written, but an exceptional fee. As I explained in my question, according to some experts, the formula of the collective agreement 90-bonus would be applicable to the healthcare sector and hospitals networks. There's someone here from the federal majority. It is perhaps interesting to see whether this can be used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u91	Madam President, Mr Donné, taxpayers can deduct VAT on passenger cars according to the three methods described in the circular you quote. The deduction shall not exceed 50%, in accordance with the VAT Code. The semi-forfaitistic method, the second method to which you refer, takes into account, inter alia, a flat-rate determined number of working days performed per calendar year, fixed at 200 days. This takes into account holidays, sick days, days of telework, part-time work and so on. However, I acknowledge that the circumstances have been special over the past year. However, a uniform adjustment of this formula in terms of the number of days of commuting for all taxable persons is not self-evident. In many cases, telework has been applied by a large proportion of workers for almost the entire period, following the recommendation of the government. Sometimes the employer was forced to place workers under the temporary unemployment scheme. In other cases, for example for the essential professions, work has continued as before. A general adjustment for all taxable persons to 100 working days on a flat-rate basis or a break in relation to the number of days or months of lockdown would thus lead to a distortion of the right to deduct the taxable persons concerned. Your proposal to adapt the semi-forfaitistic formula for each individual employee to the effective number of days worked at the place of employment would in turn lead to additional administrative burdens on taxable persons who are required to provide evidence on a case-by-case basis. In view of the exceptional circumstances, I am prepared to allow taxable persons using the above-mentioned semi-forfait method to exercise their right to deduct for the calendar year 2020 in accordance with the existing general flat rate of 35% according to method 3 of the circular. From calendar year 2021 onwards, these taxable persons may apply the semi-forfait method, thus removing the condition of maintaining this method for a period of four years for calendar year 2020. It shall also be allowed to combine Method 2 and Method 3 during the calendar year 2020. The other conditions relating to the application of methods 2 and 3 are maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u92	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u93	Mr Donné, the granting and compliance with a payment plan does not exclude that the debt comparison can be carried out without formalities for any amount to be returned or paid to the taxable person. Moreover, the reservation to proceed with that debt comparison is expressly stated in the letter in which the payment plan is granted. Where a refund is already known at the time of the award of the plan, it shall be taken into account in the calculation of the monthly payments. The same applies to aid granted to companies under the coronavirus, such as a payment plan with exemption from negligence and remission of fines for non-payment. In this case, the possibility of use without formalities will be the subject of a careful investigation, with the maximum aim of leaving the company sufficient financial space to cope with the crisis. It should also be borne in mind that the disappearance of the debt resulting from the compensation has a beneficial effect on the company's solvency. In summary, the granting of a payment plan does not exclude the compensation for restitution. The reservation of compensation shall also be expressly stated when the payment plan is granted. Moreover, the plan granted takes maximum account of already established but not yet repaid returns. Specifically with regard to a plan authorised under the corona aid measures, the implementation of the compensation shall be subject to a prior examination of the specific circumstances of the taxpayer before applying them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u94	Mr. Matheii, the party is almost over. Unfortunately, the last question from our morning meeting is now to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u95	Negotiations between the Netherlands and Belgium have not yet formally resumed, but that is the intention. We must, of course, also take account of the forthcoming elections in the Netherlands at the end of March. If the negotiations lead in the long term to a new treaty between Belgium and the Netherlands, it will be examined at that time, in consultation with other colleagues concerned, whether it is appropriate to set up a committee following the example of the then Committee on Frontier Workers. That committee was set up at the time at the request of the Ministers for Finance and Social Affairs. The committee's task was to identify the bottlenecks faced by frontier workers in practice as a result of the transition from the old to the new double taxation treaty. The committee should also propose recommendations and solutions for all identified bottlenecks. After all, the abolition of the frontier regime has suddenly made frontier workers taxable in their country of employment and not in their country of residence. Since both Belgium and the Netherlands adhere to the OECD Model Convention on that domain, there is nothing to suggest that a future new treaty will change the existing one. Contrary to what you claim, the then Committee on Frontier Workers represented all the parties concerned in a balanced way: workers' and employers' organisations, representatives of frontier workers, political parties, external experts and representatives of the government departments of Finance, Social Affairs and Work. Until the negotiations with the Netherlands are concluded, it is premature to talk about adverse income effects and possible compensation for such effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic330x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I look forward to the next few months.
