ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u1	Mr President, Minister, one of the few points of light in the Vivaldi rule agreement is the mention that in this legislature the Länder are given the opportunity to turn a holiday into a paid holiday. The Communities and the Brussels-Capital Region have long been on a holiday. For a number of state officials this is already a paid holiday but also for part of the private sector that does so on a voluntary basis. However, for many other workers from these Communities this is still not the case. The passage in the coalition agreement does raise some questions, because you can walk different slopes to realize this. One slope is the bill that Flemish Interest has submitted, whereby a holiday is given to the Communities by a decision of the federal government. Another option is to transfer the power to do so to the Länder. The question is also whether the Länder in that agreement mean the Communities or the Regions. The latter option certainly does not favour us, because it would leave the German-speaking community out of business. I have already asked questions on this matter to the two Ministers for Institutional Reforms. Minister Clarinval has referred me to you, without replying himself. Minister Verlinden referred me to Minister Dermagne in her reply. In the meantime, he has informed me that he will consult with the Ministers for Liberation and Clarinval and also with you in order to implement this. Has this meeting taken place yet? What steps will be taken to implement this passage from the coalition agreement? What timetable will one follow? Are we leaving the Community with the choice of whether or not to introduce the paid holiday, as suggested by the government agreement? Is it for the Communities or for the Regions, or for the two, as Minister Dermagne makes appear? How will this be achieved, either through federal decision-making or by transferring the issue to the Communities? Finally, how will this be achieved without additional budgetary costs, as provided for in the coalition agreement? By introducing a mandatory replacement day? For me, that may be July 21st. Or will that happen in another way? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Pas, it is true that this suggestion was included in the coalition agreement. It also states that it should be done without budgetary impact. It must be effective to replace an existing legal holiday which, for example, falls on the weekends, as there is one each year by a free holiday to be chosen by the Länder, or to exchange an ordinary day of annual leave for the holiday of the elected Community. As you yourself have said, Mr Dermagne, the functionally competent Minister for Labour, is working on this. He is currently examining exactly how to implement the transition and he will prepare a draft, together with the Ministers for Institutional Reforms Depleting and Clarinval, and also in consultation with ourselves. I'm waiting for that analysis right now. However, there have already been contacts at the level of the Cabinets which, although not yet leading to a conclusion, have been able to consider, as far as I am concerned, the possibilities for federal officials. In the meantime, my administration has also made an analysis of this part of the coalition agreement, an analysis which will be discussed with colleagues in the near future. That is the situation at the moment. I cannot answer your questions in more detail, but I hope that we will be able to do so very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her reply and look forward to her analysis. I have also understood from Minister Dermagne that his administration has meanwhile examined which legislation needs to be amended. I haven't heard from the Minister of Foreign Affairs any definite timing, but we're sure to follow this up. I am glad, however, that you are not waiting for an initiative from the Länder themselves, as I have had to hear in previous answers. I follow it very closely with you, because I am very curious how and how quickly this will be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u4	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u5	Mr President, Mrs van Peel, I confirm that I am aware of the judgment in No. 1/20221 of 14 January 2021 of the Constitutional Court, in which it replied in the affirmative to a question referred for a preliminary ruling on the limitation to 25% of the interest paid to a victim of an accident at work in the public sector. As regards your first question, as a result of the judgment, I instructed my services to carry out an analysis with a view to adapting Article 6 (1) of the Law of 3 July 1967 on the prevention or compensation of accidents at work, accidents on the way to and from work and occupational diseases in the public sector. My services dealing with accidents at work and occupational diseases have indeed added the file to their list of pending files on this matter. I expect a concrete response and a response in the coming months. I can't be more precise right now, but people are working on it. As regards your second question, I would like to say that I fully agree with your analysis. The Constitutional Court considers that the restriction is mandatory and must be applied regardless of the origin of the damages, in other words the private or public sector. The limitation of interest rates to 25% of the previous basic wage should therefore also be applied to civil servants, who are now also receiving interest for an accident at work still dating from previous employment in the private sector. My services have already contacted the counsel who defended the federal government in this file. We are therefore convinced that this difference in the treatment of employees who have been the victims of an accident at work must be eliminated. The regulation needs to be adapted accordingly. I will ensure that, in addition to other priority initiatives in the field of accidents at work, the necessary regulatory adjustments can be made in the coming months, at least before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u6	Madam Secretary, that was very clear. We are once again in agreement. I wish you every success in the work. I'll see them show up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I hope we can agree with the previous speaker. That would be nice and easy to work for you. I have a question about the mandate. In your policy paper, I read the following: "As far as mandate holders are concerned, efforts are being made to further objectify the selection process and work is being carried out on a dynamic career path, taking into account the built-up management expertise in the event of a possible change in the mandate function or after the successful termination of the mandate." Candidates are appointed today for a period of not more than six years. Each holder of a management function shall be evaluated annually during the term of office. Renewal is possible for mandate holders who receive the indication'met the expectations' after a first mandate or the final mention 'excellent' after a second or subsequent mandate. He or she is then considered to have participated in a comparative selection so that the selection does not have to continue and he or she may continue to work. I would have liked to have asked you about the following developments in the mandate system, as described in your policy paper. That is why I have the following questions. In what way do you want to objectify the selection procedure? Are you thinking, for example, of an external selection agency for the recruitment of mandate holders? If not, do you intend to reform Selor? If you want to do that, how do you see that? In what way do you want to promote a dynamic career? I understand that this matter is close to your heart. To this day, it is not entirely clear to me. Are you thinking of revising the evaluation system? If so, how do you intend to do that? Finally, do you intend to review the terms of office? In what way do you intend to achieve the depoliticisation of mandate functions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, thank you for your questions. It is true that it is my ambition to use the current legislature to improve recruitment and selection of top management within the federal government. As I stated in my policy paper, I want to make efforts to further objectify the selection procedure, as you have also pointed out. The coalition agreement also clearly mentions the possibility of externalising assessments. We are currently examining the various slopes, where the quality of the methods used and the instruments will be our guide. I would also like to encourage diversity among mandate holders in the recruitment process in order to promote the diversification of government top management. It is important that we also attract candidates from outside the government here. The mandate holders of the future who are already working within the government must, of course, also have the necessary guidance and support to be able to move on to a top position within the government. I investigate how mandate holders can be supported and given opportunities by facilitating voluntary mobility and developing a dynamic career path, taking into account the built-up management expertise in the event of a possible change in mandate function or after the successful termination of mandate. In order to give leadership officials of the public services the autonomy to steer their own institution in a decisive manner, the system of administrative agreements is also evaluated. From this point of view, I would like to review the evaluation system of mandate holders in order to be able to judge managers on the results, while at the same time giving them the necessary appreciation and freedom to comply with these commitments. In an effort to get more diversity in top management, we are currently examining all aspects of the mandate functions. For example, a benchmark exercise has been used to look at various elements. These include the selection process, the evaluation of the mandate holders, mobility and also the duration of the mandate periods, which you specifically requested. Selor is currently carrying out the proper procedure. This results in a list of candidates being objectively screened. No matter what we propose as a system, I will continue to strive for the continuation of objective procedures. This ensures that each mandate holder has the necessary competences and management skills to perform the function and that we do not have to think about politicising these functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u9	Madam Minister, it is a good policy to carry out an analysis and to do a lot of research before taking action. So I fully agree with Mrs Van Peel. Today Selor decides the full selection procedure and there is actually very little transparency about the composition of the judges. That needs to be checked, too. It is well known that the same jurors are often discussed. It would be useful to reform this selection procedure into a more objective procedure, but that is what you guarantee. It is important today to give a maximum running time. Some vacancies are really open for a very long time. That's a little ridiculous at some point. Something should be done about that. In my view, it is much healthier to separate politics and civil service more, so a depoliticisation. As you said, the integrity of our top people is crucial. I am sure you will work on this, because clearly there is a lot of work to be done to create a clear and clear story. I think there's a need for good leadership in our system. I can only hope that you can put that feather on your hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u10	I don't see Mrs. Vanrobaeys. Mrs Goethals, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u11	Madam Minister, in your policy paper you often refer to the social partners and also in your reply to my oral question on teleworking of 9 February 2021, you said that you would consult with the social partners on teleworking and on higher homework remuneration. There would be a review of how teleworkers could have the same homework material throughout the federal government. However, you decided at the Council of Ministers on 12 February to increase the homework allowance from EUR 20 to EUR 40 per month for a period of eight months. The trade unions are not really satisfied with this one-sided decision, but I realize that a lot of water has already flowed to the sea and that a few things have already changed. Finally, in the draft Royal Decree, we read that the increase in remuneration will apply for the period from January to 8 August 2021. This was approved at the Ministerial Council on 26 February. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What principles did you base yourself on when you unilaterally decided to increase the homework allowance for civil servants? What were the reasons why you did not consider the consultation with the social partners to be necessary or useful? What is the cost of the 40 euros per month for officials? Do you consider this increase sufficient? How many percent of civil servants are affected by this? How much budget is finally made available for this? What is the outcome of the syndical consultation on this matter in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u12	Minister, as part of telework, it was decided to temporarily double the telework allowance for federal public servants effective January 1, 2021. This is a welcome step, but public service unions note that many officers have been on telework for more than a year now and that this increase would not, in their view, cover the costs of home work. What is the status of discussions with trade union organisations in this area? Could this temporary increase in the telework premium be extended in the light of developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 February 2021, in the context of the sanitary crisis, the nuclear cabinet adopted a large number of measures to support and protect companies, workers and the most vulnerable, in order to better equip them to cope with this crisis. As an additional aid measure for employees, the nuclear cabinet has decided to compensate for the telework costs of employees and civil servants by granting a higher duty-free allowance. For the federal public office, this measure was implemented in a draft Royal Decree establishing aid for teleworking in the federal administrative public office during the covid pandemic. This measure was approved by the Council of Ministers on 26 February. I would like to make that clear, because this is separate from the discussions we are currently having on teleworking in the post-covid period. These are two separate cases, which led to misunderstandings in the context of the syndicated organisations. I won't hide that, but in the meantime, those folds are smoothed. Before the entry into force of the Royal Decree, the telework allowance for the public service was maximum EUR 20 per month. Moreover, this amount was not always fully granted. This fee was intended to cover the costs of Internet connection and communication. The new measure that we have adopted provides for an additional EUR 20 per month for the first eight months of this year as compensation for office costs, office supplies, utilities such as water and electricity, heating or maintenance. KB's draft is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. We expect that advice before 28 April, so soon. The most recent figures available on the number of teleworkers in public office date from mid-March. They indicate that 87,01 % of staff are teleworking. The core cabinet has allocated a budget of EUR 8 million to finance this new telework fee linked to the covid crisis for eight months. Like any other draft decision relating to the administrative or financial status of members of the federal public office, the draft Royal Decree was the subject of a trade union negotiation in Committee B on 10 March. This is separate from the working group on telework, which has already been started and where the syndicates suddenly found that the nuclear cabinet had taken this decision, which, of course, allocated an additional budget and was not related to the negotiations on telework for the future. It is true that I have not been able to reach an agreement with the trade unions on this project. Nevertheless, I was able to explain the rationale for this in an open and constructive discussion with the social partners. I recalled the strict budgetary framework in which we find ourselves: we received EUR 8 million, and not another penny. I have also listened carefully to the expectations of the syndicated partners in the field of telework, with all the associated problems, such as reimbursement of expenses, the conditions in which telework is carried out and the right to deconnection, which I also attach importance to. As I mentioned to the trade union organizations, work on these issues will continue in a special working group within the B Committee. The partners are back at the table, that working group continues its work. The results of this working group will be evaluated to be included in a draft Royal Decree with a view to a fundamental reform of teleworking in the federal public office. If the government decided to grant this lump sum allowance also after 31 August, because of the evolution of the health crisis and its possible impact on the telework obligation, this measure would again be the subject of trade union negotiations within Committee B. In the meantime, as I pointed out, the working group with the trade unions will continue constructively to discuss all aspects of telework in order to evaluate the structural adjustments required and to call telework into a fully-fledged form of work organisation in a kind of hybrid model of telework and office work in the long term. At present, there is no provision for a general, specific regulatory initiative to grant some kind of premium to staff who could not telework, but who had to continue to work in the workplace. That is a question that is sometimes asked. It is true that in some departments, that is their autonomous decision, a specific initiative can be taken. For example, the Minister of Justice has submitted a draft Royal Decree for administrative and budgetary control in order to grant a premium to the nursing staff of prisons. That's perfectly possible. It is not possible to grant compensation to the staff because they do not have any additional costs. These additional costs are available when you have to work at home. This cannot be granted in the same way to people who do not work telework, because it is a question of reimbursement of the costs of teleworking. However, I think it is important to stress that the work of those who have not been able to work telework and who may have run risks is highly appreciated and that their commitment and commitment ensure that the services in the federal government can continue to deliver the necessary quality. So far, the elements of the answer to the questions put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for the very clear and complete answer. I hear that the covidtelework bonus of EUR 20 extra, which runs until the end of August, will be extended if necessary and that the full telework fee will be reviewed in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u15	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which gives us a good idea of how the consultations have been conducted and how the work will continue in the working group. I am particularly interested in the fundamental reform of telework, as you mentioned. We will be back in a few months for follow-up in this working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, today about 70% of the people in the management functions of the Belgian public services are men. In your policy note, you stressed that "the advancement of women in higher positions in our public services needs to be improved". You also announced your project "to examine which inhibitory factors play a role in achieving targeted development initiatives and awareness-raising efforts". To this end, you stated that you wanted to "collaborate closely with institutions with expertise in this area, such as the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IEFH). Madam Minister, before I ask you my questions, allow me to give you our full support in your project. However, is it possible to know what progress has been made? Could a precise and detailed assessment be made of the performance of managerial functions in our public services by women? If so, can we get information on this? Have the factors hindering women's entry into decision-making positions in our public services been identified? If so, can we be informed of the specific initiatives envisaged to counter them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Senesael, with respect to gender distribution, I would like to point out that the managerial functions within the Federal Public Services (FPS) are carried out in the form of mandates. To carry out these legal missions related to the career management of federal agents, the SPF Strategy and Support (BOSA) has developed an application called "Cadastre des agents fédérales" which is directly fed by federal organizations. As of March 10, there were 143 mandated positions in CPS, Public Programming Services (PPS), Public Interest Organizations (PIOs) and Public Social Security Institutions (PSSIs), 33 of which were women and 110 men, which I think is quite inadequate in proportion. There are more than 52 per cent of women in the civil service and only a quarter of them are in leadership positions. It's totally insufficient! Increasing this number is therefore an important ambition of our policy. We have recently been able to achieve – perhaps as a first small step – that a maximum of two-thirds of the members of a selection board for a higher position are now of the same type. Indeed, if a selection board is made up of 90% men, it is empirically known that there will be more men chosen in the positions than women. That's how it is! I hope that the achievement of a better gender balance in our selection boards will have results in the future. You'll have to measure it to be sure. We will also work on the arrival of new recruits. Vacancies for leadership and management positions within the federal government must attract enough women through our targeted efforts in the employer's image strategy (employing branding). My services are putting in place specific actions to encourage women with managerial ambitions such as the Top Skills action of DG Recruitment and Development of the SPF Strategy and Support. The latter also provides a structural and varied range of training and coaching, particularly in the field of leadership aimed at stimulating all talents of any kind. I strongly believe in the principle of mentoring and coaching. Women's access to this type of function can be multifactorial. They are a subject of interest to my services and are the subject of literature analyses but also fieldwork. We are doing a great deal of research on this subject and are consulting with experts such as the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men or the Scientific Advisory Commission for Selection. Normally, the study will be launched this year to identify inhibitory factors in women's careers. In addition, we will soon organize a round table on this subject with several senior officials and with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Finally, gender diversity is an ambition of this government, which, for the first time, has a perfect gender balance. I am pleased that, among the recent appointments of the chairmen of the steering committees, several women have taken up managerial positions. We must continue on this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u18	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers that correspond to the ambitions you have expressed and posted in your policy statement. I would like to highlight some of your initiatives, for which I thank you. You have spoken of three elements which I think are very important in the development of the actions that are being carried out. First, a joint selection board is already a decisive action since the result of the reflections on this board would be different if it were made up of 90% men, for example. You said that this is a small step. I don't think so. This is already a big step for women, and this big step must be stressed. [[...]] You also point out that this helps to identify the inhibitory factors but above all to deal with them and to ensure that this leadership is present to stimulate talent. Madam Minister, with you, I make it a priority. In this legislature, blending must be a beacon that you must turn on and shine to show our determination. Thank you for continuing and amplifying this action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u19	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I don't think I've had the honour to ask you a question. I think it's the first time. I did send you a letter to congratulate you on your mandate and wish you every success, but also perseverance and wisdom. I would also like to thank you for the lovely letter you sent me back. I'm glad to be able to talk to you about a case that concerns me. Mr Sigrid Goethals mainly follows public service cases, she is also from Flemish Brabant, so she will certainly do very well. I'd like to talk to you about a technical file relating to the Defense Department. I have been a member of the Committee on Defence for many years, that's my first love, and I'm actually not a member of the Committee on Home Affairs, even though many think so. I've never been a member of that, except for a year. In the Committee on Defence, we had a whole discussion about the Minister's ambitious staff plan, the so-called POP plan, People Our Priority. She promises a great deal to the staff, to the military, both here and abroad. She says she's finally gonna set wages against the police. I have just questioned her about this, but I have not yet got any budgetary clarity about it because it will cost a great deal of money. She says she has that money, but she won't say how much. I don't think she has the money. She doesn't want to clarify things, so I'm gonna have to put another question. It is sometimes difficult to get transparency from the government, and that is frustrating. After all, we have the task of controlling the executive by asking questions and putting together dossiers. If we do not get answers, it is very faint and a Member cannot do his job. The Secretary of Defense also promised that the amount of meal cheques would increase for the military. She added that she cannot do so for the civilian personnel of the Defense Department herself, because, according to her, that authority lies with Minister De Sutter. Is there going to be an increase in the meal cheques for the DOD's civilian staff? Will you also hand out meal cheques to the civilian staff? Also for an amount of 6 euros per day? What's the target date to roll this out? Of course, these are important questions, because if you do something like this for the military, you will understand that the civilian personnel of the defence department will be wondering if there is any provision for them. What is the cost of this operation? I'd like a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u20	Mr Francken, the contribution of the public office to the POP Plan (People Our Priority) for the civilian personnel of Defence will be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 16 November 1994 on administrative and budgetary control. The existing draft text, which is in the hands of the Defense Department, will be adapted to apply to civilian personnel and will therefore be submitted to my services for administrative control. Through this administrative check, my cabinet will indirectly contribute to the award of meal cheques for the announced amount of EUR 6 for Defence staff. We therefore exercise administrative control over such decisions, including in other departments such as Defence. As regards your question on the target date of roll-out, I refer to the intention expressed by Minister Dedonder in committee, namely the second half of 2021. As far as the budgetary implications are concerned, I cannot give you an answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u21	Madam Secretary, your answer is good news for the civilian personnel of the Defense Department. So they also receive meal cheques of 6 euros a day from the second half of this year. It will be further worked out in concrete terms. I will ask you another question in writing about the cost so that you can use your services to see what it will cost. I always try to look at the budget. I sometimes have the impression that the government has found a tree with which one simply needs to shake to drop money out of it. I question very many ministers and find it unimaginable what all their plans will cost. I was a member of a government myself, and we had to turn every penny 85 times. I always got a no from Sophie Wilmès, who was then Minister of the Budget, and then I always had to try to get money through Jan Jambon at the core. That was always quite a discussion, but now all that is not a problem. We never found that money tree. You're gonna have to tell me where it is. It might as well be a money donkey. However, it is unbelievable how much money is spent by the current government, not only for the cabinets and the bestaffining but also ordinary. Apparently, there's a lot of money. You also saw, of course, that there is a negative balance of EUR 30 billion in 2021. Last year it was EUR 50 billion. Sooner or later that will be paid back. The government can also, of course, argue like Paul Magnette, namely for a reset of all debts across Europe. We shall see what that will give: a devaluation, followed by instability. We have already had such an economic and financial crisis with the banking crisis. Maybe we should try these left-wing formulas. That's always interesting and a nice social experiment. However, I doubt whether the citizens, and especially my children and grandchildren, will be better off. However, I note that money has also been found for this project, which is very good. I have to admit, I'm a little jealous. After all, I am also mayor, and there is nothing more fun than constantly getting money and being able to spend it again. I note that this is apparently not a problem right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u22	In my opinion, you were somewhat agitated by the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u23	Madam Secretary, I recently submitted a written question to your cabinet about temporary work. This was, I suspect, the first evaluation since this possibility for federal public services and companies was foreseen by then Minister Vandeput on 1 January 2019. The figures show that twelve federal government organisations made use of them in 2019, but to a very limited extent, while 80% of government organisations did not. Bpost was the only outlier to make huge use of temporary workers. Of course, the fact that other public services and companies do not yet use them is not a problem. I can imagine that in some services it is not possible to use temporary agency workers or that it is in any case difficult to work with temporary agency workers given the specific nature of the tasks. However, the fact that this possibility was provided for is a good thing. It allows public authorities and businesses to respond more easily to absenteeism or increasing workload if they deem it necessary. I do have a few questions about this. Is the KB providing the opportunity to recruit temporary workers sufficiently familiar with public services and companies? If you do not believe that this is the case, will you perhaps consider new initiatives to promote this possibility? Can you explain why most public services and companies do not use this? Do you think the cost factor is in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u24	Ms Goethals, the KB of 7 December 2018, which provides for the possibility to recruit temporary agency workers, was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 14 January 2019. Following the publication, this was immediately communicated, on 19 January 2019, in the Fedweb News newsletter intended for the federal organisations. At the infosite Fedweb, which contains all information about works for the federal government, a permanent separate section is also dedicated to this. By the way, the FOD BOSA proposed the strategic federal procurement consultation in mid-2019 to launch a public contract for the placement of a framework agreement for interim work for the federal public office organisations. As a public organisation, the public procurement law is also respected, and so the market must always be explored, and this regulation must be respected if a service provider is to be called upon to place interim staff. In 2019, 35 organisations had already expressed an interest in using such a framework agreement. At the beginning of this year, seven organisations from the scientific institutions came forward after an additional round of information requested by BELSPO. Very recently, on 9 March, BOSA's Career Centre gave a presentation on the possibility for the network of HR managers of the institutions of public utility. These organisations and all the organisations that had already endorsed a Memorandum of Understanding had the time until 8 April 2021 to finally join the Framework Agreement. All these demarches by the FOD BOSA make us feel that the possibility of using interim work is well known to most public services. However, the employment of temporary agency workers is subject to strict conditions. Moreover, when employing temporary agency workers under these strict conditions of the Royal Decree, an organisation must negotiate with the syndicated delegation in advance on the employment of each temporary agency worker in the event of a temporary increase in work or for certain forms of exceptional work. In any case, there is an information obligation. Temporary work also involves additional costs. Think of Mr. Francken's tree. The head of the service, responsible for the operational appropriations of the service, must consider the question of opportunity. We are in a period of budgetary constraints. It is therefore not obvious for organisations to bear these additional costs. That's what's being thought of. In the first instance, alternatives will be considered within the federal public office, such as the use of the Special Federal Forces and Talent Exchange. These forms of temporary mobility make it possible for federal organisations to exchange staff without pressure on their operating budget. That's a very elegant instrument. The fact that a large number of organisations have expressed an interest in a framework agreement for interim work means that they have an effective will to respond more easily to absenteeism or increasing workload. The FOD BOSA should receive the global information on temporary agency workers from the various federal administrations each year. A report will then be drawn up for the relevant ministers. So we are following this evolution every year and we will be able to see whether more or less use will be made of it in the following years. I hope you have received sufficient answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u25	This answer was more than enough, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u26	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u27	Mr President, I would like to refer to my written question No. 55016527C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Willaert, thank you for your questions on duty exemption, home work and child care. Since my arrival in October 2020, I have, of course, closely monitored the evolutions around the corona virus on the workplace and the impact on the functioning of the federal government. Work organisation and holiday planning for 2021 are an important focus. I have therefore asked all leading officials and all staff to build up the necessary rest in these busy times for many staff members. Employees are often asked to make additional efforts in the workplace and to show the necessary flexibility, and they often have to find creative solutions for the care of their children, whether or not combined with frequent telework. Mrs Willaert, in reply to your question, I can tell you that a circular letter was already sent on 28 October 2020 containing guidelines for the staff of the federal administrative public office on the organisation of work and the care of children in the event of temporary closure of schools, daycare centres and centres for the care of children with disabilities. In that letter I say very clearly that the staff member can be exempted from duty for periods when care for his child cannot be combined with his work and there is no alternative care provided by the closed institution, i.e. the school, the childcare centre or the centre for the care of children with disabilities. This applies to all federal officials, whether statutory or contractual. In the same letter, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that staff also have the possibility of making use of some kind of leave scheme, such as annual leave or leave for compelling reasons of family interest, or not yet taken up catch-up or leave. After all, it is important to deconnect occasionally and that is best possible in such leave systems. Recently it was indeed decided to extend the Easter holiday, just like the autumn holiday in 2020, with an extra free week. Once again, employees had to find a solution to combine all kinds of professional obligations with the care of children. They could also fall back on the scheme developed in the circular letter of 28 October 2020, which was already used during the extra days off after the autumn holidays in 2020 and when closing schools, daycare centres and childcare initiatives for children with disabilities. Leading officials are asked to be vigilant for very specific questions from the staff. This certainly applies to employees who have made arrangements under co-parenting arrangements with the other parent of their child or children. During the Easter vacation, which is now behind us, not all youth initiatives such as Easter vacations or camps could work at full power. It was therefore necessary to ask for the necessary creativity from all employees to ensure continuity of services but also to organise the home care of children. It has therefore been asked to inform employees about the inclusion modalities of the various leave systems: annual leave, catch-up leave, career break for parental leave and, in particular, the possibility to include it in weeks, and leave for compelling reasons. Finally, I promise to monitor all new developments closely and to take the necessary measures as soon as this is necessary. Unfortunately, at the moment, we cannot assess how the functioning of the federal government can still be affected by this health crisis, but we remain vigilant. I hope that your questions have been answered, Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. My question is indeed no longer so topical, because the 'expanded' Easter holiday is over. Of course, there is the circular which does indeed provide opportunities, either by including leave schemes, or by catching up or by a service exemption. I also understand that the continuity of services must be guaranteed, and that this requires a great deal of creativity and commitment from the staff of the federal administrations, for which I would like to thank them. My question, however, is about more equality between civil servants, employees and the self-employed. For example, there was a call from Child & Family that during the week before the Easter holiday and also during the Easter holiday itself, babies, toddlers and preschoolers should not be sent to crèches or kindergartens, even though they were open, just to prevent the spread of the virus. For workers, this is covered by temporary unemployment, for self-employed workers with a right to bridge, but what about civil servants? I know a number of those who have taken leave, although they have to count their days, because when they have children, leave is usually fixed from the beginning of the year. Does the circular also apply in that case? Could this possibly be generalised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with Mr Vanrobaeys' reply. It is good that we are creative and that we look at what is possible. Let me give another example, that of a local government that asked people to take their leave days at the end of the year, in December, because it was not intended to transfer them to the following year. I believe that there is reason for fairness and that everyone needs to put some water in to get through this difficult period. My main concern is that there would not be enough vigilance. Parents, and especially parents of small children, are sitting on their gums. Sometimes I think that the people who do not have small children during this period live in the illusion that one can work at home with a toddler, a baby or a toddler in the home. I'm telling you, you can't do that. We must be very careful. Parents with small children can stretch a bit, but that can't be endless. I hope, therefore, that there will be a great deal of understanding in the work of the federal administration, that people will continue to be creative about working hours and paying attention to officials who state that they are no longer working. I am confident that the necessary vigilance has been shown and will continue to be shown in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u31	Mr President, Minister, some time ago I asked you for figures on the start-up contracts that young people under 26 can enter into in order to get to work in the federal administrations in order to gain experience there. This is a fixed-term contract, which may be extended, if necessary, until the worker reaches the age of 26 years. I have received signals that there are problems with the flow of young people with a runway contract to a contractual or statutory position in the public administration. In particular, young people with disabilities, who according to the service were doing a good job, were apparently not able to pass on to an ordinary job in the administration after the end of their runway contract. Your answer to my previous questions shows that your administration does not have the data to refute or confirm this thesis, because the data is not recorded. No distinction is made between runway contracts and other contracts. As a result, there are no figures on the degree of transfer to other functions in the government. However, in order to be able to implement an effective policy, it is very important that policy is regularly evaluated and adjusted. We have apparently not registered those figures in the past, but do you agree with me that we should set up a registration system, together with the federal administrations, so that the data will be available from now on? These data are important in order to be able to conduct a good policy based on inclusion and in particular on people with disabilities. In this way, we will be able to assess in the future how many young people with disabilities have started a runway contract, how many have started another contract, how many young people with or without disabilities can subsequently pass on to the Selor tests, how many can then turn to the administration under contract or statutory law, and how many young people who work at the FPS with a runway contract flow to a post in the government administration. These are examples of things we would know if we registered them. I am very surprised that we have not or have not recorded this correctly. If one is working on an inclusive society, one must know it. You also know that we recently amended the Constitution in March 2021 and that people with disabilities are entitled to an inclusive approach. We need to do this ourselves now and make sure that we know something. After we have the figures, we can at least check whether something is going wrong. Is there something wrong with the Selor tests or are people just not eligible? What can we do about it? However, this can only be done on the basis of figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your questions. I agree with you 100%, but I will, of course, give you more detailed answers. In reply to your written question, I indeed indicated that at the moment the administration only has general information on young workers and, on the other hand, disabled workers within the federal government. It is absolutely my intention to improve data collection and processing on both fronts. Firstly, as regards young workers, there is currently no central distinction between start-up contracts, the famous Rosetta contracts, which fall within the individual responsibility of each service or, on the other hand, other fixed-term or indefinite-term contracts. I can tell you that in the coming years it is my intention to do more and more evidence-informed or evidence-based policy making. Indeed, figures are needed to make the right decisions. Meanwhile, a project has been launched on the FOD BOSa around HR data, to map and rewrite the data sources and flows for, among other things, a better input to policy. However, even when optimizing the selections, we will have to keep the data stream in mind, so that data is available and exploitable to the maximum extent possible. This should enable us to respond better to questions such as your question in the coming years and thus better evaluate and adjust our policies where necessary. Secondly, your question is specifically about young people and people with disabilities. That is why I would like to inform you that the Directorate-General for Recruitment and Development, Selor, the FOD BOSa and the Guidance Committee for the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities in the Federal Public Service or BCAPH are examining the possibility of linking data from the data base of the Crossroads Bank Social Security with personnel data from the Federal Public Service. You will understand that this is a delicate exercise. In any event, however, it is intended that this link will allow an automatic and anonymous census of disabled workers working for the federal government. At present, your questions concerning Rosetta contracts for young people with disabilities can only be answered using proxy data, such as age, asking for reasonable adjustments in the selection process or eligibility for priority when recruiting or applying for a job-post adjustment. In this way we can indirectly suspect that this is about people with disabilities. Today there are 5,500 applicants who have indicated in their CV that they want to make reasonable adjustments to their tests. Of them, 287 are under the age of 26. Of those 287, 30 are now employed by the federal government. Those are numbers we're getting. I fully agree with you that this is quite inadequate information to conduct policy. Hopefully we will soon have more detailed and better figures because the 3% target is far from being seen. That is one of our ambitions in this reign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic439x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you very much for agreeing to my proposal to proceed with proper registration. Targets that we impose on ourselves, in this case the 3%, we are not achieving at all. We're at 1.2%. These are 3% people with recognised disabilities. Hopefully this will not go too far to include anyone who has another disability or a disability in order to obtain these figures. Of course, that is not the intention. However, we really need to work on the employment of people with disabilities in our workplace, all the more so because we have an exemplary role to play. We are the country's largest employer. We must also set a good example to the private sector if we expect the same from them. So let's register that effectively. It is also no problem to see through crossroads bank data and other, with the necessary regulation on privacy, whether we have already counted some of the people, which perhaps had to be counted. Even if those people are counted, I'm not afraid we're gonna get that 3%. There is enough work to take steps forward in this.
