ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u1	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to apologize for a problem with the camera. You do not see me appearing on the screen and I hope this will be resolved soon. Minister, we will undoubtedly all agree that aggression against guards is unacceptable and must be dealt with very strictly. In recent weeks, reports of guards being attacked by inmates have regularly appeared. On Saturday 4 September, for example, two guards were attacked by a twenty-eight-year-old inmate in Turnhout's prison. They had to be taken to hospital and were disabled for a few days. I hope that they are in full order and in good health at the moment. According to some sources, the aforementioned incident is not a surprise. I quote: "There are a large number of difficult prisoners in Turnhout's prison. Similar cases require a lot of attention, are physically aggressive and regularly expressing threats to staff. Not only the shortage of staff, but also the minimum number of posts in the prison in Turnhout is a problem." That's what a member of the union said. Minister, Turnhout is certainly not an isolated case. From the prison of Merksplas, for example, there are similar signals. There have also been several incidents there this year. In February, for example, five guards were wounded after an attack by an inmate with severe mental problems. A few days later there was verbal aggression and was thrown with chairs. According to a prison guard at Merksplas, the staff is confronted weekly with physical aggression and almost daily with verbal aggression. The fact that prisoners are allowed to receive people again or to receive training outside prison would lead to more drugs being smuggled into prison, resulting in more aggression. In addition, there is regular understaffing of staff in several prisons. In Merksplas, on September 4, there was a shortage of no less than 28 people. So you can also understand that the workload for the guards is becoming unacceptable. Another problem that has been identified is that too many interned people are staying in prisons, which in practice leads to major problems. According to the director of Merksplas prison, for example, a large number of cases of aggression can be explained by the fact that as many as fifty percent of the prisoners were interned. Violence against guards has been a problem for years. Apparently, the current approach has little or no result. What will you do and change to make sure that the violence against guards finally stops? Is any form of violence committed against a guard prosecuted? If this were not the case, will you make this a priority? Although Belgium has already been convicted several times by the European Court, according to the director of Merksplas prison, half of the prison population would still be interned. Can you confirm this? What are you going to do to ensure that these interns can be transferred to the forensic psychiatric centers? When will the new announced centres be able to be employed and the problem will then be fully resolved? Is there a policy on drugs in prison? If you know that the disappearance of the corona measures means that more drugs are being brought into prison, can you confirm that controls have increased exponentially? What checks are being carried out and are they being carried out systematically? Please explain. The distressing shortage of staff among the guards in the various prisons remains a major problem. What about the recruitment plans? How will you make the status of the guard's profession more attractive, and what action have you taken to achieve this? In your policy statement last year, you promised 13 additional staff for Merksplas, how many have already been filled in net, so after deduction of any persons who have stopped or failed? On Saturday 4 September last, a serious incident took place in Turnhout prison with a prisoner in which three guards were wounded. When one of the guards asked to empty his trash can, the prisoner reacted physically aggressively. Some people tried to overpower him, but he kept resisting. Result: three guards were injured and are disabled for a few days. This prisoner wasn't ready for his test piece. According to the media, he recently stabbed a co-convict in Root's prison who was wounded in the process. After this incident, he was transferred from Root to the prison in Turnhout. I hope these three guards are doing well again. Can you explain the state of health of the guards? Will guards receive extra guidance after facts of aggression? If so, which one? Are the reports that this prisoner has also recently committed serious acts of aggression against a fellow prisoner in Root's prison? Can you explain this further? This prisoner was transferred from Root's prison to Turnhout's prison. Did he get a stricter regime on this? After his transfer, was he placed in a security cell? A disciplinary procedure was initiated against the prisoner. What are the results of this? Madam President, for my questions on the reopening of the High Security Division in Bruges (No. 55020405 (C) I refer to my written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u2	Mrs Dillen, I will first answer your question about the aggression in Turnhout prison. Unfortunately, two of the three agents involved were disabled for six days. The third staff member was able to return to work after a doctor's consultation. In addition to the attention paid to the victims, such an incident has a major impact on daily life in prison. After an incident and the handling of the associated operational tasks, daily life in prison resumes. It is therefore very important that the staff receive adequate support. On 26 July 2021, a specific instruction was sent to all prisons. As far as your second question is concerned, all the staff involved in the incident were taken in by the internal reception team. These are the people who have received peer-review training. To your third question, I can answer that the prisoner in question was transferred from Root to Turnhout after he had seriously injured a fellow cellmate there with scarce signs. He was placed under arrest warrant by the investigating judge for attempted murder. As for your fourth question, for the facts in Root, the disciplinary detention cell was carried out in Turnhout's prison. A special security measure was then imposed, given the extraordinary aggression and unpredictable behaviour of the prisoner. A disciplinary procedure was also carried out for the facts in Turnhout, which were the subject of your fifth question. The facts were also communicated to the public prosecutor on the basis of Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Two of your other questions, about violence against guards and about the reopening of the High Security Department in Bruges, I answer together. Of course, I regret every case of aggression and even more when people are injured. However, it is important to interpret the figures correctly. From 14 March 2020 to 4 May 2021, i.e. over a period of 13 months, there were 117 cases of aggression, of which 32 cases were against staff. A prison population of 10,000 prisoners in 35 prisons is thus indeed a matter of exceptions in the system. We also note that in many cases this is about aggression of interned people who were not already among the target groups of the Department of Individual Special Security (AIBV). They need other, more specialised, care and security. In addition to DGEP's existing conflict and aggression policy, I have planned an investment of EUR 240,000 this year to add new elements to this policy in response to the gaps and needs. For this purpose, a contract has been issued which is addressed in substance to both prisoners and staff. The mission consists of two parts: aggression control for prisoners and interventions at institutional level, and this to make the transition to a nonviolent organizational culture. Both components reinforce each other and ensure the further development of a global and coherent policy of aggression in the establishment. The control of aggression for prisoners will teach them methods and techniques to handle tension and aggression, which stimulates reintegration, thereby contributing to the development of meaningful detention, and consequently to the reduction of the risk of recurrence. Interventions at institutional level are addressed to various categories of staff and teams working in the establishment and will improve the introduction of a non-violent organisational culture to enable conflict management at structural level. This assignment will start in November of this year in eight establishments spread across the country. In a subsequent phase, the assignment will then continue in all other establishments next year, taking into account the experience gained and the results in the first eight prisons. On your second question, in connection with violence against guards: serious aggression, both physically and verbally, is transferred to the court on the basis of Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The facts of serious physical violence are followed up in principle. Let me now turn to your question 2 concerning High Security. Each file shall be examined individually, taking into account the inmate's profile. The appropriate measures shall be taken on the basis of this analysis. Disciplinary or safety measures may be taken, whether or not accompanied by a transfer to another establishment. A removal to another facility is certainly not an automatism. Attention will also be paid to appropriate follow-up through case discussions, multidisciplinary follow-up, guidance pathways and involvement in aggression programmes. If these incidents are part of a personality problem with the inmate, medical follow-up and framing by the care equipes shall also be provided. Then I come to question 3, regarding High Security. The existence of an AIBV is not blissful, but only one element in an integral conflict and aggression management. It must not become a place where prisoners who cause nuisance are dumped, but work must be done in substance so that the prisoner can be stabilised with the prospect of a return to the normal prison regime. Many lessons were learned from the experience of the AIBV in Bruges and we will certainly take this into account. In order to reopen the AIBV in Bruges, it is not enough to make a number of adjustments or investments. The concept needs to be critically evaluated as a whole, because the existence of an AIBV also raises a number of questions. A working group has looked into this matter. The result of this exercise is taken into account in the development of a renewed concept in the prison of Haren, which, as you know, opens next year. In the beginning, as far as I am concerned, there will certainly have to be an eye for continuous training, sufficient intervisions for the team, sufficient attention to the combination of care and monitoring, guidance of problems and more attention to flow with possibly an intermediate department. It's true that Merksplas has just over 154 interned residents. There are people who should be able to flow to a Forensic Psychiatric Centre (FPC) or who have returned to prison on the basis of a decision of the Chamber for the Protection of Society. Merksplas is also a placement site as the Department of Protection Society (ABM). At the opening of FPC Aalst, scheduled for 2027, 120 longstay patients will generally be able to transfer to this facility. These people will come from the ABM of Merksplas and Turnhout and the already existing FPCs in Ghent and Antwerp. The places released in these latter institutions will be filled by interned people who are currently still in EPI, i.e. the prison. With the 125 million, I have provided a framework extension for the care staff in Merksplas, in order to provide quality care, namely the same standard of care as the regular mental health care with hospital bed. There have already been recruitments, but in the meantime people have already left the framework. We are currently looking for a number of specific profiles, such as psychologists and ergotherapists. A penitentiary drug policy has been written down in the guidelines, closed by the principles of several letters of conversion and a 2009 COL. In 2021, these principles remain in place and innovations have been introduced, referring to drug-free departments and drug programmes in different establishments. This drug policy is based on drug policy extra muros and scientific evidence. In addition, there are three pilot projects initiated by the FPS Public Health with the aim of developing drug relief in prisons. There are no figures that show that there is a remarkable increase in drugs introduced after the corona measures. The Cooperation Agreement between the Directorate-General for EPI and the Federal Police provides for the structural deployment of drug dogs in prisons. The structural use of dogs is part of a global drug policy. These preventive and repressive interventions aim to reduce drug smuggling and the drug market within the prisons. The dog support corresponds to two full-time equivalents, being a capacity of two times 1,520 working hours, i.e. a total of 3,040 working hours per year. This capacity comes from the pool of the effectively certified dog counselors of the federal police. The sanitary measures reduced the controls in 2020, but the checks were fully resumed since 2021. As for your final question, question 5, in order to highlight the profession of penitentiary staff, the next few months will continue to focus on employee branding, including specifically on penitentiary security assistants. This school year has also started the Defence and Security programme, which prepares young people from the fifth grade for security professions in the security sector, the fire department, the defence, the police and also the prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u3	Thank you for this very detailed answer. A few brief comments: you are right to say that incidents of aggression have a major impact on life in prison. However, this is not just about physical aggression. Also verbal aggression can have a heavy psychological impact. You have listed a number of figures relating to the number of cases of aggression you say, unless I have misunderstood that it concerns a very limited number of cases. This appears to be virtually inconsistent with statements made by representatives of the police officers' trade unions in the media. They explicitly say that they as staff are confronted with physical aggression every week and almost daily with verbal aggression. Probably not always a report is made, which distorts the numbers somewhat. As far as the High Security Division in Bruges is concerned, I have never argued in favour of "dumping" the prisoners in any form of aggression, as you said. It should certainly not be the case, but for heavy forms of aggression, such a department could possibly lead to a solution. With regard to the drug dogs used in prisons, I would have liked to have been given some figures first. I have heard that, if I am wrong, there is little use of it. Aggression in prisons has been a problem for years. However, we must note that the current approach has little or no results. I would argue that any form of violence, and certainly physical violence, should be prosecuted. Madam President, I have tabled a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas violence against guards is absolutely unacceptable and needs to be tackled strictly; - whereas in addition, the undermanned guards face daily verbal aggression and weekly physical aggression; - whereas this is linked to the great shortage of prison guards, a major problem which has been dragging on for years and which has not been solved, both physically and mentally makes the situation untenable for the guards; - whereas notwithstanding the above, it should also be noted that in some prisons half of the prison population is still interned, for which Belgium has already been condemned several times by the European Court of Human Rights; - whereas the relaxation of the corona measures appears to lead to more drugs being introduced into prisons, which does not, of course, contribute to the problems of aggression for the guards; asks the government - immediately take the necessary measures to make up for delays in the recruitment of guards and to create a more attractive statute for the guards; - take the necessary measures to prevent and combat violence against guards; - order the prosecutors to prosecute any form of violence against guards without exception; - to take initiatives to punish any form of violence against guards more strictly and firmly; - to ensure immediately that all interns who are in prison can be admitted to forensic psychiatric centres; - to develop a well thought-out and functioning plan which not only keeps drugs out of prison but also systematically controls drugs thoroughly within prisons, as well as instructing prosecutors to investigate drug law infringements by severely prosecuting inmates within prisons." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, Whereas violence against prison guards is totally unacceptable and must be severely punished; Whereas understaffed guards are also confronted daily with verbal assaults and every week with physical assaults; Whereas this situation and the acute shortage of prison guards, which has persisted for years without a solution, make the situation untenable for the guards, both physically and psychologically; Whereas, notwithstanding the above, it should also be noted that in some prisons, half of the prison population is still made up of interned persons, a situation which Belgium has already been condemned on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights; Whereas the relaxation of measures to combat coronavirus apparently results in more drugs entering prisons, which obviously does not solve the problem of attacks on guards; asks the government - to take immediate steps to eliminate the delay in the recruitment of prison guards and, in parallel, to tackle the establishment of a more attractive status for prison guards; - to take the necessary measures to prevent and combat violence against prison guards; - instruct prosecutors to prosecute all forms of violence against guards, without exception; - to take initiatives to punish more severely and resolutely all forms of violence against guards; - to ensure immediately that all interned persons in prison can be transferred to legal psychiatry centres; - to develop a thoughtful and effective plan to prevent the entry of drugs into prisons but also to systematically monitor the presence of drugs in prisons and to instruct prosecutors to prosecute severely drug offences committed by prisoners inside prisons." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u5	Madam President, Minister, last June my colleague from Laveleye asked you about parental alienation syndrome following the recent creation of an international day of parental alienation. This concept is largely invalidated by scientific research and strongly criticized by civil society and actors on the ground, but also by GREVIO, which recommends, in its first report for Belgium, to highlight the lack of a scientific basis for parental alienation syndrome. My colleague also asked you about the content of a training course planned this autumn on the subject and stressed, in particular, the need for a gender-based approach, knowing that this concept is often used by the aggressor parent or certain legal actors to delegitimize the speech of the protective parent, most of whom are women, as well as that of the children, in a context of separation. On 9 and 10 September, a symposium of the Parent Alienation Study Group was organised in Brussels under your high patronage and in collaboration with the Judicial Training Institute (IFJ). Women's associations, as well as the Walloon Region and French Community administrations, were concerned about the organisation of the event and the public and political support it received. Indeed, according to their analysis of the programme of these days, all invited speakers promote the use of the concept of parental alienation, which is highly problematic. Minister, is this colloquium the training you referred to in your answer to my colleague? How do you reconcile your support, and that of the IFJ, for this conference with our international commitments and especially the Istanbul Convention? Do you not think that today's urgency is to allow judicial actors as a whole to benefit from a critical and comprehensive approach to the use of this concept and its consequences, especially for women? In your speech, you mentioned a pilot project to improve the divorce procedure. Can you tell more about this pilot project, its implementation and the expected results?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject on a number of occasions, particularly during the Committees of 2 June and 30 June in response to the questions raised by Mrs de Laveleye and Mrs Rohonyi. This training was supported by the Judicial Training Institute and, when asked about the issue, the Scientific Committee estimated the following. It is clear that the purpose of this conference is not at all to polarize. The conference is not contradictory to GREVIO's recommendations. The so-called parental alienation syndrome is indeed a highly contested notion but, given the detailed information on the programme provided by the organizers, is not the subject of the conference. It is important not to ideologist the problem of the risk of loss of relationships between parents and children, since these are very complex situations. Consequently, it is not appropriate to exclude all forms of debate a priori, in addition to sensitive issues. For magistrates, it is essential to understand the mechanisms that could cause a loss of ties between parents and children. It would be a pity to want to prohibit the taking up of registration fees for this conference, since there are indeed situations in which children are instrumentalized to cause a loss of connection between a parent and a child. I was able to personally realize that this conference was not intended to promote the disputed concept of parental alienation syndrome, but rather to prevent ruptures of ties after parental separation outside situations of domestic violence. Aware that this is a sensitive subject, I wanted to participate in this conference in order to develop certain things. First of all, I stressed that our main objective must always be the safety and well-being of the children concerned. That is why we must protect them from domestic violence, whether physical or psychological. The protection of family ties does not take precedence over the protection of children against an abusive or violent parent. This must never be minimized or denied. Domestic violence requires appropriate measures, which must be taken into account. It is only in the absence of violence that the ties between children and parents can be renewed and maintained. I then recalled GREVIO's recommendations, which call into question parental alienation syndrome. As I have already said, in my view the phenomenon of parental alienation must be distinguished from the concept of parental alienation syndrome (psychological syndrome in the head of a child), which is rightly controversial and contested and on which there is little research to date. On the other hand, it must be noted that some children are separated from one of their parents. This separation can affect their well-being and development. The aim of this conference was to find solutions to protect these family ties and to maintain a positive parenting relationship between separated parents. Mrs Hugon, magistrates have few analytical keys to identify the causes and consequences of situations where children are instrumentalized and to take into account the reasons that lead a child to refuse a relationship with a parent. This is precisely where this conference is of great interest, in order to begin a reflection on this point. A pilot project, currently being carried out at the Dinant Family Court, which I would like to extend to the whole country, is being accompanied by procedural changes aimed at changing attitudes in child custody conflicts. First, parents should be more aware of the implications of legal proceedings and the importance of protecting the interests of the child after divorce or separation. In many cases, parents need support to move from being partners in life to being partners in the education of their children. To that end, I am thinking of information sessions for parents who are prosecuting child care. These should allow parents to reflect on the issues involved in the process of moving towards an agreement or to consider alternative means of settlement such as family mediation. In some particularly conflicting cases, however, judicial proceedings are the only way to resolve disputes. In such cases, it must serve its purpose, but in this phase a change of mentality can be achieved by taking a number of measures. Procedures can be objected to by using a simplified request form that discourages the type of charge that typically inflates such disputes. The magistrates obviously have a responsibility in these proceedings. It is important that they put interim measures in place to calm the conflict and ensure the relationship between the child and his or her parents. They must empower the parties to make commitments to each other and to respect them throughout the proceedings, step by step with frequent hearings to verify progress. Judges rely on teams of interdisciplinary experts and extrajudicial actors who are indispensable for the collection of the objective information necessary to enable the judge to make an informed decision. A safe space must be provided to children in which they are supported, listened to and where they can express their needs. Throughout this process, alternative methods of conflict resolution can be proposed, but mediation must never be imposed. Particular attention must be paid to the equality and security of both sides in order to be sufficiently confident and secure to be able to defend themselves. In conclusion, it seems to me essential to give the child a central place in the dispute to which he is subject. In this regard, a reflection will take place in December with the academic community to determine how best to involve the child in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u7	Minister, I thank you for your detailed and appropriate response, given the issue of protecting children, protecting their best interests and ensuring that they are heard in court proceedings that concern them first and foremost. However, I should like to clarify some points. If we wanted to question you on this issue, it is because we do not deny the fundamental role that the Judicial Training Institute plays today for judicial decisions that must be more and more quality and objective as well. Nor do we deny cases of manipulation or instrumentalization of children by one of their parents. The problem we wanted to raise is that the concept of parental alienation goes much further and that it is also instrumentalized by parents who are violent in order, precisely, to question the word either of the partner or of the child and thus ultimately escape the prosecution to which they would eventually be subject. This is why our judges do not have to use this concept, without a scientific basis, as GREVIO explained very well in its report, but also the Unit for the Elimination of Violence against Women of the Ministry of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation or the Centre for Support and Combating Violence between Partners of the Wallonia Public Service. In this regard, you mentioned the fact that the Scientific Committee of the Judicial Training Institute was going to deal with this issue at its meeting on 5 July. I did not get an answer to the decision that eventually emerged from it. For the rest, I am happy to hear that the pilot project that has been put in place with regard to parental awareness will be able to be developed. It is essential that parents who engage in legal proceedings, either because they want to do so or because they have no choice, are really aware of the particular ins and outs for their children and the impact that this could have on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u8	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers, which are as always very detailed. I would like to return to some aspects of your answer. I will not repeat certain points made by my colleague, Mrs Rohonyi, with which I agree. However, I confess that I remain concerned about parental alienation, which is much broader than the instrumentalization of a parent. Indeed, it is not simply a matter of an instrumentalization by a parent. The lack of a genré look arouses my concern. I am concerned that when the Judicial Training Institute was asked about the specific issue of the use of this concept, which is often used against women, it replied that parental alienation was not a gender problem because the parents who were victims could be fathers or mothers indifferent. Theoretically, no doubt, but this assertion runs counter to all the findings on the ground which show us that the use of this concept is in general opposed to women. Women's rights associations see how the use and application of this concept of parental alienation harms women and children by discrediting their words. I have received a lot of testimony in this regard. These are not isolated testimonies. There are groups of mothers who form themselves to combat this state of affairs. As my colleague has pointed out, this can have consequences that go as far as the loss of custody by the protective parent for the benefit of the parent who is accused of violence or incest. I therefore remain quite concerned about this concept. Even if I hear that you're making a difference between "parental alienation syndrome" and "parental alienation", I'm not sure that, in the way it's applied, the difference is actually reflected. I know that other countries strongly advise the judiciary not to use this concept. However, as far as I am concerned, it is increasingly being used here, which we are concerned. I would therefore like to have a little more information on the implications of using this concept. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for the information you provided on the pilot project, which I would like to know about the results of. Indeed, of course, we share your willingness to focus on the well-being of children and their participation in the procedures that affect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, it will not surprise you that I cannot answer your questions in full. The work of our intelligence services often provides classified documents whose content I cannot and cannot disclose here. This is not an opportunity assessment of myself, by the way, but a legal obligation. You refer to the book by Mr Dallemagne and Mr Lamfalussy. Of course, this creates exciting reading, but I can't play a fact checker for you. I cannot therefore comment on the claim that the person in question was an informant. The security of the State can neither confirm nor deny this. Without going into the specific case, I can say that the security of the State has already carried out debriefings abroad, including in a penitentiary environment. These debriefings have the sole purpose of gathering information that can help to gain a better view of the threats. The relevant information is also always shared with the competent Belgian partners. Your final question as to whether the attack could be avoided is probably the most intriguing one. The slope that Oussama Atar was the brains behind the attacks in Paris and Brussels is not the only slope. I hope, along with you, that the complete truth will come out soon, but that is far from certain. I have already said in Parliament that Hindsight bias might avoid any attack. The parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 made a number of recommendations, in particular to further streamline the exchange of information. Since then, the services have taken significant steps forward in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u10	Of course, Minister, I hope with you that the whole truth will come out, but like you, I have serious doubts about this. I understand that you cannot act in extenso, that you are bound by a number of legal obligations and that you should remain silent on a number of matters. However, it is very strange that there can be a rather spectacular book in which Oussama Atar's life is explained in detail and from which it should be shown that I remain cautious, because I too have no certainty that he has been co-responsible for the radicalisation of his cousins, the brothers El Bakraoui. I understand that you cannot answer, but I hope you will understand that I am trying to get some more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u11	Madam President, Minister, over the past few weeks, many unionists, including a police officer, have been fined co-vid at home. What do we do to deserve this? They simply took part in a rally in December 2020, during the judgement of seventeen of their comrades, to defend trade union freedoms and the right to strike in particular. These workers gathered outside, wearing the mask and respecting social distancing. They were not even checked by the police on the spot since the action was carried out in compliance with the barrier gestures. In addition, no clusters were reported after that day. How is it that action in favour of a democratic and fundamental right, well organised and taking into account the constraints imposed by the health situation, is sanctioned in this way? Do you not see this as an infringement of the right to strike and democracy? How is it that this democratic right is being attacked by using the pandemic as a pretext when at the same time workers are entangled in public transport or factories to continue working? The trade unionists concerned decided not to allow themselves and not to accept this fine. Masked but not gagged! That is their slogan and we adhere to it with the PTB. It is unacceptable that our democratic rights should be reduced in the name of the fight against the pandemic, whereas when it comes to economic interests, we do not observe the same severity on the part of the government. We therefore fully support these trade unionists. Minister, what is your position on this matter? Are you going to sue these workers in court for non-payment of these fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u12	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. Honestly, I don't know which folder(s) you're referring to. I have not received any information from the prosecutor's office or headquarters on this matter. However, even if I had such information, the prosecution of individual cases does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Justice and the police operate within a strict constitutional and legal framework which provides, inter alia, that all Belgians are equal before the law, but also that the judiciary is independent in individual cases. Class justice for some people is not part of it. Dear colleague, I am not an appeal body.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, admit that the situation is ironic. People who demonstrate to defend the right to protest are punished. It is rather special in a so-called democratic country! You say that there is no pass-right, but an independence of the procedure. But you're the one who sets the criminal policy with the attorneys general. It is you who fix the amount of the transactions and the conditions under which they are fixed with the Attorneys General. Therefore, to say systematically that the decision does not depend on you, while you print the political directive and that it is your political directives that are followed, is what leads me to question you. However, you do not take the responsibility of adopting a clear position when you do so in practice by defining political directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u14	Madam President, Minister De Morgen said a few days ago that the Federal Prosecutor's Office will investigate at least ten people who could have committed war crimes under Bashar al-Assad's regime. These war crimes, or in any case these dubious behaviors, have reportedly been highlighted by information obtained by the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons. Today, however, justice says it lacks resources and investigators. The Prosecutor's Office has confirmed that there are 10 to 15 cases opened but that it does not currently have the means to carry out these investigations. An investigating judge was appointed this year in one of the cases. On cases of serious violations of international humanitarian law, it would therefore appear that there are a small number of investigators assigned to this type of investigation. Minister, do you confirm the lack of investigators assigned to cases of violations of international law? What steps have you taken in this regard since you took office? What needs currently exist within the federal prosecutor's office to deal with such cases at best and not to give a sense of impunity, which, I am convinced, is far from your option?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, historically, our country has often played a pioneering role in international humanitarian law, a role well interpreted by the Federal Prosecutor's Office that reflects the values that our country stands for on the international stage. The Public Prosecutor's Office has informed me of the lack of investigators assigned to cases involving serious violations of international humanitarian law – which is also the exclusive competence of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. In view of the worsening situation, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office held a meeting in early April 2021 with the Directorate of the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels, the latter being historically in charge of the vast majority of investigations into serious violations of international humanitarian law, in view of the expertise accumulated in the investigation of the genocide of the Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994. In order to remedy the most urgent problems, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office issued an in-house instruction last July to the judges of the section dealing with international humanitarian law cases that the duties to be performed in the new Dutch-speaking cases falling within the above-mentioned criteria should henceforth be directed to the judicial police of the suspect's place of residence. In order to be comprehensive, I would point out that for the crimes of international humanitarian law committed by Belgian Foreign Terrorism Fighters, it had already been agreed in advance that the duties of investigation would be carried out by the investigators already in charge of the cases relating to terrorist offences committed by the persons concerned. It is important that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Judicial Police continue to work together to deal with this type of specific investigation so that our country will certainly abide by its international commitments, but also be at the forefront of the fight against impunity and the fight against all forms of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. In order to compensate for the effects of the downsizing of the federal police for years, you know that since the end of last year, more than 600 positions have been opened for the Federal Judicial Police, mainly for specialized functions. Unfortunately, more than half of those vacancies remained unanswered. The situation is worrying. The reasons are diverse. Appropriate awareness campaigns are needed. The general states of the police have been initiated by my colleague from the interior but this will not bring a solution in the short term. Together with the Minister of the Interior, we are looking at what we can do more in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u16	Minister, thank you for once again demonstrating your willingness not to leave any unpunished crime, especially when it comes to crimes and serious violations of international law. As you said, we must be exemplary and pursue this proactive policy at the Belgian level. They are persons present in our territory who have come in the framework of asylum procedures. We must therefore be particularly vigilant with regard to the behaviour that the CGRA has demonstrated. On the other hand, it is clearly not obvious to fill in the frameworks today. The number of open posts is particularly positive, as is the willingness to meet the needs of services. As you have indicated, it will take an analysis to understand why these 600 vacant posts do not find amateurs, in any case volunteers, to carry out these missions, which are so essential for our country. Thank you for your determination. I hope that in the short term we will be able to conduct investigations through local police and demonstrate to these potential criminals – we will still consider them innocent – that we are determined to prosecute them and not to leave any unpunished crime on our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the prison administration recently announced that 30 inmates in Lantin Prison had been tested positive for coronavirus. Little information was filtered, apart from the fact that visits and transfers were suspended. Minister, do you confirm this information? Has the figure changed to date? Have any staff members been tested positive? What measures have been taken to curb the progress of this cluster?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u18	Madam President, my colleague, I am able to confirm that there were 29 positive prisoners in the prison, 21 of whom were in the Lantin prison and six in the covid section of the prison. Of the 21 positive inmates in the prison, 13 were not vaccinated, 5 received a first dose and 3 were fully vaccinated. On 25 September, only 9 inmates were still tested positive for covid-19 in the institution, with no new cases recorded. In the case of staff, only 2 officers declared positive for covid-19 were still absent on the same date. The measures taken since last Thursday are as follows: confinement of the two wings having had several cases; suspension of incoming transfers to the prison; repositioning of the compartment throughout the prison; no movement in the prison apart from the showers between Thursday and Sunday (for reminder, the telephones are in the cell); wearing of the mask during the visit and limiting physical contacts between visitors and detainees; the officers wear specific protective clothing in the two wings confined and no unsupervised visit, in any case this week. As you can see, the situation was quickly taken over and the measures taken are likely to limit any risk of extension. In addition, all prisoners who wish to be vaccinated have been able to do so for several months now. In addition, since then, vaccines have been systematically insured for new prisoners. As a result, 140 doses will be delivered next Monday to the prison to continue this permanent vaccination. I would add that in prison as elsewhere the refusal of vaccination has consequences, as 12 of the 29 prisoners who were infected refused vaccination. I hope that the situation will return to normal as soon as possible. This is what seems to be happening since since Tuesday, transfers to this institution can resume their normal course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u19	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I am pleased to see that the situation has been taken care of.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the ambitions of the government agreement are important to the Department of Justice. We have already been able to discuss the matter. The additional financial resources that you have authorised for it will help to increase the capacity of the services to act. Within the framework of road safety precisely, for several months control equipment has been installed and announced on the road network, in particular to control more speed on our roads with for example the hundred new radars in Wallonia. As a result of these facilities, however, some magistrates had publicly indicated that they were not in a position to deal with PVs that would be carried out by the police services, which themselves were in a situation of significant administrative overload that required quota and tolerance systems. In view of this situation, last July, you announced the creation of a national prosecutor's office dedicated specifically to the treatment of road traffic offences, a public prosecutor's office which will be responsible for the entire territory of the country and which will thus try to standardize criminal policy in this area while at the same time making it possible to reduce the work of the fourteen local prosecutors' offices. So, can you tell me how many people are going to go into this prosecutor's office? Will specific experience and expertise be required to integrate it? How will the engagement procedures be carried out? How many people are engaged and to achieve what effective capacity in December? Is an estimate of the number of immediate perceptions handled by the Public Prosecutor's Office already determined? Will this prosecutor's office have as a priority the task of dealing with small offences? Finally, is consultation already under way with the Regions in the context of the implementation of this new road prosecutor's office in parallel with the facilities planned by the federated authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u21	During this summer's holiday, Minister, you announced that you would like to work on a new national road safety watch. It is clear that road safety is an important political issue and even a problem. We all have to work on that. It is also clear that we need to increase our chances of getting caught. It is not the same throughout Belgium, by the way. There are differences between regions. When you launched this idea, we immediately asked ourselves whether creating such a new structure is the right solution. Will that effectively help to increase that opportunity and address road safety? We have asked ourselves whether this is at the expense of efficiency? Should we not strengthen the existing traffic parks? Those were the questions that came up to us. You made a preliminary draft. There are a number of answers to Mr Pivin's questions. In the meantime, the Supreme Court has also given its opinion on this preliminary draft. What does it turn out to be when people read that advice? The Hoge Raad also asks questions about the added value of a new rural parquet. The Council explicitly states that it would be better to strengthen, strengthen or develop existing structures. He also questioned certain problems of competence and, literally, pointed out that there was a far too vague definition in the preliminary draft on that division of powers. It is an interesting opinion of 23 pages but not so favourable to your idea. What else does the Supreme Court say? That the creation of such an entity should be the result of a far-reaching reflection and bring added value to the seeker. He also states that the explanatory memorandum does not provide sufficient evidence of the reason for setting up such a national court. Can you objectively justify why an additional structure is needed for road safety rather than strengthening existing structures? That's not in the design. Where do you think the added value is? It is a preliminary draft and opinions have already been requested, but what is the state of play? When do you intend to come to the Chamber with this design?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u22	Thank you for these questions, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Pivin, with regard to the opinion expressed to you on 31 May 2021, the request of the College of Prosecutors concerning the framework of this new prosecutor's office was as follows: "The framework of the new prosecutor's office is as follows: three magistrates, including a road safety prosecutor with the rank of King's prosecutor, two road safety prosecutors, two prosecutors (one Dutch-speaking - one French-speaking), a bilingual chief secretary, two service secretaries (one Dutch-speaking - one French-speaking, each with a good knowledge of the other language) two level B experts, Bachelor of Law (one Dutch-speaking - one French-speaking), some thirty level B secretaries or level C assistants." With regard to the recruitment of staff from expertise, judges should be distinguished from administrative staff. With regard to magistrates, I cannot answer the question about their recruitment and the determination of their profile, which is the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Justice. With regard to administrative staff, the ideal is to recruit staff who already have experience in road traffic and knowledge of the functioning of police prosecutors, but it goes without saying that recruitment will take place on the basis of the applications submitted and that it cannot be certain that all those engaged will have this profile if the recruitment objectives set out above are to be met. In the light of your second question, Mr Pivin, it is planned to organise, pending the entry into force of the law establishing the institution, a voluntary secondment of staff within the support service of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to prepare the installation of the new public prosecutor's office in the areas of computerization, logistics, staff supervision and coordination between the newly created public prosecutors' offices and the public prosecutor's offices. The detachments concerned concern a magistrate acting as chief of corps, the chief secretary and the two secretaries, heads of department. Calls for candidates will be made within the next two weeks. With regard to your third question, no commitment has been made. However, I would like to point out that the support service of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the networks of "road traffic" expertise of the College of Attorneys General and the APG Mag Police are already mobilised in the framework of the creation of this new prosecutor's office, which is a priority project. With regard to the estimates of the number of immediate perceptions and other cases to be dealt with by the new Public Prosecutor's Office, I attach in the annex to this letter the opinion of the College of Attorneys General of 31 May, containing an estimate of the cases falling within the field of competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the figures for the years 2019 and 2020, which I will transmit to you. It is important to point out that the reduction of the workload will be limited to the preparation of this file, the final stage of the preparation of the files and the follow-up of the hearing still the responsibility of the prosecutor's office. With regard to your fourth question, the main task of the new prosecutor's office should be to deal with the infringement cases initiated by an immediate perception. Finally, a permanent consultation is organised with the Regions in the framework of the creation of this new Public Prosecutor's Office. The various texts have been submitted to our partners in the Regions. The creation of a new public prosecutor's office was received very favourably because it aims to solve, among other things, the problems of quotas and tolerance, which will have a positive effect on road safety. I also welcome the remarkable work on road safety done by our colleague Valérie De Bue. She is an explicit requester of this national prosecutor's office, which aims to reduce the number of quotas and the margins of tolerance. Every day there are still many deaths in traffic to be regretted. Look at the numbers from the last few weeks. We are not achieving the objectives of the States-General of Road Safety at all. The targets are set in 2011, but our country is still a great deal above them. So something really needs to be done. I am convinced that the central traffic park will help us with this. I would like to refer to the federal court, which was established 20 years ago, with national competence, in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. In the meantime, I think we all agree on the added value of that federal court. The setting-up of a road safety market was discussed with the various partners, including the regions. We received all the support for this from the regions. As you know, the idea of setting up the road safety court was supported and explicitly requested by the College of Attorneys General and the various prosecutors on the ground. This new parquet will ensure a more efficient approach to traffic infringements. Mrs De Wit, if we continue as we have done over the past few years and decades, then nothing will change, I fear. Such a structure will be fully complementary to the existing parquets. One should also not forget the modern settings that have been installed in recent years: the track checks, the flash cameras, the red light cameras. We see today that they provide many additional findings, but that they are often not processed or little. That depends on the quotas set by the local parquets. There is little or no grip on this at national level. It is just that new parquet that will represent an important new step in reducing quotas and tolerance margins. That means exactly that we will increase the chance of getting caught. You're a clear advocate of the chance of getting caught. You should know that in our country today certain track checks are not active or only work half the time. There are tolerance margins of several tens of kilometres above the maximum allowed speed. As long as all this remains, there will be a lot of road safety in our country. With a national traffic park, we can agree on a directive that applies to the whole territory. For Flanders and Wallonia this will be the same and no more differences, as you rightly point out. It's like that national traffic park that's gonna make a difference in that respect. The opinion of the College of Attorneys General refers to the fact that the new parquet will strengthen the local parquets. A significant part of the current administrative work of the police guards will be taken over by this new parquet and the local parquets will then be able to focus on the heavier violations, the volume of which is also increasing. Following up, for example, large volumes of immediate collections or the implementation of European certificates requires a certain form of centralisation. The system of European certificates makes our country responsible for collecting unpaid fines from Belgians abroad. If we left this to the local parquets, it would again depend on the will of the local parquets to follow it. With the national court, we will be able to take over that work from them. That too is an important reason to organise such a national traffic park. The national court will help to achieve a coherent and uniform approach to these traffic offences. We are now in happy expectation of the Council of State's opinion. I have read the opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice and, of course, we are going to reply to it in the final texts that we will forward to Parliament. All the prosecutors and prosecutors in this country are, like me, convinced that this is necessary. We get the mustard partly in France. That country is not always doing so well, but when it comes to road safety we can learn a lot from our French colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u23	Thank you, Minister. Your answer was extremely complete. I share your conviction unreservedly. I simply hope that recruitment will be on hand and that the secondment technique will be used for as little time as possible. Indeed, the secondment may weaken other services and transfer people, without providing a concrete response to the objective pursued. But I have no doubt that you will achieve your ends. You have the means and the determination to do so; I will do no more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. Firstly, let there be no doubt that road safety is an important item and that we must do everything in our power to do so. I think we can agree on that. On how we should do that, we may not be on the same page; we believe that this should be done as efficiently as possible. You spoke of route checks that are not yet in operation. You also know from your city of Kortrijk that many local authorities are waiting for a decree from Mrs Peeters to do more around GAS 5. Unfortunately, that is not yet on the table today. Perhaps you could raise this issue with your party mate so that we can work together on it, when we are talking about those route checks. The Supreme Court's advice is not new. The Council is very explicit on the fact that it is not sufficiently justified in the explanatory statement. So you have some work to do. According to the council, there must be a far-reaching reflection and it must provide added value to the seeker. Now this is not sufficiently demonstrated in the texts as they stand. They wonder whether a new entity should be added to the legal order. Wouldn't it be better to strengthen existing structures such as police patrols, such as the crossborder platform, such as the expertise network of the College of Attorneys General or the Domains and Penale Boeten offices? I understand that it's interesting to work on that. The goal you wish to achieve is also important but where does it stop? If we opt for our own national road safety market, will we create an additional market for other issues? I am thinking, for example, of a national court on sex crimes or a national court on drugs or other themes. There are many difficult issues within criminal law and within society that require a very efficient approach. It's a Pandora box that you open. I'm always worried when extra structures are being created. My experience until further notice is that there is a structure as close as possible to the site. Now you put another one on top. I hope you are right and that it will lead to greater efficiency, but if you put a roof over a number of floors, it will usually not improve efficiency. I'm genuinely worried about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u25	As we know, the fight against crime requires an effective response to the first fact committed. It is essential to prevent any impunity felt (or proven) by a first offender. Without this, recidivism is often found. Even yesterday I read that you planned to extend the immediate transaction system to various minor offences. This can indeed contribute to ensuring a concrete and effective sanction response. This response, whether criminal or administrative, requires a concerted operation of the repressive chain. Recently, you proposed the implementation of a "one-manual of good practices" for police, justice and local authorities. At the level of local authorities, it is indeed essential to be able to ensure consistency in the monitoring of crime, particularly in the light of security contracts and preventive measures, preventive services and administrative sanctions, which we mentioned yesterday in committee. This is clearly an essential issue of public safety, and in this respect, the SAC law, as you know, allows for distortions of treatment between municipalities. The question of the ability of the municipalities not to lower the age to 14 in order to be able to sanction is a difficulty for the orientation that you are suggesting. Indeed, the difference in treatment of primary care authors (whether 14 years old, 15 or 16 years old) from one municipality to another may require changes. For example, the majority of Brussels municipalities have retained the age of 16 in order to be able to administratively sanction an author. The low proportion of municipalities that have lowered the age of prosecution was again noted yesterday. Could you please tell me what analysis of the practices used by the police, justice and local authorities was carried out by your services in the context of the fight against first-line crime? What measures do you intend to coordinate with your colleague from the Interior in this context? Have you structured a consultation with local government federations? What work, and by whom will it be done, do you intend to undertake to implement this common manual of "good practices" on paper anyway? You set out the example of the "youth monitoring rooms" in Antwerp, is there an exchange of experience on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u26	Mr Pivin, your relevant questions follow the conference on urban violence which was organised by my colleague Verlinden and myself in early July, in particular at the request of Mr Philippe Goffin. We will be holding a second conference on this issue in the fall – in a face-to-face format, we hope. Delinquency must be seen as a vicious circle that ultimately leads to a criminal record that is important to the person concerned. The approach to this crime so far, on the one hand, required a great deal of effort on the part of the police and the judicial system and cost society a great deal of money and, on the other hand, did not always lead to an optimal result. Unfortunately, the figures of recidivism in our country prove this. A different approach must be taken, an approach to justice in collaboration with socio-preventive actors that tackles the root causes of the problems underlying delinquent behaviour. The project of the Youth Monitoring Chamber in Antwerp seems to be a good example of this new approach. A new method is created. This approach requires cooperation between security services, administrative services, socio-preventive and curative services, and is the starting point for the future framework note developed with our federal, regional and local partners. On the other hand, the speed of reaction is also essential. The traditional method of investigation and prosecution is not always the most appropriate because it does not always guarantee a quick response. Rapidity is a sine qua non for efficiency. In popular language, this is called the giving-giving policy. This policy must be applied to first offenders; young people who commit a first offence, however minor, must be properly supervised and immediately given a warning to prevent them/they from switching to other, more serious forms of crime. The services of the Internal FPS maintain a database of good practices in the prevention of juvenile violence. It is available at www.besafe.be. As I said, this fall, we will be holding a second conference on urban violence. All partners in the security chain will be invited again. This time, we will also present good practices from abroad, particularly in the area of rapid justice and immediate reaction policy. We will support as much as possible the good practices of youth monitoring chambers, drug treatment chambers and possibly other courts where the underlying crime problem is truly addressed. In parallel with this conference on urban violence, discussions are currently under way with the Regions in particular on the comprehensive security framework note and on the package to which you refer. With my colleague from the Interior, my objective is to finalize these discussions by the end of this year. Attention will also be given, in the framework note, to the problem of urban crime and primary crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u27	Madam Chair, Minister, I have no reply. In my view, the natural place of exchange for the follow-up to this issue will be the conference that will be organised in the autumn at your initiative, Minister, as well as at that of your colleague from the interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u28	You said you wanted to split the prison officer's status. The aim would be to create two distinct professions: the security assistant and the detention attendant. The former would focus on monitoring and observation tasks, while the latter would be responsible for accompanying and motivating inmates. Currently, prison officers perform these two tasks. Trade unions fear a difference in status between the two future trades. The security assistant would be paid less than that of the detention attendant. I would like the following details on this reform. What is the status of this reform project? Will the two statutes be paid differently and if so, what will be the difference and what justifies it? Will the reform be accompanied by a challenge to the 36-hour recovery system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u29	With the creation of these two new functions, we want to further separate the tasks of supervision and support and invest more in the professionalization of these tasks. While the security assistant has additional responsibility for carrying out various monitoring and observation tasks, the detention attendant has a specific task of supporting and accompanying the detainees, both during their detention and in preparing for their return to society. Custody attendants will be responsible for day-to-day support in the detention unit, motivation, referral to other services, but they will also be actively involved in certain activities with inmates, such as employment, unit activities, etc. It is true that the creation of these two new functions raises concerns among staff. I have a lot of understanding for that. Here I would like to reassure the staff: this way of working also offers added value to them. This separation of duties will allow staff members to concentrate more, to specialise either in accompanying tasks or in monitoring tasks. In this way, everyone can do what he or she does best, what he or she likes to do. Formal social consultation on the project began in the Higher Committee for Consultation on 20 September. This phase was preceded by an informal exploration phase in which all trade union organizations had the opportunity to express their concerns. These have been taken into account as far as possible. Next, the detention attendant will receive an additional allowance, by analogy with the principle of compensation for staff in charge of accompanying internees within the psychiatric annexes. On the issue of wage pressure, we are following the systems in place in some surrounding countries such as the Netherlands and Scotland. The wage pressure between the security function and the more complex one of accompaniment is an essential aspect of their differentiation. Finally, the 36-hour regime is not currently being called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. You recalled the concern of the workers and their representatives. You tried to reassure them. I don't think your answer will. I interrogated you because some workers had stopped me, because they were concerned about this situation. You have confirmed that you are going to create a differentiation among prison staff, including in terms of remuneration according to the tasks to be performed. In doing so, you will set up a certain tension between the workers. Now that I have received confirmation of this policy, I will come back to question you more precisely by relaying the demands of the workers who disagree with this reform project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u31	Summer is over, also the late summer seems to be over and the long promised empire of freedom is finally coming. We owe this to the fact that we have been subjected to massive vaccination, especially in Flanders. At last everything begins to normalize, after an effort of millions of people who have lived with the brakes for one and a half years. In the prisons, a somewhat different movement took place over the past year and a half. Where ordinary citizens were given all kinds of extra rules, hundreds of prisoners could benefit from reductions in sentences, interruptions or delays in execution, all as a result of the pandemic and the need to reduce pressure on overcrowded prisons. In July, you continued the corona measures in prisons until 15 October, while the next set of easings in society started on 1 October. Will the corona measures in the prisons still, as originally planned, remain in force until 15 October? Are you prepared to stop them a little earlier, for example on 1 October, along with the other relaxations? Are you considering extending the measures again? How is the vaccination campaign going in prisons? What is the percentage of fully vaccinated inmates? Is it possible to deliver the vaccination rate split by prison? The latter information may also be provided in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u32	Mrs De Wit, as regards the first three questions: all prisoners who were still in prison as a result of COVID-19 had to return to prison on 15 September. No phased return of detainees was organised. The measure relating to early release as a result of COVID-19 was extended by Royal Decree until 30 September 2021. Early release shall be granted until that date and shall not be renewed. You mentioned October 15th, but it is about September 30th. As for your fourth question: in a first vaccination campaign, which ran from 31 May to 20 July 2021, vaccination was offered to all inmates present. 7,472 of them received a first dose, 6,731 received a second. Since early August, the incoming detainees have also been offered a vaccine. Since then, 539 inmates received a first or second shot. We'll continue to offer the vaccination. Any new inmate should be asked whether he or she has been vaccinated or wants to be vaccinated. I cannot give you an overview of the number of vaccinations per facility: the current electronic patient file Epicure does not allow statistics to be drawn. The population changes daily, but it is not possible to take into account incoming detainees who have already been vaccinated. The new electronic medical file that we are preparing should be helpful here, but that is not yet there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u33	I am glad that the measures have been gradually reduced and that the new standard of execution can hopefully come about. Hopefully it's a healthy normal, that goes without saying. Hopefully the execution of the sentence will also be effectively correct. I am aware that a lot of vaccines have already been given. I am aware that the population is changing. Three quarters will certainly have received a first dose. This is important for public health, but it is also important for the guards and the detainees and for the execution of the sentence to be possible. Hopefully, we'll soon be able to get clear figures per prison. We'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u34	Mr President, the Central Prison Supervisory Board has released an annual report on 2020 which draws some striking and interesting conclusions. For example, the Supervisory Board states that there would be irregularities in the search of detainees. Some things would go wrong, like male penitentiary officers who search female prisoners. The Supervisory Board also calls for a stop to systematic searches. The nude fouillerings are also targeted. It is clear that searches within a prison are necessary. Both the security of the guards and the co-detainees can be guaranteed, for example after a leave period. Otherwise, it will be very easy to smuggle drugs or weapons or anything else into prison. We also know that it is not waterproof, I am thinking of the recent stabbing in Merksplas, but it is still a guarantee. But what if the searches become systematic? Are the directives and regulations on search adequate? That may be where the problem lies or where it needs to be adjusted. The annual report also denounces the endemic overpopulation of our prisons. With the delay in the execution of the sentence to be made up, I understand that we have just begun to catch up with the corona measures and the entry into force of the law on internal legal status on 1 December, the challenge of overpopulation will only increase. I don't think I should explain that to you. Is a standard search after a detainee who has been outside the prison walls also considered systematic? Are you planning changes to the legislation or to the policy of searching in prisons in order to respond to the criticism of the Supervisory Board? If so, which one? Important for your policy and its roll-out, what is the prognosis of prison capacity over the next five years if you take into account the opening of new prisons, the closure of old prisons and other initiatives such as the realisation of detention homes? Finally, what is the estimate of the number of places needed if you take into account the implementation of the short sentences from 1 December, the intention to apply more rapid law, the delay in the execution of the penalty due to the corona crisis and other initiatives communicated by you? It is important that there is a prognosis and assessment of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u35	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, your first question concerns the standard layouts and whether they are considered systematic. The answer is yes. If every prisoner were searched on his return from outside the prison walls, just because he was outside the prison walls, there would be systematic search. In 2014, the Constitutional Court has already ruled against carrying out such systematic searches. The law that systematically searched has been destroyed. In accordance with the current legal framework, a detainee can only be searched on the body if the director considers that there are individual indications that an investigation into the clothing is not sufficient and therefore a search on the body is necessary. The aim is to ascertain whether the prisoner is in possession of objects or substances which may be prohibited or dangerous. In other words, before being able to search, the Director must have additional concrete and individualised elements specific to the particular inmate, which require a search. The execution of a body search after each return from leave or an exit permit, without having such an individualized element, would thus amount to a prohibited systematic search on the body. Since the judgment of the Constitutional Court, several instructions have already been sent to prisons, explaining the conditions under which the search on the body can take place. It also refers to the ban on the systematic nature of searches. In the light of the developments described in the reply to command 2, which I will come to later, those instructions will be further refined. However, consideration should be given to whether, in the interests of maintaining order or security, where the search is necessary and in order to determine whether the prisoner may be in possession of prohibited objects or substances, an investigation may also be carried out on the prisoner's clothing, in accordance with the guidelines given by the Director. Inmates entering prison, for example on leave, are thus subject to investigation into the clothing. I now come to your second question. The search has already been the subject of instructions for the prisons, but will be further refined. The purpose of a search is to verify whether the prisoner is in possession of prohibited or potentially dangerous objects or substances. A search is only possible if there are individualised indications that a search of the clothing is not sufficient to ensure safety or order. It is also important that the fouille is done in a way that respects the dignity of the prisoner. DG EPI is currently reviewing its body-fouling procedures, which will be integrated into all other prison security procedures. Moreover, this is a response to the recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman. A working group has been set up to clearly define the mechanisms for a search and to draw up the new instructions to be included in the training of the intervention teams and for the uniform application of the search. As regards the application of new instructions in the field, quality control will be carried out by the Directorate for Integrated Security at central level, as well as by the new local security coordinators, the safety and security managers, whose recruitment is ongoing, 4 this year and 18 next year. As for your third and fourth questions, based on a master plan, 1.662 places would be added in prisons by 2025. In addition, 620 places for internees will be provided in the three new FPCs. That's an increase of over 2,000 places. My predecessor estimated that the execution of the sentences for persons sentenced to short sentences could have a good effect on the prison population in the short term, up to 400 more prisoners. We'll see, we'll monitor that well, there's no way there'll be more. This growth will certainly be gradual as this law will only apply from 1 December to judgments delivered with the force of res judicata. We will see the first effects from the end of January 2022. In order to avoid this legislative amendment leading to an increase in the prison population, detention homes with a more adapted detention regime are set up in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing that a number of instructions are being reviewed about the search, because throwing the child away with the bath water does not seem very good to me in terms of guaranteeing safety, as I said earlier. It is a good thing that this is being done. I'll write down the prognosis of the extra places that will come. There's a lot of them already. This is one of ours. It is not good to adapt the number of prisoners to capacity, whether short or long sentences are involved. The capacity must be adapted to the numbers. As far as we are concerned, this applies not only to cells, but also to ankle straps and the possibility of working time. We cooperate on many fronts. Even local authorities are being called in to make that possible for the community service, and I know that Mrs Demir is working on those ankle straps. It is good that additional places are provided in the master plan. It is only a matter of waiting, given the current overpopulation, to see if the additional places will suffice. I think that should be monitored very carefully and we should not be too shy to have too many at some point. It is important to ensure that when a penalty is imposed, whatever it is, it is carried out. Even if it's an alternative punishment. This is essential in the context of the fight against recidivism. In the Netherlands, this has been done, and additional capacity has been created. Afterwards there was too much capacity, but in the meantime at least all the punishments were carried out there. I think we can definitely look over that wall. We are certainly following it, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u37	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I can tell you two things: in a 2010 case related to the sale and purchase of gold in Belgium, the Antwerp Correctional Court sentenced Alain Goetz and the S.A. Tony Goetz for money laundering and forgery in writing. The issues you raise in your question are examined by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, it is not possible for me to provide more information on this subject, given the secrecy of information and judicial investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u38	Minister, thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u39	Last summer, Minister, I hope you asked Parliament for the last time to postpone the entry into force of the law on the external legal status of the prisoner. It would now be before 1 December. That means that still not all punishments are carried out. We already have a perspective on getting better, even though anyone who is serving a sentence of up to 18 years will still be able to do so under restricted detention or apply for electronic surveillance. The implementation of more penalties with the entry into force of the Act on 1 December will not be an easy exercise, as the delay will have to be eliminated by the corona measures. You estimate the number plus 400, even though the execution does not take place for all penalties at the same time and there are also detention homes. That's right. In any case, there is no doubt that the prison population will increase to the same extent. Is it still feasible, in your view, for the relevant law to enter into force on 1 December? Can you confirm that there will be no further request for postponement? You have already mentioned that administrative initiatives have already been taken, for example, to accompany detention homes when the law enters into force to avoid overwhelm in prisons. Are there any other initiatives in the pipeline to limit the influx? Can you give an update on the number of detention homes opened on 1 December and the places available there? Do you have a specific plan of approach for the start-up period until entry into force and after entry into force? If so, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u41	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, Mrs Dillen, thank you for the questions. I'm just gonna look up the answer. I would like to give a grouped answer to the questions asked. As laid down by the legislator, the law will enter into force on 1 December 2021. It is expected that the first detainees under the new regime of the law will present themselves at the prison between mid and end of January 2022. For the sake of clarity, these are final convictions issued as of 1 December 2021, against which no appeal is open. Working groups have now been set up with the partners concerned to examine and prepare the many partial aspects. I am thinking, among other things, of the aspects of IT, training initiatives, information to target groups and conversion letters. Within the FPS Justice, the Directorate-General of the Prison Service and the Legal Service of the Penitentiary Administration are already doing everything in their power to prepare the execution as best they can and to complete the necessary instructions. With the exception of convicted persons for terrorist or sexual offences, the sentenced persons concerned will be able to be accommodated in a detention house with a specific detention regime and a positive guidance for the convicted person. That group may be extended to include young or first offenders, sentenced to a maximum of five years in prison and with the same exclusions as for the punishments under three years, i.e. terrorism and sexual offences. In addition, at the reception of the convicted person in prison, a quick first screening will be carried out, which will determine whether a detention in the detention house is immediately possible or whether it is better to keep the person in prison, as his condition does not permit an immediate stay in the detention house. Of course, in case of problems, a reverse transfer can also be carried out, namely back to a classic prison. On 11 June 2021, the Council of Ministers approved the opening of at least two detention homes. With the Government of the Buildings, we are fully preparing that opening. In such detention homes, residents will reside in a community regime with great autonomy to take a detention path into their own hands. It also stresses reintegration, provides active guidance to prepare social inclusion and will develop activities and additional opportunities to participate in activities in the outside world, such as job search, therapy or training. The size of a detention house can range from about twenty to sixty places. The average cost per detainee per day is between 140 and 160 euros for Justice, i.e. regardless of the cost of the building. That cost is comparable to the cost of a classic prison. The precise working procedure and elements are currently being developed, including in a vademecum, which describes the entire process of detention from reception to return. By the end of the legislative term, we want to plan some 15 detention homes, spread throughout Belgium, to ensure that detention takes place as close as possible to our own living environment. It is important to achieve sustainable social reintegration and to reduce the damage to detention by maintaining contacts with relatives and relatives as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u42	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I am certainly pleased that there will be no further postponement of entry into force and that everything will be well prepared. You said that at least two detention homes would be prepared, but you did not say whether they would indeed be open by the end of January at the latest, in order to be able to accommodate the first additional prisoners. You did not answer that question, I hope you will make it. I'm writing down 15 by the end of the legislature. We will certainly fill that out. You should know that my N-VA colleague Sarah Smeyers already tabled a resolution on the establishment of detention homes during the 2010-2014 legislature. So it's a long-term work in the end because this year we are already the blessed year 2021. Of course, for those who are eligible, which is very important, I am convinced that detention homes could be an appropriate alternative in the context of reintegration. However, 15 towards the end of this legislature, and already minus two, means that there is still some work to be done. We follow it closely, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u43	Madam President, Minister, I had recently asked for figures on the number of registered bicycle thefts in Belgium. This showed that more than 33,000 bicycles were stolen in 2016 and that this number had decreased to 28,000 in 2019, a decrease of 14%. For electric bicycles, however, there is a reverse trend. Indeed, the share of electric bicycles in the bicycle thefts increased from 1.3% to more than 7% in 2020. In some cities, this percentage is even higher. Thieves clearly opt for fewer bikes, but for the more expensive ones. In Leuven, where I live, the police have decided to shift a gear higher in the approach to bicycle thefts. Amongst other things, decoys will be used. A decoy bike is a bike that is placed by the police with a GPS tracker, allowing the bike to be tracked when it is moved or stolen. According to the press communication of the Leuven police, this is an action within the framework of special detection methods and there are still agreements to be made with the public prosecutor. On Sunday you have already announced that you want to deal with the impunity of bicycle thefts by immediately imposing a fine of 250 euros on bicycle thieves caught in the act. That is a very good thing. We need to take bicycle theft seriously. Again, I refer to Leuven, where the police figures show that bicycle theft is the most common criminal activity. For many people the bike is the only means of transport, especially in the cities. Cyclists should therefore be able to trust that they can safely store their bikes. Many bicycle thefts happen in public space. The figures requested also showed that more than 19% of all stolen bicycles were stolen from their own home. Do you provide a framework for the use of decoy bikes by police zones in the framework of special detection methods? I don't think it's intended that each police zone should go into consultation with the parish. Is a distinction currently being made in the prosecution policy according to the nature of bicycle theft? Are the costs of the bicycle, the location of the theft and so on taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u44	Mrs Paltteau, there is currently a framework for the use of decoy bicycles. The police must justify why the use of that technique in their zone is desirable in order to comply with the conditions laid down in the relevant cassation judgment. The report will have to demonstrate, on the basis of crime analyses and rules affected, that there is a real crime problem that can be dealt with by the technique of the decoy bike. The principles of proportionality and subsidiarity will have to be respected. Often the use of the technique of the decoy bike has as its objective the detection of gangs of bicycle thieves. That seems to me to be a good thing. At present no distinction is made according to the type of bicycle, but according to the extent of the damage suffered, in which the cost of the bicycle plays a role. For the sake of completeness, I can still tell you that in certain cases the firm approach to bicycle thefts was included in the zonal safety plans. In the meantime, you heard that with the College of Attorneys General we have developed a policy of systematically and quickly prosecuting bicycle thieves through the so-called immediate friendly settlement (OMS). A distinction will be made between ordinary and electric bicycles. We will do this through the well-known crossborder platform that is already being used for traffic offences. You know that this system is very efficient. 93% of the fines are paid. Of course, the OMS system will not be applied to recidivists or organized bicycle thieves gangs. That's where the classic justice system will do its job. These cases require a more stringent approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u45	Minister, I am pleased that there is a framework for using decoy bikes to track down thieves and that you take the matter seriously and make it a priority in your policy. I wish to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u46	Minister, we have known for some time that ISIS has committed terrible crimes. The fate of the Jezidis at the time of the Caliphate of IS is also known. They were victims of slavery, sexual exploitation, genocide. The Chamber has already acknowledged the crimes against the Jezidis. In a resolution, we have already called for commitments, including help for victims, but also for the trial of IS perpetrators. The real reason for my question is that we are now also getting more insight into the involvement of Belgian IS fighters. In De Morgen, a series of articles has been published on the slavery and genocide of Jezidis in the IS caliphate, covering several testimonies of Jezidi women who have personally been the victims of slavery and rape by Belgian perpetrators. Last week there was also the news from the federal prosecutor that six files have been opened at the moment about the involvement of FTFs in sexual slavery of Jezidi women, but that so far no complaints have been made by Jezidis in our country. The parquet also says that they are working on allegations that have appeared in the press. Mr Minister, are Jezidi refugees in Belgium already being systematically questioned today by the federal prosecutor about the crimes they have been victims of and about the possible involvement of Belgian IS fighters in this? In Germany, trials have already started against German IS fighters, who have committed the genocide and slavery of Jezidi. Will Belgium follow this example? Many Jezidi victims of Belgian perpetrators are abroad. In order to prosecute the Belgian perpetrators, it is important that these victims are heard by the court. Are you considering bringing the victims of Belgian offenders to Belgium, so that the federal court can question these people in order to build up files against Belgian IS fighters? Are you planning to consult with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on this? I've already addressed a similar question about Jezidi refugees to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u47	Thank you for your questions, colleague. In December 2020, the federal prosecutor took the initiative to contact the Foreign Affairs Office and the CGVS to find out how many members of this community are on our territory, in particular how many of them were victims of the violent acts committed by IS that could constitute crimes under international humanitarian law. DVZ then stated that it was impossible to answer this question since the service does not have statistics on ethnic origin or membership of a certain religious community. The Commissioner was able to provide targeted information and spoke of several hundred members of the Jezidi community without being able to determine from the outset who would have been the victims of these acts. I can confirm that the federal prosecutor has so far opened six cases concerning the possible criminal liability of Belgian foreign terrorist fighters suspected of having committed serious violations of international law against the members of the Jezidi community. Two other things will be opened shortly. You know that under the impetus of the federal prosecutor, responsible for terrorism in our country, very good work is being done. Since early 2015, more than 470 persons have been convicted of terrorist offences. Many of these convictions, of course, concern the crimes committed by the FTFs in the conflict zones of Syria and Iraq. A not small number of these FTFs were also convicted in absentia. The names of the persons concerned and the investigations opened by the federal prosecutor shall not be disclosed. You understand that this is the secret of the investigation. That principle remains valid, even for Syrian warriors. On the basis of more targeted elements of these dossiers, the investigators can check with the Commissioner whether there are elements in their files that could be useful for the ongoing investigations. International judicial cooperation in this type of case is, of course, far from evident. Firstly, it requires judicial cooperation with Iraq and therefore requires a certain degree of caution. It also brings with it a number of difficulties. Soon, a consultation with an Iraqi delegation will be planned in the Federal Office to explore how to cooperate with Iraq in the various cases relating to Iraq that deal with the Federal Office. Secondly, no requests for legal aid can be sent to Kurdistan because requests for legal aid are sent from state to state. However, there are other channels to collect relevant information for the investigation of violations of international law. For example, the federal prosecutor maintains numerous contacts with NGOs as well as with foreign judicial authorities in other European countries investigating similar cases and also with international bodies such as the United Nations Investigated Team to promote accountability for crimes committed by Daesh in Iraq and the Levant (UNITAD). The international mechanism has also been established by the UN General Assembly to deal with serious crimes of international law committed in Syria. These are systems that have proven their worth in the last few years with regard to the exchange of information about FTFs in view of their prosecution and trial. I would also like to point out that the Belgian courts have limited extraterritorial jurisdiction for crimes covered by international law. In particular, they may investigate and prosecute crimes committed by Belgian perpetrators or by persons residing in our territory as well as crimes committed against Belgian nationals or political refugees at the time of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u48	Mr Minister, I will have to read your answer again, because the sound quality was not 100 percent. I understand, of course, that the parquet is already active in this area. It is very important that the truth comes to light and that the crimes committed do not remain unpunished. In the case of IS fighters who have already been convicted, we must also consider what other actions they may have committed in order to ensure justice for the victims of those terrible crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u49	In the meantime, Mrs. Safai has also arrived. Mrs. Safai, would you like to reply? You didn't quite hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u50	Minister, I was present in the Committee on External Relations and I was somewhat delayed. As we all know, the Jezidis have undergone a genocide which in history will always be a bitter reminder of the barbaric ideology of the Islamists who do not recognize the Jezidis among the so-called peoples of the Book. The Jezidis expect justice and we must support them. It is our job as politicians to ensure that all the necessary instruments are provided so that we can achieve justice. Inhuman behaviour, such as genocide, terrorism, slavery and sexual slavery, must be severely punished wherever in the world. We must accept our responsibility, as we unanimously did with the resolution on the recognition and prosecution of the genocide crimes committed against the Jezidis and on aid to the Jezidis. Even though we are asking the government to work on it quickly, unfortunately we are getting signs that the opposite is happening and that we are failing as a country. At the same time, millions of euros are being spent to bring women IS-jihadis back to what they are supposed to call their country, while we are well aware that they have left our country deliberately to fight against it. This disappoints us very much. Just like these IS women have made a big contribution to sexual slavery for their men and they are just rewarded for it. Let us hope that the court will examine the substance of these criminals' case files and that severe penalties will be given as a clear signal against all those who, in violation of our Western values, want to eradicate a people by their Islamic ideology. I hope you're following these criminals' files very closely. In any case, we will continue to follow this in the Chamber. This is what we owe our conscience and the West, for the Jezidis, for the land and for humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u51	I do not know if Mrs Safai has listened to my answer. I have mentioned a number of trials and prosecutions that are ongoing. I once again congratulate the federal court for condemning more than 450 people for terrorism in our country. There is no European country that is doing better than Belgium. The ISIS women you refer to are also often convicted. Any form of terrorism is taken very seriously and prosecuted by our country. Concerning the Jezidi community, Belgium is also very active. I want to thank the people of the federal prosecutor's office once again. I am grateful to them for the work they are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u52	Mrs Safai has indeed not been able to fully listen to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u53	I'm really disappointed that those ISIS women are here. They are the perpetrators of that genocide, but also of that sexual slavery. They're here with us. That's why I'm asking them to be severely punished. A maximum of five years and then released isn't what they deserve. I would therefore like to follow up closely, even though I have not heard your reply. However, I do know that these ISIS women are here. My reply was a disappointment about what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u54	Madam President, if I may, I would like to respond to my colleague. This government has committed itself to bringing children out of the camps in particular. The women in question will be punished. If their involvement in this slavery is established, the court must be able to do its job and it must be punished. However, I would like to point out that these are innocent children who are in camps. Any violation of human rights must be combated. Those children must not be the victims of their parents' actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u55	Minister, the roof and floor of the top floor of the Janson wing of the Verviers courthouse is being dismantled. It is a delicate operation, which takes time, since what is deconstructive will have to be reconstructed in much the same way. This operation has aroused a lot of emotion among the Verviet population since, as you know, I have already asked you many times on the subject, the building we are talking about occupies an important place in the urban and heritage fabric of Verviers and in the heart of its inhabitants. The concern is all the greater since the moment of reconstruction cannot yet be established with certainty since we are awaiting the finalization of the general programme of Verviers' needs for justice and the arbitrations of the masterplan. Last week, the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments spoke in favour of the option of "renovation-reconstruction". But on this side too, a decision is expected on the judicial services that will be maintained in Verviers, as well as on the budget envelope that should be allocated to this operation. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, whether the general programme of needs - which you told me last June that it should, after analysis by the Régie, be submitted to the opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance - and the masterplan of judicial buildings have now been completed? If so, what are the guidelines for Verviers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. As far as the present courthouse is concerned, the Régie des Bâtiments has just completed the demolition of the Janson wing roof. Now, the slab that forms the second floor of Janson's wing is being removed. The historic courthouse of Verviers was built between 1830 and 1853 and has the peculiarity of having several wings. The renovation of one of the wings, namely the Janson wing, takes place in four phases, the first two of which are completed, i.e. the roof work and the dismantling of the floor of the second floor. The third phase is currently under way. The fourth phase, the dismantling of the floor on the first floor, will be carried out next year. The start date of the fourth phase is still pending approval from the Walloon government. Employees should not be transferred to another building during this work. The Régie des Bâtiments is still planning a complete renovation of the entire old courthouse, that is, the areas of the other three wings. The study and renovation period is scheduled to begin in 2022. During this work, one or more sections will be transferred to the rue de Dison. You understand me. Colleagues, I can reassure you. After many meetings, we decided to keep all the judicial services in Verviers. According to the master plan planned for Verviers, the total renovation of the Palace of Justice and the existing annex will be planned. The needs programme is based on the maintenance of all judicial services in the constellation as it is currently active in Verviers. Lastly, the question of which judicial services would have to be transferred to rue de Dison during the renovation work would have to be decided in consultation with the various heads of corps. Here's my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u57	Thank you, Minister, and especially thank you for this reassuring message. In fact, at some point, it was a question of a wish on your part for the activities to be gathered in Liège, which was totally contrary, not only to the quality of the service to the litigants, given the scope to be covered for communes such as Lierneux, Stavelot or Spa-Malmédy, but also against the declarations of proximity that you had still stated on 21 September last. We are, in any case, reassured on this issue. This was the main question addressed to you, since the rest obviously depends on the Régie des Bâtiments. But you have taken care to put into perspective the different phases of the work and the place in which the services could be gathered, even if at the moment it is not yet known which ones it will be; the main one is of course that the judicial activities remain there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u58	Minister, thank you for your reassuring response. I hear that the Vervieto judicial district will continue to have a centre of local justice in the woolly city and I think it is a good thing, on the one hand for the actors of the justice system, but also for the litigants. Thank you, therefore, for confirming this will for our borough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u59	It is my turn to warmly thank the minister who, on this issue, has done his job. He understood the needs of Vervietois and the position and desire of the actors of justice in Verviers, who needed to keep a strong pole of justice. This decision in principle is obviously very important, of course it remains to ensure the proper renovation of the courthouse, which is indeed an old building. It is structurally fragile, having been destroyed by the resistors at the time when the German occupier had established his headquarters there. There is still work on this issue, as well as on that of the prison, in order to perpetuate the justice pole in Verviers. I would like to take this opportunity to thank your office and your collaborators, Minister, who have done a really important job of which I have been the first witness. We forget them sometimes, but you knew, minister, that you were surrounded by high-quality collaborators and we were able to enjoy them on Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u60	Mrs Depaetere, this is a rather technical answer, and I will certainly send it to you again. We are, of course, based on the case law that has been delivered in this area. It seems that the caselaw accepts the legal nature of such clauses. Indeed, in 2010 the Court of Cassation applied the doctrine of the abuse of law to the performance and the consequences of such an obligation to purchase. This is the judgment of 1 October 2010. As early as 2000, the Antwerp Court of Appeal ruled that there could be force majeure if the factual circumstances constitute an insurmountable and permanent obstacle to further compliance with the purchase obligation laid down in the brewery agreement. Since the above-mentioned courts have applied these legal figures, specifically with regard to the purchase obligation, it could be argued that the validity of these terms is implicitly confirmed here. For the sake of completeness, it should be noted that the Law of 4 April 2019 added a number of provisions in the Code of Economic Law which seek, inter alia, to restrict unlawful terms between undertakings. Where appropriate, it is for the court to assess the validity of purchasing clauses in the light of these provisions. The provision in your second question concerns the specific situation of early termination by mutual agreement. This method of termination is linked to an important condition of form in order to prevent fraud or repression in respect of trade. The agreement must be included in an authentic instrument or a statement before the court. The court will have to decide whether the consent of the tenant to the early termination has been proved. This evidence could be derived, inter alia, from the voluntary implementation of the termination agreement. The court thus appears to have a certain margin of appreciation in this regard as regards proof of the existence of mutual agreement. This provision is only fully applicable in the Flemish Region and the Brussels-Capital Region. For the Walloon Region, Article 3 (4) provides since the Decree of 15 March 2018 that the parties may also terminate the current lease at any time, provided that an agreement is established by means of a written document submitted for registration. Specific rules on commercial leases have been a competence of the Region since 2014. The validity of the purchase obligation appears to be accepted by the caselaw. In the light of Article 1184 of the Old Civil Code, the Court of Cassation recently held that, although "according to Article 1184, first paragraph of the Old Civil Code, the non-binding conditions are always implicitly understood in reciprocal contracts, in the event that one of the parties fails to fulfil its obligation', it is for the court to rule on the action for dissolution "to examine the extent and scope of the undertaking referred to by the parties and to assess, in the light of the factual circumstances, whether the alleged deficiency is serious enough to rule on its dissolution'. I quote again: 'to examine the extent and scope of the undertakings entered into by the parties and to assess, in the light of the factual circumstances, whether the deficiency invoked is serious enough to justify its dissolution'. This is the result of the judgment in cassation of 7 January 2021. The judgment as to whether a particular deficiency constitutes a failure, which justifies the termination of the contract, thus falls within the jurisdiction of the facts. In this context, reference should also be made to Article 1762a of the Old Civil Code, which is part of the general rules on the rental of immovable property. That article provides that the explicit debinding condition shall not be held to be written. When renting buildings, the implementation of a debinding clause in a rental contract always requires the prior intervention of the court. I will also give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u61	Minister, it is indeed a technical matter, but your answers were enlightening for our work in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It would indeed be useful to receive your reply in writing, because I could not record all the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u62	Mr. Secretary, the story of Carles Puigdemont is well known. Since the submission of the question there has been a slight change because he is now residing back in Belgian territory. At least that's how we hear it. It doesn't change the fact that the sword of Damocles hangs over his head. I would like to stress that we must not forget that this person risks 25 years in prison because he is peacefully trying to achieve a particular political project. What our position or yours is not relevant. It's about the fact itself. I was present in Barcelona at the time of the referendum. That was an expression of a great civic commitment and it is unlikely that such a thing could lead to 25 years in prison in a state of law. The problem of his immunity has become a little complicated. The European Court of Justice has made it clear that it cannot be arrested or extradited as long as the proceedings or disputes it has brought are pending. Consequently, a Spanish arrest warrant would constitute an invalid basis for arrest or even extradition. Can you clarify the legitimacy of the Spanish arrest warrant, internationally, in the light of the rulings of the Court of Justice? Will you connect, at European level and/or bilaterally, with Italy and Spain to encourage them to respect the rules? What means does the Justice Department have at its disposal to assist Mr Puigdemont, who enjoys the right of residence in our country, in his struggle for democracy and freedom of expression? I know how attached you are to human rights and I hope to find an ally in you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u63	Minister, Mr De Roover has already outlined the situation. I have a few questions about this. What is the current state of affairs? How will you ensure from Belgium that, if Carles Puigdemont were to be extradited and imprisoned, his rights would be guaranteed? What guarantees are there at all? We have already heard from international reports that Spain does not recognise the principles of the rule of law with regard to minorities with a political view that goes against Spanish state nationalism. Will you press your Spanish colleague for a fair trial if Mr Puigdemont were to be extradited? Will you also mention this at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the recent arrest of Mr Puigdemont in Italy seems to be in stark contrast to the fact that he was a free man in our country. Following the waiver of parliamentary immunity adopted on 9 March 2021 at the plenary session of the European Parliament, Mr Puigdemont's defence brought an action for annulment of that decision and lodged an application for the adoption of provisional measures, in particular with a view to suspending the effects of the waiver of immunity pending a decision of the Court of Justice of the EU. In a decision of 30 July 2021, the request for provisional measures was rejected, with the reason that the risk of an arrest and therefore a disadvantage to the applicant had not been demonstrated with sufficient certainty. Several findings are made in the Decision in order to reach that conclusion. The lifting of immunity does not lead to the execution of the European Arrest Warrant. This is evident from the failure to implement the European Arrest Warrant issued against another Catalan leader. The non-execution decision led the Spanish court to refer a number of questions to the Court of Justice of the EU for a preliminary ruling, which de facto led to the suspension of the procedure for the enforcement of the European arrest warrant. Mr Puigdemont has been released again and returned to our country. It is now up to the Italian authorities to examine the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant and to take into account all the elements of the case. Mr Puigdemont also stated that he would remain at the disposal of the Italian court. In the present situation, it is not certain that the Italian authorities will decide to hand over Mr Puigdemont. The Italian authorities will express their views in full independence and in the light of all the elements of the case, including the questions referred for a preliminary ruling concerning the implementation and the expected clarification of the Court of Justice of the EU. The case is therefore currently in the hands of the judicial authorities. As a minister, I await the outcome of the proceedings in complete serenity and confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u65	Minister, I understand the separation of powers. That limits your potential performance, that goes without saying. What is seen as a non-accute danger, however, can very quickly turn into an actual arrest. This means that we sometimes make an active statement to other EU Member States, and not unjustly, because a number of basic principles are at risk. I think this is also the case here. Moreover, there is this situation at the European Court of Justice, where it is important to ensure compliance with it by our bodies. That's something that's on the table today. I hope, however, that you will use the full space available in your office, with respect for the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. As you will be aware, my party closely follows the evolution of this dossier. In the meantime, Carles Puigdemont was released. He will indeed have to go back to Italy at the beginning of October because of the fact that the European arrest warrant for Spain has yet to be examined and whether it will be extradited or not. However, it is still hallucinating how, even in the European Union, where traditional parties have the mouths of human rights all over the world, they are barely awake to the persecution of Catalan nationalists. Often these facts are simply minimized. Given that Carles Puigdemont has been staying in Belgium for a long time, I hope that you, together with your competent colleagues, will take care to ensure that justice is fair and correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic586x.u67	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Van Hecke's 55021011 and 55021098 were postponed.
