ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u1	Madam President, Minister, my first question concerns the end of the pandemic situation and how we know when it will happen. The second question deals with kinesi therapy in lung covid, regardless of whether patients were hospitalized and whether they have stayed in the intensive care department. The third question concerns the financing of the Federal Test Platform bis. The final question concerns the role that serological tests can play in obtaining the corona certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my question is limited but important. My colleagues and I have already asked you, within a more general framework, to evaluate the current measures and how you would deal with them in the event of a future pandemic. Within that framework, I had a small question about sports. I refer to a study in which it was shown that sport reduced the number of hospitalisations, including intensive care, and the number of deaths following covid infection. This confirms what we suspected or even knew: sports and movement are essential in the fight against covid. You decided to severely restrict sport, including by closing the sports institutions. Now that the importance of sport has been given a clear scientific basis, I wonder whether you would take a different decision and other measures in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u3	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the care staff in the vaccination centres. What is the status of volunteers? We have raised the cost ceiling, but I have been informed by the vaccination centres that this would not be enough for certain groups of volunteers, and that there is a risk of not finding enough vaccines such as resting nurses for the final phase of the vaccination campaign. Secondly, when healthcare providers volunteer at a vaccination centre, they risk losing their parental leave allowance. What are you going to do about that in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u4	I also have a question about the incidence of myocardiitis with the mRNA vaccine. To what extent is that being investigated? Is it true that this affects more men than women? What findings have you received from the EEA on this subject? How will we deal with this in the follow-up to the vaccination campaign, the so-called reboost? After all, we have again ordered a lot of Pfizer vaccines. As far as the corona dogs are concerned, the task force has decided not to deploy those dogs. How much budget was allocated for this? In connection with the announced relaxations, there are many experts who express their concerns. To what extent have you taken account of switching mechanisms in the announcement and design of these facilitations in order to reinstall and ensure that our people are adequately protected? As far as the second shot is concerned, it would now be decided that risk patients who have already received a first shot should not wait 12 weeks, but only eight weeks. Was that knocked off at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, or was this just an announcement? An important question is also what will happen to surplus vaccines, such as those in Brussels. I have heard that 45,000 AstraZeneca vaccines are not used there, while in Flanders there are more candidates to receive a vaccine than there are vaccines. Will you argue within the IMC for a redistribution of those unused vaccines? As regards the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, the FDA extended the expiry date. This is mainly due to the fact that the durability was proven, but that the lottery tickets have not yet been released. For a number of lots it is decided that they should be destroyed because they fear that there is a mix between Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. To what extent will this affect our vaccination campaign? I also get a lot of questions from healthcare providers who deliberately only gave themselves one vaccine after they were tested positive for covid in the first wave. Now they can't apply for a Covid Safe Pass. To what extent will you meet this? They can also no longer ask for a second vaccine. It's too late for that. Can you find a solution for those people? The REGN-COV2 cocktail, or the Trumpcocktail, is a cocktail of antibodies. Belgium would have signed on to a joint procurement. How many doses are we talking about? What is the budget foreseen for this? When are we gonna have that cocktail? It has been published that CureVac scores less well against the variants. We ordered 2.9 million doses. How much do we have to take it and pay it? If that's the case, how are we going to deal with that? It was found very unfortunate that there was a fourth death following vaccination. We didn't get a full look at the contracts. Also within the covid committee, they are still shaded. What about financial responsibility in the event of death after a vaccine? To what extent will the federal state have to bear that financial responsibility, as stated in the leaked contract? Has that been budgeted for? Have you discussed this with the families and the insurance sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I have tabled two questions. The first is about lung covid and postcovid and the second is about vaccinations. With regard to long covid, you recently communicated that people who accumulate medical costs due to persistent problems due to covid contamination are protected by the maximum invoice. This is good news, but that does not solve the whole problem. Indeed, some of the costs incurred by these patients are not eligible for the maximum invoice. I'm thinking psychotherapy. With only four to eight paid-back sessions, they often don't get there. I'm also thinking about ergotherapy. I am certainly thinking of costs for a dietician, which are only reimbursed very limited after a withdrawal. So we're definitely not here yet. What will happen to the costs that are not currently included in the maximum invoice? Is there also a plan that provides more general financial support for the patient, so that the necessary individual care can be obtained regardless of whether the costs are reimbursed or not? What is the state of play with regard to the mid-term evaluation of the HELICON project? How will we identify people who are facing postcovid? At the moment, there is no separate recognition. How does that work? My second question concerns voluntary vaccination with Johnson & Johnson's vaccine. In particular, I have some questions about communication with regard to the term voluntary. Just when young people were able to apply for the reserve list for that vaccine, I heard voices in the press here and there saying that the voluntary vaccine means that they are being vaccinated at their own risk. Would you mind explaining that for me? It cannot be that young people who are being vaccinated should do so at their own risk. Can you explain exactly what that means? If someone is vaccinated with Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, which is not eligible in se and does so on a voluntary basis, does the government have the same responsibility in the follow-up of those people? What do you think of the communication about this? Is there an update available? Is that running smoothly? Can we do that even better?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u6	Minister, I will ask you only one question about the vaccination of young people between the ages of 12 and 15. On 28 May, EMA approved the Pfizer vaccine for young adolescents aged 12 to 15. Since this authorisation, the opinion of the Higher Council of Health has been sought as to whether or not to vaccinate this age group. In addition, WHO urged States already well advanced in their vaccinations not to vaccinate the youngest in order to release doses for disadvantaged countries. Minister, beyond the issue of benefit-risk analysis for adolescents, what does the WHO's demand for maximum vaccination of the rest of the world before that of our young people inspire?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u7	Minister, as you know, covid-19 can have unexpected consequences for our body, such as loss of taste and smell, which may persist weeks after the patient's recovery. Most recently, the LROs reported that they were overcrowded and also reported long-term hearing loss in some patients recovering from coronavirus. In 7 to 14% of cases, covid-19 causes tinnitus and hearing loss. Saint-Luc University Clinics report having received patients with sudden deafness, whistles, ringing of ears or, on the contrary, hypersensitivity to sounds. According to their ORL service, covid-19 infection would promote a faster aging of the ears, with an impairment of the auditory nerve that could unfortunately be irreversible. In addition, apart from the neonatal screening of deafness and the use of the 2001 interview health survey, we do not have more accurate data on the number of deaf and hard of hearing people in our country. The Belgian National Institute of Statistics (INS) conducted a new survey in 2013, but the data have not been used with regard to deafness, which puts us in non-compliance with article 31 of the UN Convention. In short, Minister, with this bad news about the symptoms of covid-19, it is more broadly the issue of deaf and hard of hearing people that is being revived at the level of public health. As a result of this new information about hearing loss in patients with coronavirus, how do you plan to manage this work overload for ENTs? Do you have figures on the number of deaf and hard of hearing persons present in Belgium, in accordance with Article 31 of the UN Convention? If so, could a supplementary statistical study be launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u8	Minister, my first question concerns the AstraZeneca vaccine. Recently, an official from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) suggested completely abandoning the AstraZeneca vaccine for all age groups when alternative solutions are available. This assumption would also be under consideration in many countries, notably France and Germany. Minister, what do you think of this suggestion? Is this measure also envisaged in Belgium? If so, would we have the guarantee of having enough doses of the other vaccines to vaccinate all those who still need to? Has any discussion taken place in this context at an interdepartmental conference? My second question concerns the CureVac vaccine. In fact, last week, the German laboratory announced that its covid-19 vaccine candidate had only shown a 47% efficacy, a rate slightly lower than that required by EMA to allow marketing authorisation. This is bad news for Belgium, which ordered nearly three million doses of this vaccine. Minister, what future for the CureVac vaccine in Belgium? Will the tests still continue? Is it enough, in your opinion, for Belgium to maintain its order if this vaccine is to pass the 50% efficacy mark? Does this event disrupt the future of our vaccination campaign? My last question concerns the delta variant. Indeed, in England the number of contaminations has increased from 2,000 to 7,000 per day because of this famous variation. This would be involved in 96% of new cases. It is considered to be 60% more contagious than the English variant. These figures forced the British Prime Minister to slow down the defunction in his country by postponing the last stage, including the reopening of nightclubs, by one month. In addition, an English study also showed that out of 14,019 delta-carrying patients, 166 had to be hospitalized when they had already received two injections of the vaccine. Minister, what about the figures related to the delta variant in Belgium? What is known about the effectiveness of vaccines against this variant? What do we know today about patients vaccinated and infected with this delta variant? Finally, will specific measures be envisaged to curb this variation in our country? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u9	Minister, as soon as I submitted my question, the Indian variant was solid on the household on the other side of the Channel. In three quarters of the new infections it was this new variant. Professor Ravi Gupta of the British advisory group pointed out that this Indian variant has an exponential growth and even took the words new wave of infection in the mouth. What is the proportion of the Indian variant in the number of infections in our country? In the United Kingdom, based on the prevalence of the Indian variant, consideration is being given to not over-running the easing. Is this being considered in our country, too? The recent announcements suggest that this is not the case here, but I would like to hear it from you. Does the prevalence of the Indian variant affect the vaccination strategy? How is the growth of the Indian variant estimated with the announced relaxations in mind? I could also ask you the same questions for the Vietnamese variant, but specifically for that variant, would I have liked to know whether it was already established in our country or in other countries? Do the vaccines used in our country offer protection against that variant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u10	Minister, I refer to the written version of my questions. I also have a question concerning the treatment of early COVID-19. If someone has COVID-19 and is symptomatic, he calls his doctor and has to take a test. In a positive test, he calls the doctor again, who gives him wise advice and possibly recommends a Dafalgan. If the symptoms don't get worse, there's nothing going on and the patient is sicking out with his Dafalgan. If the symptoms get worse, he calls the doctor again, who gives him some advice, like drinking a mint tea. Only when it gets really serious does the GP refer the patient to the hospital. After all, general practitioners cannot or should not treat early covid. Why aren't symptomatic covid patients treated by general practitioners at a very early stage? Can general practitioners use off-label medicines to treat early covid? What medicines can be used for this purpose? Can the therapeutic freedom of the physician also be invoked here? A further question concerns the proof of immunity on the corona passport. This confirms that one has either been vaccinated or taken a negative PCR test. A previous infection can also be demonstrated with a negative PCR test, but should not exceed 180 days. Whoever got infected before will not be able to prove this. Then a blood test might actually prove its worth. Do you consider the blood test as possible evidence of immunity to be implemented in the corona passport? If not, why not? Wouldn't it be cost-effective for a GP to check for antibodies to covid in every routine blood test?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u11	Madam President, I am referring to my written questions, so as to give my group more time. Then I'll reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u12	Madam Chair, I note that my question about the interest of trained dogs in detecting covid-19 in human sweat has already been asked. I would like to know why the government or the minister considers this opportunity to be of little interest, even though it might have been interesting to try experiments, especially for mass gatherings (festivals, events, airports). My second question concerns the involvement of general practitioners. I believe that, after the holidays in September, we cannot continue the vaccination programme with collective vaccination centres throughout the country, which ultimately prevent a lot of cultural and sporting activities. We must now really put the general practitioner back at the centre of vaccination and move from the collective field to a notion in which vaccination is truly a medical act and must be carried out in the general medical practice. We have a few weeks to organize it. That seems indispensable to me. Minister, how will we soon move to vaccination in a medical practice rather than vaccination centres that require a large number of personnel, which I believe is no longer fully relevant today? It is necessary to move on to another method of administration of the vaccine by involving the general practitioner more closely. This should have already been done a little earlier. The question is very topical today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u13	Madam President, in view of the time allotted, I refer to my questions tabled. The decision to expand the vaccination strategy with the introduction of antigenic tests in pharmacy from 12 July is excellent news, long overdue. Minister, are official pharmacists directly informed of this faculty, and how? Is advisory and logistical support available to them? Which one? What further steps do you need to take by July 12 to implement them? Why are these tests not reimbursed? When I hear Mrs Vlieghe already talking about tightening as winter approaches, this confirms that we will continue to condition our social life and certain freedoms. I remain concerned about the fact that citizens will be charged for testing for months and months. This is important for accessibility for all, but also to ensure good efficiency through easy and fast use. It seems to me necessary to objectify the question. Moreover, the head of the Task Force Testing/Tracing indicated that the reflection was held. On what factual and quantified criteria and elements has it been decided not to reimburse these antigenic tests? With regard to the organisation of pharmacovigilance, it is known the importance of the follow-up of persons who have been vaccinated, first or second dose, and the work of the AFMPS at this level. Could you clarify, to date, how data recorded by patients are communicated to general practitioners and pharmacists? Have any procedures been adapted recently? Is there a plan to increase awareness of the encoding of effects experienced by vaccinated individuals? Finally, on the Covid Safe Ticket, how is the cooperation agreement to be implemented prepared? What method of work is in place to ensure consultation with all stakeholders, such as local authorities and police and control services, in particular with your colleague from the interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u14	Madam Chair, I refer to my question as tabled, in order to respect the minister and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u15	Minister, I refer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u16	Mr Dierick is not present in the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u17	Madam Chair, I also refer to the written version of my questions. I would like to add a few elements, and I will start with the aspects that have not been addressed by my colleagues, as we are in a topical debate. Minister, first of all, you certainly heard the news last week that a nursing home in Nivelles was faced with 12 deaths, despite a complete vaccination. The Agency for a Quality Life (AVIQ) had announced that it would conduct an investigation into this matter. It is true that this is information which circulates a great deal to citizens who are reluctant to get vaccinated, and which therefore raises questions. Do you have more information about this? Secondly, it is now clear that the vaccination rate is really too low in some municipalities. Similarly, when looking at socio-economic indicators in the municipalities in question, there is a real social divide. We have learned that some pilot projects are under way to address them, and some municipalities have taken initiatives. Have you considered how to address this gap, this vaccine inequality? Is this a matter of concern to you? Personally, I am a general practitioner and I am concerned that vaccination rates are too low in some patients where I work. For the time being, these citizens are not protected and it is of course these people who will be the first victims. In my view, this is a real public health problem. My third question is in the same direction as that asked by Mr Bacquelaine. I thought the vaccination centres were supposed to close by the end of August, at least that's what was planned in the first place. It is clear that not everyone will be fully vaccinated by the end of August. It will be necessary to count with the hesitant, with the question of possible reminders or with people who return from abroad after several months of stay and who are not yet vaccinated. Have you planned to take care of other structures for the continuation of vaccination against covid? This is a very concrete problem, since the end of August is near. Then, with regard to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, as Mrs Creemers has asked, what does it mean to be registered voluntarily for vaccination when you are not yet 41 years old? In addition, is it not problematic that the approach varies according to the regions? What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u18	Minister, I refer to the 14 questions I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u19	Minister, I only have one question today. I have recently been confronted by two different people with the question of what people should do who should not receive any covid vaccine on prescription because of the risk of a very severe allergic reaction. How can these people travel in Europe? Do they have to be tested over and over again? Do they then have to pay for those tests themselves or is a medical certificate sufficient? In all honesty, I tried to ask that question informally once, but did not get a clear answer. Some believe that there are no allergic reactions to the covid vaccine. I'm not quite sure whether it's possible or not, I suppose. If so, what solution is there to allow these people to travel within Europe in a relaxed way? Mr President, Minister, I apologise if I am not present at the answers later. I'll be back, but I also have a few questions on the Mobility Committee. Thank you in advance, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u20	Mr President, Minister, in three minutes it is not always easy to draw up a serious and consistent report of the situation. The development of the figures is favourable in Belgium. At the same time, vigilance must remain maximum, given the epidemiological evolution of the delta variant (the famous Indian variant) in the United Kingdom (98%), Portugal (96%) and Italy (26%). The figures I was able to find out about in Belgium show a 16 % sequencing, whereas this varied in the order of 5 % two weeks ago. The risk of transmission is much faster, a risk of hospitalization is four times higher compared to covid strain, with also higher mortality. What is interesting is the rate of hospitalization for patients who received two doses of vaccine (10%) and for patients who received one dose of vaccine (30%). Of course, these figures are even higher for unvaccinated patients. Therefore, the basic strategy for correct resistance is to administer two doses, even though the efficacy of the British variant or covid strain is mitigated. In Belgium, only 31% of people received full vaccination, which means that further acceleration is essential to achieve better resistance to this variant. In addition, a fourth death occurred with an adenovirus vaccine. For all these reasons, I plead for a change in the vaccination strategy, on the one hand, by advancing the second dose for all of the AstraZeneca vaccine to eight weeks instead of twelve weeks, on the other hand, by prodigying it to those who benefited at the very beginning of the injection of AstraZeneca. To date, some vaccination centres have agreed to administer them eight weeks later, but many others have refused. Should we not also consider a second dose of mRNA after an AstraZeneca vaccine in the first dose, since studies show that it is more effective against the Indian variant? A number of immunocompromised patients, including transplant patients, - I had already asked you about this but you still haven't answered - are not immune after two doses of vaccine. It is therefore vital, given the studies that are emerging, that a third dose be proposed for non-responders. It is already validated and implemented in a number of countries. They are also those patients who are most likely to be hospitalized in intensive care. Yes or no, do you now accept that these patients can, if they are non-responders, benefit from a third dose? Do you confirm to me that the vaccination schedule was finally adapted with a single injection of messenger RNA vaccine for patients cured of covid-19? I pleaded for this for a long time as well. I would also like to discuss with you the testing of holidaymakers. Last night, a general practitioner told me: "I am a doctor and not a laboratory doctor. In the morning, I sometimes have more tests to do for travellers than sick people to treat." They're overflowing, saturated. The same is true of the testing centres, even in J-10 today, future travellers are unable to make an appointment in the centres to get tested, although they had well anticipated a departure in early July. You know that I have pleaded over and over for antigenic tests outside of these places to create capacity and not saturate these centers or general practitioners with travellers. At the pharmacy level, July 12 is too late. I think we have the ability to accelerate. On the other hand, we could do so with other modalities. Finally, it is essential to introduce free testing for two antigenic tests during the summer, instead of PCR. I'm talking about people who go abroad to the countries that accept it. Minister, I will touch on two more points.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u21	Mrs. Fonck, you had four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u22	Madam President, I'm just finishing with the home nurse bonus. Some of these independents, minister, tell me that they still haven't received anything. Finally, with regard to my other questions, I refer to the texts tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u23	Madam President, first of all, I refer to my questions as they were tabled. Mr Minister, first of all I would like to comment on the decisions taken at the last Codeco. This can only be welcomed as it is really the result of our efforts and the vaccination campaign. But it must be noted that an area is still on the tile: the world of the night. In France, however, the nightclubs will reopen on 9 July 2021, as the vaccination campaign progresses slower than in Belgium and the health situation is finally more or less equivalent to that we know at home. The same applies to the Netherlands, where they will reopen on 26 June 2021. As a result, Belgians who want to party will not take it away and will do so in our neighbouring countries. This is a hypocritical and unbearable situation for the sector, especially since he had worked on a health protocol which was sent to your colleague Clarinval on 3 June 2021 and for which he has so far received no return. Mr Minister, why is this recovery of the night world still not possible in Belgium, unlike our neighbouring countries? Have you at least assessed all the risks associated with night travel in comparison with the health guarantees contained in the protocol proposed by the sector? Will this reopening be discussed at the next Codeco that was announced and to be held on July 16, 2021? What would be the possible date of resumption and the protocol? Could the covid safe ticket not be requested here, as it was planned for the festivals this summer? In France, access to discotheques will be conditional on the presentation of a health pass with either a vaccination certificate or a negative PCR test. Minister, I also wanted to ask you about the European digital certificate covid. This certificate will be reserved for vaccinated persons, persons who have a negative test carried out within 24 hours of departure, but also persons who have antibodies due to contamination during the last six months. However, the implementation of this last point seems to be delayed, given the difficulty of accurately measuring the level of antibodies and therefore of actual immunity that the person would have for several months and not for just a few days, unlike some others. Moreover, it is my responsibility that those who declared a covid before 15 June would not be entitled to this certificate, so that their only possibility would be to get tested, with the very clear risk of being declared positive, and therefore simply not being able to go on vacation. Minister, could you clarify what is in effect for those who have recently been co-viding? Do you confirm a difference in treatment between those who reported contamination before or after June 14? How do you justify it? What is concrete evidence of covid healing? Are you able to guarantee to those who go on holiday at the end of June but would return to Belgium after 1 July, after the entry into force of the certificate, that they will be able to return safely? Finally, very quickly, Madam President, the delay between the injection of two doses. It is known that it has been decided to reduce the interval between the two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. One can quite understand this in view of the need to speed up our vaccination campaign, especially in view of the virulence of the different variants. But a study has just found that a longer period of time would allow for better protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u24	Mrs Rohonyi, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u25	I come to my very short question: on what basis are the decisions to increase or shorten the time taken to administer the doses of the different vaccines taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u26	Madam President, I have to watch my watch because I would like to leave around 5 p.m. and it is now 15.15 p.m. As always, I will answer, first, the questions about the epidemic, then the questions about the disease and testing. Then I will answer the questions about vaccination. Let me begin by stressing that the vaccination campaign is progressing very quickly at the moment. We must always speak with two words, of course, because we depend on deliveries. However, if we look at this week, I note that we will be in a situation where more than 10 million doses will have been administered in Belgium. We are not yet ready, but we are likely to exceed the 10 million dose milestone this week. This week we will also exceed the 70% milestone of the population who received a first dose. We can also see that, naturally in relation to the population, we have already given more doses in this country at this time than in the United States. I will not give you these general figures to tell you that we are here. That is not the case. We need to be very aware of much of what I will tell you in a moment, refers to the fact that enough people must be fully vaccinated, i.e. with two doses of AstraZeneca, two doses of Pfizer or one dose of Johnson & Johnson. The scientists have always indicated to us that actually 70% of the entire population should be fully vaccinated as a kind of minimum guarantee of achieving group immunity. In fact, over the past few weeks, scientists have systematically argued that this 70% may not be enough when we are dealing with variants that are more contagious. Actually, we need to aim even higher. The motto is therefore to vaccinate as many people as possible in all layers of the population, in all districts, in all municipalities, in all age groups. We are not there yet, and we have a number of questions to do with this, but we have already gone a long way. I repeat, I think sometime this week we're gonna get past the 10 million doses. More than 70% of the population will have had a first dose. We have already given more doses in relation to the population than in the United States of America. So that goes well, but that is no reason for complacency. It is important, however, to strike a balance in relation to the threats I still have to deal with between the reasons for concern and unjustified concerns, such as the effectiveness of the vaccines or the nature of the variants. It is therefore necessary to be vigilant, but not to doubt the strength of what we are doing on the basis of false information. I would like to start by taking as an example the coronavirus variant that the Vietnamese authorities thought was a combination of the Indian and British tribes. It does not appear to be a new hybrid variant, but simply part of the existing Indian strain, at least according to WHO. So it's actually the delta variant already detected with some additional mutations. As far as this delta variant is concerned, we know from the latest genome sequencing data from the National Reference Centre that it is also clearly on the rise in Belgium. During the period from 31 May to 13 June, 6.1 % of the positive samples examined concerned the delta variant, which was 3.9 % in the previous period. So that's close to doubling in a short time. And it is indeed expected that in the course of July this delta variant will dominate with us too. It must be said, however, that this dominance is taking place in a context of a strongly shrinking absolute number of infections. So if we are talking about the delta variant in Belgium, we have to look at the dominance... what is the percentage presence of this variant in the observed infections? It is also true that there is a lack of information on the number of infections and, of course, the absolute number of infections. As you know, that absolute number of infections is falling very strongly at the moment. Of course, we must continue to follow very closely what is happening. We do this through the detection of clusters and through the monitoring based on genome surveillance. At the latest Consultation Committee we agreed that we will examine with the Health Ministers of the three regions whether we can extend the tracing of infected persons from 2 to 7 days before the infection. It's not obvious to go back seven days. People then have to think harder and the answers they give will not necessarily be accurate. Moreover, the question arises as to what to do with someone who had high risk contact with that person X 6 days before an infection was detected in person X. What does that mean for quarantine and such? We are currently investigating these kinds of questions, but it seems important to organise the contact tracing more closely, more intensively and more thoroughly at the time the infections are shrinking. At a time when the number of infections is falling sharply, we must in fact be even stricter than we already were for passenger traffic. I have already said it in the press: travellers coming from a number of non-European countries which we regard as 'epidemiologically disturbing', who have the nationality of one of those countries, who live there or who have even simply travelled through them, will be faced with an entry ban. Citizens of Belgium who come from one of those countries which we believe are plagued by worrying variants will have to go into quarantine for 10 days, without any possibility of reduction, and will have to be tested twice, even if they have been vaccinated. We must therefore be very vigilant, but we must not doubt the strength of the vaccines. Data from the United Kingdom show that the protection against hospitalisation after infection with the delta variant after a full vaccination with Pfizer or AstraZeneca remains above 90%, but after a single dose, the protection is less for AstraZeneca. It is only 71 %, but at Pfizer it is 94 %. It can therefore be said that this is reassuring to the extent that the population is fully vaccinated. The data relating to illness We note that after vaccination with Pfizer, 36 % of symptomatic infection is protected after one dose and 88 % after two doses. The protection against symptomatic infection for AstraZeneca is 30 % after one dose and reaches 67 % after two doses. In other words, the full vaccination works very strongly against serious consequences in the form of hospitalisation and works less strongly, especially when it comes to AstraZeneca, but still significantly with respect to a symptomatic infection. However, vaccination works significantly less when you have only had one dose, especially if you have only had one dose of AstraZeneca. The idea that we would not be armed against the Indian variant is therefore incorrect. We must explain to the public that vaccines do work if they are to be vaccinated twice and that our daily behaviour in this area remains, of course, very important. Keeping a distance and wearing a mouth mask if one cannot keep a distance are as effective against the delta variant as against the alpha variant. Of course there is an advance of the delta variant. This also underlines that we really need to combine everything: vaccinate, behave carefully and avoid the introduction of new variants as far as possible. The National Reference Centre has also developed a protocol for PCR genotyping, similar to that of France. The aim is to make the protocol available as soon as possible, first in all the laboratories of the federal platform bis, later as far as possible also in peripheral laboratories. The purpose of the protocol is to quickly know which variant it is based on a PCR test, so that the sequencing results do not have to wait. This means that one finds out more quickly whether one is dealing with, for example, a delta variant or another. I come to the questions about the residential care centers and the task force ventilation. With regard to visits to nursing homes, the RAG indicates that visitor screening is no longer useful if more than 90 per cent of residents and over 70 per cent of staff have been vaccinated. In addition, GEMS also provided advice. The final application of these councils is the responsibility of the Regions. It is true that scientific advice does not take into account the personnel who healed the covid-19. It is not yet known how long protection lasts after transmission of covid-19. Currently, the testing and quarantine guidelines provide for a 90-day period during which a person is considered to be protected after contamination. It is possible that this period may be extended to 180 days, by analogy with the European Guideline for Travellers for whom a healing certificate is said to be valid for 180 days after a positive test. This time limitation means that it is quite difficult in practice to take this into account in nursing homes because it requires an ongoing assessment for each staff member. Sustained efforts are needed to achieve high immunization coverage among staff also, in the context of the emergence of new variants against which the previous infection does not always protect. The "Ventilation" Task Force is a working group within the Higher Council of Health with the participation of several experts. Their opinions are therefore also made public via the website of the Higher Council of Health. The recommendations of the Working Group on Ventilation can be accessed through various channels such as www.infocoronavirus.be, various press conferences and links to the websites of the Employment FPS, the Economy FPS and the Public Health FPS. The SPF Emploi organized a webinar on ventilation for professionals. Posters have also been produced, and this has been included in the communication strategy as a focus for both the FPS and Infocel. The different FPSs also communicate in a targeted way with different target groups. This task force "Ventilation" implements the following projects: at a first site, how to implement the threshold of 900 ppm or 1200 ppm CO2 in all premises? In a second project, how can we promote the use of air purification and disinfection systems? Finally, in a third project, how can ventilation be supplemented by air purification? It may be useful to have a risk indicator for a certain area with a given use. Calculation models have been developed to estimate the risk of contamination. Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Depoorter, you also had questions about the end of the pandemic. The government is guided by a number of objectives, such as continued vigilance on the one hand and therefore careful monitoring and continuous strengthening of protective measures, such as testing, quarantine, source detection, genome surveillance and ventilation, and on the other hand the objective of fully vaccinating as many people as possible. We inspect and strengthen our dikes wherever possible and strive to leave no one behind in the vaccination. The government has decided to use a ministerial decision valid until 30 September as a legal framework, but to carry out a thorough review of the situation on 16 July. It is within that perspective, with an in-depth review on 16 July and a ministerial decision that we are now reviewing, with applicability until 30 September, that some of the measures already discussed and defined in the Consultation Committee on 11 May or 4 June were clarified and, to a certain extent, supplemented at the last Consultation Committee on 18 June, without abandoning the general approach, in particular the strategy of gradual, gradual and cautious relaxation. People are asking when the pandemic will be over. If the question is formulated in this way, I would like to say that this is not a political decision in the classical sense of the word. This decision will be based on an understanding that must be established at both national, European and international level on the basis of a wide range of data relating to the evolution of the pandemic itself, the severity of the consequences and the extent to which vaccination protects us. At some point, then, political decisions will have to be made, such as ending the federal phase, in which we will have to weigh up the relevant elements. In my view, this will be much more than merely ticking down a number of criteria. This will involve an overall qualitative assessment. The most important question is how and when we move from acute crisis management to a more structurally embedded and long-term risk management. The risks remain, because in any case we will continue to live with the threat of a virus and many variants of it. Mr Prévot, with regard to the problem of hearing and the link with coronavirus infections, some cases of sudden hearing loss have been reported in the scientific literature as a consequence of contamination with coronavirus, but this is extremely rare. It is certainly not true that 7 to 14% of covid-19 cases show loss of hearing. Perhaps this percentage refers to all complications related to the nose, throat and ears, including loss of smell and taste, very common symptoms in patients with covid-19, or perhaps milder and temporary symptoms such as dizziness or tinnitus, have they also been considered. In any case, there is no scientific publication confirming this high figure from 7 to 14 per cent. The conclusion is that in a person with sudden hearing loss, with no apparent cause, potential coronavirus contamination should also be considered. However, this phenomenon is too rare for the hearing of covid-19 patients to be systematically tested. Neither the Conseil supérieur des médecins spéciales et des médecins généralistes nor the Royal Belgian Society of Oto-Rhino-Laryngologie have published guidelines for the treatment of this rare disease. Mild symptoms such as dizziness or tinnitus are usually transient and do not require specific treatment. Mr Prévot, you also asked for more general figures. According to the website of the French-speaking Federation of the Deaf of Belgium (FFSB), deafness, of all types and ages, affects 8.9% of the population. This is known thanks to the overlapping of several French and Belgian sources in scientific literature. In 2016, for all 11,267,000 people in Belgium, there were 1,002,800 persons who were deaf or hard of hearing. For screening and tracing, the nasopharyngeal matrix is the reference matrix for the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2. This is the reason for the nasal choice of the PCR test. Some doctors use oropharyngeal tests, especially at the request of the patient. The latter may request that an oropharyngeal test be carried out preferably at a centre which proposes this sampling. The sampling carried out is part of good medical practice regardless of the sampling route used. For this purpose, documentation is placed on the Sciensano site for medical staff referring to it. In Belgium, strict rules apply to persons authorised to take nasopharyngeal samples. For repeated preventive tests, it is recommended to use other types of samples, such as saliva, and for other tests, clear instructions are given, as you probably know. There was also a demand for funding. Belgium has immediately shown interest in receiving its share of the EUR 100 million for the PCR tests used for travellers. The deadline to show our interest was June 10th. Sometime in July, the Commission will be able to propose a specific grant agreement to interested Member States. The information provided by the Commission shows that Member States will be able to use this financial support both for the purchase and for the operationalisation of the tests to be used for the purpose of the covid certificate. You know that for us the PCR test is the cornerstone of travel policy. We will therefore devote the financial support we will receive to this and not to the rapid antigen tests. I don't have any more information right now. The Commission has promised us very recently that it will send out the invitations of application with which we can turn our interest into an official question by the end of this week. There were questions about travel and the role of pharmacists. The Law of 13 June 2021, which provides for measures to control the COVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care, will allow for a full concession by royal decision for two PCR tests to be carried out from 1 July 2021 until 30 September 2021 at the latest. These tests can be covered by compulsory health insurance under three conditions: they must have been carried out with Belgian residents; the persons tested have not yet had the opportunity to be fully vaccinated; and the tests are carried out in a laboratory listed in Sciensano on quality control and epidemiological information flow. In practice, the concession therefore depends on obtaining a CCPC (COVID-19 Test Prescription Code), i.e. a special code issued by the Public Health Office. When providing this code, it shall be verified that the person concerned fulfils the second condition, namely that he has not yet had the opportunity to fully vaccinate, on the basis of the available data on the vaccination. These PCR tests are reimbursed to the laboratories at the same rates as the tests carried out within the test guidelines, namely €40.44 for the clinical labs and the rates set by agreement for the Federal Platform's labs. Then it is 29,96 euros or 32,96 euros for the labs of the federal platform. PCR tests for which no compensation is provided by the compulsory health insurance may be charged to the persons tested. A maximum rate of EUR 55 shall be provided for these tests, including the sampling and other costs, and EUR 120 for rapid PCR tests where the result is available three hours after the sampling. However, I would like to emphasise that tests carried out according to our existing test guidelines - symptomatic persons, high-risk contacts, pre-hospitalization and returning travellers from red zones - remain fully covered by the compulsory medical care insurance. In order to ensure sufficient steel extraction capacity this summer, additional steel extraction capacity will be required in addition to the existing test centres. Therefore, we provide for a fee of EUR 10 per sample collection, which the clinical labs can charge, only for the two PCR tests that will be reimbursed between 1 July and 30 September 2021. This additional financing for the steel extraction will allow this capacity to be increased and prevent departing passengers from finding a place where they can have a sample taken at the appropriate time before they leave or at a particular event or avoid having to knock on the door of the general practitioner to have the test taken. In addition to the two tests covered by the compulsory health insurance for medical care, additional tests may be required for travel and cultural events. Therefore, the maximum price was raised to 55 euros, so that at the top of the 40.44 euros there is still a margin for the organisation of steel collections, knowing that these tests need to be reported quickly, often in an international context and during weekends, which entails additional personnel costs. The real costs for the PCR tests vary depending on the setting of the lab. Is it automated or semi-automated? Is it an outpatient lab or a hospital? They also depend on the equipment used, the reagents, the use of personnel, the transport and of course the volume analysed. That's what explains the differences in charges between the labs. I can't calculate you an average profit margin per laboratory. Article 4 of the Law on various provisions relating to rapid antigen testing and the recording and processing of data relating to vaccination in the context of the fight against the covid pandemic of 22 December 2020 sets a maximum rate for a rapid antigen test kit at EUR 16.72. The costs for these tests also vary greatly depending on type and brand. There is no prohibition to charge additional costs to those requesting the test for sampling, for carrying out the test and for reporting the results to the tested person and to Sciensano. In general, these are time-intensive tasks in rapid antigen testing, which of course explains the higher rates. If a rapid antigen test is reimbursed by the compulsory medical care insurance, a maximum of 26.72 euros can be charged, all costs included. The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is a highly sensitive virus detection technique and is certainly not contested. This technique is much more sensitive than a rapid antigenic test. This summer's challenge to test departing travellers is not so much a lack of capacity of RT-PCRs as a lack of capacity to collect samples to test. That is why we are currently working to increase this capacity. The use of pharmacists shall be considered in a complementary manner or where necessary. Pharmacists who volunteer for this scheme would then perform a test with a rapid antigen, and not with a sampling for RT-PCRs. Testing with a fast antigen does not require specific medical skills. It is therefore not correct to say that pharmacists will be allowed to carry out actions that only doctors are allowed to carry out. It is also incorrect to say that doctors are excluded, as the possibility of being tested by a general practitioner still exists. It is in order not to overload general practitioners that alternatives are sought, at their request. Pursuant to Article 4, § 1 and 2 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 March 2021 on the processing of data relating to vaccinations against covid-19, personal data stored in the database of vaccination codes may be processed by healthcare providers in order to offer assistance in the process of inviting persons to be vaccinated against covid-19. In the commentary to the articles, it is specified that care providers who have a therapeutic relationship with the care user may, within the limits of their respective tasks, obtain the communication of the data collected on the basis of the above-mentioned cooperation agreement. Pursuant to Article 5 of the above-mentioned Cooperation Agreement, a communication requires a deliberation by the Social Security and Health Chamber of the Information Security Committee. This is a necessary and sufficient condition. The visualisation of the vaccination code database by official pharmacists for the support of the care users with whom they have a therapeutic relationship is regulated by deliberation No. 21/040 of 8 February 2021, as amended on 30 March 2021. Pharmacists with a therapeutic relationship will use the data to support their patients as part of the invitation to be vaccinated against covid-19. To this end, pharmacists need access to specific personal data that are not pseudonymized. On the other hand, personal data processed for scientific and statistical studies pursuant to Article 4(2) of the abovementioned Cooperation Agreement will generally be communicated only after anonymisation or, at the very least, pseudonymization of the data in the event that anonymisation would not allow the scientific or statistical study to be carried out. Pursuant to Article 6(1) of the above-mentioned Cooperation Agreement, the data recorded in the database of vaccination codes shall be kept for up to five days from the day following the publication of the Royal Decree announcing the end of the epidemic due to coronavirus. The data are therefore not registered with pharmacists. Pharmacists only have the opportunity to view the data of care users from the vaccination code database. In order to meet the test needs during the holiday period, a system has been put in place so that anyone who has not yet had the opportunity to be completely vaccinated can benefit from two free PCR tests, as I said, and therefore these tests can be requested via an activation code that can be generated via the website masanté.be. Medically prescribed tests for travel and cultural events will be minimal. In other cases, it is always up to the doctor to properly assess the situation, to check whether the patient completes the test instructions which are published on the Sciensano website and to write down the medical situation in the patient's medical file. To my knowledge, there is no increase in complaints concerning the requirements of complacency. Regarding detection dogs, there are a number of reasons why they are not used in the test strategy. First, there is not enough capacity to use them meaningfully. Second, dogs cannot sniff people directly. They shall sniff a cloth containing sweat taken from the persons under their armpits and placed in a place provided for that purpose by them. Finally, dogs must rest after 45 minutes. All this is therefore a little complicated and therefore, from a logistical and organisational point of view, it does not outweigh, for example, the carrying out of a rapid antigenic test. I said at the beginning of my presentation that we are passing significant milestones in terms of vaccination: 10 million doses, 70% of the entire population a first shot, more doses per capita than in the United States. We are constantly discussing the vaccination strategy with the regions and all the actors involved. In Flanders, by the end of August, people will be given an additional vaccination opportunity, in such a way that everyone has the chance to be vaccinated twice. Wallonia is already starting a ReVax campaign at the end of June and Brussels offers people a second chance to be vaccinated through its own registration system and its own approach. It is therefore doing its utmost in the regions to overcome hesitation, resistance and unfamiliarity with the vaccine. You know that at some point we decided to shorten the interval between the first and second doses of AstraZeneca from 12 to 8 weeks. We could easily decide for whom to get the first vaccine. The question of whether we will be able to do so in the future for those who have already received a first dose of AstraZeneca before mid-May raises a practical problem: they need to be rebooked, because they have already been rebooked. Perhaps the simplest solution is to tell them that they can re-register themselves via QVAX if they want to be vaccinated at a different time than planned. The most important question, however, is whether we have enough AstraZeneca doses to make that a meaningful operation, because simply moving vaccinations from one group to another, does not really help us. We are somewhat optimistic, because by the end of the month we would get more vaccines from AstraZeneca than we had hoped until recently, but I do speak with two words. If that is fully confirmed and our planners manage to organise the replanning operation properly via QVAX, many people will have to wait less than 12 weeks to get that second shot of AstraZeneca. I think this will take away a lot of discontent and frustration. That will really help our vaccination campaign. You know that we have also decided that the Johnson & Johnson vaccine may be administered to people under 41 years of age on a voluntary basis. The Länder are responsible for implementing or not implementing this. That also works through QVAX. People should read a risk-benefit analysis document and also clearly indicate that they have read it. Then you can register. In the vaccination centre, it is then explicitly asked whether additional information is required. Only then will the vaccination follow. This way of working has been legally tested and is in accordance with the law on patients' rights. It is a concrete application of the principle of informed consent, as exists for any treatment or medication. For example, the patient should always be informed about the risks. The interest is very great. Yesterday more than 92,000 people were registered on this list in Flanders, but that obviously depends on the deliveries of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Mrs Depoorter, you asked whether it would be possible to re-allocate vaccines between the regions. It is too early to say anything about this, because that depends, of course, on the facts. Will there be available stocks which are not allocated in one region and which can be allocated immediately in the other? That is not the case today. We are going to make a very thorough analysis of the vaccination campaign by the end of June, also from that perspective. It may be that at that time we decide that it is appropriate and possible to re-allocate vaccines. However, it is also possible that this will not be the case. It actually depends on whether stocks will develop in certain regions that are not allocated. We will always make such a decision in the general interest of vaccinating vulnerable people as quickly and fully as possible in all communities, social groups and age groups. As I have just said in Dutch, the Vaccination Taskforce is currently trying to make it possible to shorten the time between the two doses of AstraZeneca from 12 to 8 weeks, especially for the most at risk audiences, namely the elderly and those suffering from co-morbidities. But no decision has yet been made. This depends on operational issues, which appear to be overmountable, and the availability of vaccines; it is not about moving vaccines from one category of people who need them to another category. With regard to the four deaths that are likely related to vaccination we have seen in Belgium, these are tragic events which are extremely regrettable. Each event is passed on to pharmacovigilance and is subjected to thorough analysis with a view, where appropriate, to adapting the recommendations for the administration of the various vaccines available to us at European level. In Belgium, we have already set out new administration conditions that take into account a benefit/risk analysis for each vaccine on the basis of age groups. You can consult all of this in detail. I would also like to say that we must not forget an equally harsh reality: the covid-19 has caused more than 25,000 deaths in our country. That is precisely why vaccination remains the best protection we have to date and must remain our priority. As far as young people are concerned, the general arguments are equally relevant. I believe that it is not a question of opposing the complete vaccination of those who have already received a first dose at the beginning of the campaign to the new younger audiences, but rather of carrying out these two objectives at the same time. The evolution of the variants is unfortunately not frozen and nothing excludes new, more aggressive forms for the younger ones. This is the whole meaning of the approach taken with regard to 16-17 year olds. This entry into the 16-17 year-old campaign will not undermine the vaccination schedule of older people, as they remain conditioned by our ability to give priority to the administration of second doses, which must correspond to a certain well-defined time frame to ensure the effectiveness of vaccines. On the basis of an opinion of the Higher Council of Health, which will be given at the end of the month at the latest and the evaluation of the Task Force on Immunization, the Interministerial Conference of Public Health will take a decision on whether or not to continue the vaccination of young people aged 12 to 15. First of all, we are looking, - we can already do this week - at the vaccination of people between the ages of 12 and 15 with co-morbidities. There is a certain urgency in this area, but this is a limited number of cases. As for the general population between the ages of 12 and 15, we are still waiting for the opinion of the Higher Council of Health. Upon receipt of the report, we will discuss it in the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I will certainly not receive it until next week. I can't anticipate it either. We will only be able to discuss this at the end of the month at the earliest. The discussion on the vaccination of children aged 12 to 15 in the general population will obviously also lead us to debate vaccination in third countries, in poorer countries. It will be necessary at this time to strike a balance between our priorities and international solidarity with regard to the availability of vaccines. Let us not forget that EMA has not yet granted authorisation for the 12-15 age group and that companies still have to submit their dossiers. As long as there is no approval, this 12- to 15-year-old vaccination cannot be scheduled. Questions were again asked about the scientific basis of the vaccination priorities. I would prefer not to repeat everything that has been said in the past. The vaccination was based on age and comorbidity, but there were also social reasons such as the care staff at the start of the campaign, for the same social reasons also the police. Of course, we would like the vaccination centres to adhere to these priorities and therefore work according to age and co-morbidity at the moment. Season workers must meet the same conditions as anyone visiting Belgium and must be able to participate effectively in the vaccination campaign. No data are currently available to compare the efficacy of the different vaccines in immunocompromised patients. All vaccines available in Belgium have obtained a conditional market licence. Such a conditional market permit means that marketing authorisation holders are required to provide additional data, including on the efficacy of their vaccine in immunocompromised patients. Pfizer, for example, already has plans for a specific study in this group, which would start in September 2021. In addition, there are several non-commercial studies. In Belgium, the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE) sponsors the study BELCOVAC, which will assess the effect of a third dose of Pfizer on the immune response in immunocompromised patients. These include residents of residential care centres, patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation and patients in the oncology, nephrology and haematology departments. To date, no safety signals have been identified at European level in these immunocompromised patients. There is also no evidence of an increased risk of worsening autoimmune disease following vaccination against COVID-19. Further studies in the immunocompromised group are still ongoing. With regard to the issue of third dose administration in immunocompromised patients, I would like to inform you that KCE is studying the potential of this approach. For example, KCE received 850 Pfizer doses to study the effects on the immunity of residents of nursing homes, bone marrow transplant patients, oncology, nephrology and haematology patients. A third single injection will be given to 850 people four months after their second dose. I will not fail to keep you informed of the conclusions of this analysis once it has been completed. Regarding the mixed vaccination schedules, the large-scale IMCOVAS vaccine study will investigate whether there is a better immune response in the body after a so-called mixed injection. This study is co-financed by the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care under the direction of the University of Antwerp and in collaboration with 4 study centres. The study evaluates 12 different vaccine schedules, with the already approved vaccines being administered according to a different schedule or dose than currently prescribed. It will also evaluate schedules in which a combination of 2 different vaccines will be administered, such as AstraZeneca and Pfizer. This will provide important information on safety and immune response. The study started in May 2021, will recruit 840 people and will last for 12 months. It is premature to take decisions now, as much remains to be investigated. Furthermore, the EEA has not yet approved a mixed vaccination. This is therefore an off-label use. Mrs Fonck, you have come back to this question and I can only repeat what I have already said about it. It is therefore necessary to read the opinion of the Higher Council of Health which, on the one hand, says that, in fact, if you have been infected, only one dose of two-dose vaccines is sufficient to ensure sufficient protection, which is correct. On the other hand, we cannot deduce from the same opinion a board which, from an organisational point of view, would be in line with a reorganization of our vaccination campaign on this basis. Therefore, I personally read this opinion in the sense that, from an organizational point of view, the recommendation is to remain in a two-dose strategy. The organisational problem is to link both individual data on positive tests, and thus a healing certificate, with vaccination invitation data, which is complicated, especially since we have limited the retention of this data – positive tests – to a period of six months due to data protection and privacy requirements. So we're, as always, a little stuck. Indeed, reasons for the protection of private data imply that the data concerned must disappear after six months. For this reason, these data are obviously no longer available and can therefore no longer be used after this period. This is somewhat a dilemma that is not the only reason why we persist in saying that the vaccination campaign is organised on the basis of a general two-dose rule, but it is an element that nevertheless also plays. I would add that from a scientific point of view, there are still changes in knowledge and understanding, also with regard to the period during which contamination has this positive effect that in combination with a first dose of a vaccine, there is sufficient protection. But all this remains subject to study and debate. Mrs Sneppe and others, not for the first time questions are being asked here about Sputnik and other vaccines. The application for a marketing authorisation via the so-called rapid rolling review of 1 month for the Sputnik vaccine is still ongoing. The EEA can only communicate on this subject after an opinion has been formulated by the Committee for Human Medicinal Products (CHMP). What we are doing will depend on the EEA and, of course, on the vaccines that are already available at that time. A rolling review of the CureVac vaccine is underway within EMA. This review is the last step before a formal application for marketing authorisation is submitted. Once the formal application has been filed, the EMA will issue a notice. The EMA is still awaiting the final data and analysis of the CureVac vaccine for the evaluation. The firm plans to complete the analysis of the data for the final phase of the study in the coming weeks. The contract signed with CureVac was an advance purchase contract with an obligation to purchase. Mrs Depoorter, you have put your finger on this point. This obligation is linked to the condition that CureVac obtain a marketing authorisation for its vaccine by the European Commission. If the vaccine is not authorised in Europe, Belgium will therefore not have to buy it. If he's allowed, we'll have to pay. Fortunately, we took a cautious decision not to buy the whole lot to which we were entitled on a pro rata basis. We made a small calculation of the risks and, as a precaution, we decided to buy a minimum dose of vaccine. The problem also lies in the fact that the EMA has not set a minimum level of efficiency for its approval. Indeed, the EMA examines the overall balance between the safety and efficacy of each vaccine individually before concluding that the vaccine is approved or not. So we are really waiting for more information. Drug developers must design studies to demonstrate an efficacy rate of at least 50%. But, with regard to the objective we pursue, namely the vaccination of our population, the results of CureVac will fortunately have no influence whatsoever on the course of the vaccination campaign. According to Sciensano, there are no available data or ongoing studies on the efficacy or safety of administration of another vaccine after the CureVac vaccine. However, studies are under way on mixed regimens of CureVac-like RNA vaccines and viral vector vaccines in different countries. A comprehensive overview of available data on mixed diets is currently being compiled, at our request, at the level of the Higher Health Council. You will also follow the saga about Johnson and Johnson in the press. To date, the FDA has already released two batch drug substance from Johnson & Johnson because they were found to be compliant in the investigation following possible infection with AstraZeneca's vaccine. One of the tickets was also partly intended for the EU and therefore for Belgium. The vaccines of that fate were already distributed in Belgium. We have also taken note of the FDA's decision to extend the expiry date of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine at 2 to 8°C from three months to four and a half months for the two previously mentioned lots. However, the FDA's decision on the expiry date concerns only the vaccines intended for the US. There the vaccines concerned were proactively thawed pending a decision on conformity, which threatened to exceed the three-month shelf life in thawed condition. That decision was therefore not taken at Belgian level. Such a decision is not necessary here either, because the problem of shelf life here does not arise as the vaccines are not thawed pro-actively. We know that the shelf life of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine is two years. Mrs Zanchetta, with regard to the AstraZeneca vaccine, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has indicated that this is a misunderstanding. EMA reiterates that a marketing authorisation has been granted for the AstraZeneca vaccine and that the vaccine has a positive benefit/risk balance. Therefore, the vaccine may continue to be used in accordance with the summary of product characteristics. At this stage, EMA has not reviewed its recommendations for the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which to date remains recommended for people 18 years of age and older. We have decided, on the basis of a benefit/risk analysis, to limit its administration to people aged 41 and over. No discussions related to these conditions are currently being conducted across our country. I repeat that AstraZeneca remains a vaccine that offers truly optimal protection against the virus and its various variants if two doses are given. It's essential. We are still at a stage where we are evolving from what EMA describes as a medium-risk situation to a low-risk situation within the framework of the benefit-risk balance. When you look at the figures, it is clear that at this point, inviting as many citizens as possible to be vaccinated remains in order. As far as adverse reactions are concerned, the EEA is aware of cases of myocardiitis and pericarditis that were mainly reported after vaccination with Pfizer. The EEA has asked the MAHs Pfizer and Moderna, which are also authorisation holders for a mRNA vaccine, to provide further detailed data, including an analysis of events based on age and gender, as part of the following summary safety report on the pandemic. The EEA will assess the need for other regulatory measures. It will also continue to communicate if new information is available, which is not yet the case today. There seems to be some confusion about the responsibility for side effects. If someone who has been vaccinated gets a serious side effect, gets sick and needs to be cared for, then our society bears the costs in solidarity through health insurance. That's the essence. There is no legal responsibility of the government towards such a person when it comes to side effects that could occur with the normal and proper use of the vaccine. The question is whether the vaccine has been properly used, according to the package leaflet, and correctly administered. It is not the case that, in such a case, public authorities would have an additional obligation to pay compensation. What we do have to do is, of course, take care of the people at the expense of the community, which, of course, is also happening. Several actions have been carried out at European level, between the Commission and the Member States, in order to harmonise the whole problem of travel, free movement and tourism. On 14 June, the Union promulgated the Regulation governing the European Union Digital Covid Certificate, previously known as the Digital Green Certificate. Now we say "the covid certificate", after negotiations in record time within the Council and with the European Parliament. The certificate facilitates and harmonises travel arrangements within the European Union, especially with a view to summer holidays. In addition to this regulation, the Commission has also negotiated a series of important recommendations. Council Recommendation 2020/1475 of 13 October 2020 concerns a coordinated approach to restricting free movement in response to the pandemic. It sets out common criteria, mapping of risk areas and common thresholds for Member States in order to take decisions on the health crisis. An amendment to this October recommendation was published in February 2021 and received reference 2021/119. Then, on 16 June, a new Council recommendation was issued for a coordinated approach. This is Council Recommendation 2021/961 of 14 June amending Recommendation 2020/4075. Belgium's approach is largely in line with this new recommendation. This whole range of European instruments will allow for near-harmonisation, but not full harmonisation, alas, of the health rules applicable when travelling between Member States. As you know, we are introducing new rules for our country on the basis of legislative work by the regions in relation to entry into our country. Those rules will be implemented practically through the covid certificate. Whoever downloaded the app on the smartphone knows that the CovidSafe app has been available since 16 June 2021. In the meantime, I hope that people will understand that, on the one hand, there is the CovidSafe app, that is, an ordinary application and information medium, and, on the other hand, a policy that the Member States are pursuing with regard to what is contained in that information. That policy is about whether or not people are allowed in their country. To implement this policy, we will have two applications: the CovidSafe app for citizens and an application to scan the certificates. Scanning means that through the scan application you can see whether or not someone can enter the country. I would like to emphasise that people who are digitally less skilled can always ask for help. They can make a call to a call center. Anything can be delivered on paper, except the test certificate. We do not give that on paper, because it is only valid for a very limited number of days or hours. Today, the existing rules apply. That means quarantine for those returning from a red zone and being tested on days 1 and 7. From 1 July 2021 we will ease those rules and also work for travellers from a red zone on the basis of the covid certificate and the rules applicable to them. You know them. You can enter the country with a negative PCR test not older than 72 hours or with a recovery certificate or with a vaccination certificate. However, you must have been fully vaccinated for two weeks. The certificate is drawn up in four languages, in English and the three national languages. Mrs Jiroflée has put on the table a delicate problem for which I unfortunately do not have a good solution. However, it is better to admit that honestly. Suppose someone is not vaccinated after consultation with the doctor, for example because of the risk of allergic reactions. Such a person will let his invitation pass and the system will register that one has not been vaccinated. In that case, that person will have to pay effectively for a PCR test to go abroad. To be honest, I do not see an easy solution to this at the moment. Let us hope that the problem does not occur too often, partly because there may be a situation in which Belgium will be regarded by many other countries as a safe country from which to enter. That depends, of course, on our collective effort. In this case, the problem becomes less serious, like other problems associated with the use of a covid certificate. However, if Belgium is a country for which other countries require a covid certificate to grant access to their territory, then these people have a problem. They will then have to take a PCR test which, unfortunately, will be paying in the current state of our approach. Mrs Merckx mentioned the funding and the patents. I can only repeat what has been said about this in the past. The Prime Minister has explained our policy in various international fora. He has indicated that we also have a very open attitude when there are convincing arguments on the table to look at property rights and patents differently. If this is necessary to allow less developed countries to vaccinate on a large scale, then we are open to it. You know that Belgium has already made a more than proportional effort to supply vaccines to developing countries under COVAX. We do more than our normal part, but that's what we like to do. Minister Kitir has already explained that to the public. We remain a partner in all possible international fora to discuss and reflect on new initiatives. As far as vaccination is concerned, I can repeat that the ministers responsible in the regions are making extremely great efforts to reach groups that are more difficult to reach. Sciensano is currently preparing a thematic report on immunization coverage among healthcare professionals residing in Belgium, which is scheduled to be published in early July. As at 31 May, immunization coverage for at least one dose reached a national average of 73.5%. As of the same date, only 58 per cent of the population was fully vaccinated. However, administration of the second doses was still ongoing. Since the acceptance rate of second doses is high, we believe that our goals can be achieved. For the staff of the nursing homes, we refer you to the thematic reports on the surveillance of vaccination against covid-19 in nursing homes, available on the Sciensano site. As of 24 March 2021, their immunization coverage ranged from 47% to 65% in MR-MRS dependent on Brussels, the German-speaking Community and the Walloon Region, and reached 86.5% in MR-MRS dependent on Flanders. This is an important difference, which dates back to the beginning of the campaign. One can hope that one day it will change too. Mrs. Fonck, you asked me about Doclr. There have been two leaders of Doclr since its creation on September 22, 2017: Yves Langeraert and Niels Schroyen. According to the Act of Incorporation published in the Belgian Moniteur, there are three shareholders, Niels Schroyen (15%), Helena Claes (10%) and Yves Langeraert (75%). The contract is a service contract approved by Smals through a negotiated procedure without prior publication, in accordance with the law. The specifications were sent on 11 January 2021 to nine companies that all have experience in booking software: Afspraken.be, Corilus, Doclr, Doctena, Golazo Sports, Introlution, Medici-MTC, MediPortal and Progenda. Three of them submitted an offer for January 18, 2021, the closing date for the submission of the offer, namely Doclr, Doctena and Medici-MTC. The criteria set out below are the factors which have taken place in the evaluation of the value of tenders: administrative and commercial conditions (10%), the degree to which requirements are met (35%), the time to be put into production and the availability of the solution (25%), the price (30%). The award of the contract was submitted and approved by CIM Public Health on 20 January. Following this approval, Smals formally awarded the contract. The specifications provide for a 99.5% availability which Doclr has undertaken to comply with via their offer, ensuring even 99.99% availability. Penalties are laid down in the specification for non-compliance with these criteria. The chosen registration system is available up to 24 months per 100,000 to 250,000 vaccinations per day. The cost of the single project was estimated at €43,600 excluding VAT and a monthly cost of €13,620 to €18,920 excluding VAT calculated on the basis of 100,000 vaccinations per day. An additional budget of EUR 20 000 for the exchange request on the registration system is foreseen. The maximum amounts are 262,260 euros in 2021 and 247,040 euros in 2022 excluding VAT. Compared to the services provided by the registration system in the specifications, it was necessary to supplement the services provided with additional elements in order to achieve an integrated system, mainly the development of the invitations component and a ticketing system for large cities, and to continue an accelerated vaccination campaign, with production exceeding 250 000 invitations or reservations per day and up to 350 000. The final difference between the actual and estimated total market value will only be known at the end of the general vaccination campaign. Mrs Muylle, I now come to your question. 55018565. I understand the concern of the profession of aid workers and ambulance workers, and I would like to take steps to ensure that the whole sector evolves in a favourable way in the future. Although Belgium was a pioneer in 1964 with regard to urgent medical care, we were the first country in the world to have recourse to medical assistance through a uniform call system.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I asked the administration to prepare such a recognition decision. A working group of the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance, supported by the administration, is currently discussing the details of the decision together with the sector. However, this is only the first step in the real recognition of the sector of urgent medical assistance and the people working in that sector. As regards the federal government's financial compensation for urgent medical assistance during the covid pandemic, an additional budget of EUR 8 million was injected once in 2020 within the allowances to the ambulance services. In addition to this EUR 8 million subsidy, we have also decided to cover the costs of interhospital transport as a result of the covid pandemic and the disinfection costs of the ambulances from the hospital budget. Since the pandemic is not yet over, the settlement of this compensation has not yet been completed, but I can tell you that as an advance about EUR 1 million has been entered within the budget and has already been paid in. The distribution of resources under the social agreement and expenditure within the Health Care Staff Fund are traditionally the subject of agreements between the social partners. The covid premiums, to which you refer in your question, were also awarded in consultation with the sector. The problem you raise in your question goes beyond the federal perspective. The federal level is responsible for emergency medical care. Call it the 911. It is also responsible for personnel operating within the sector. In this respect, we call the aid worker-ambulancier a profession registered in the chapter of nurses in the health professions. The Landes are responsible for all non-112-sickness transport. The staff working within that sector are called the ambulances. They are registered in the paramedical professions within the health professions. I'm not qualified for that profession. So I can't get the necessary recognition. I also note that today we have a regulation of the non-112-sickness sector in Flanders and Wallonia, but not yet in Brussels. As there is not yet regulation everywhere, it is not now possible to define, for example, intermediate services, which mainly do not carry out-112-sickness transport, but which also ensure time-critical and urgent transport. In addition to this type-service bridge, I am convinced that bridges must be built between the professions. I have therefore asked the administration to include both professions, namely the aid worker and the ambulance worker, within the same chapter of health care legislation, in order to simplify the construction of these bridges. As regards the involvement of front-line professionals in the vaccination campaign, front-line professionals maintain an important relationship of trust with patients. It is precisely in this capacity that, on both the French and Dutch sides, they have integrated specific working groups that have worked over the past few months to identify the actions to be taken to make them the perfect ambassadors of vaccination to their patient. With respect to vaccine administration, the relationship of confidence between a physician and his or her patient does not necessarily involve the administration of a dose of a vaccine. It also involves advising the patient to be vaccinated or, more simply, to be vaccinated. Moreover, in comparison with the strategies developed by the other Member States, our country's vaccination results suggest that we have adopted the right strategy. It allows for massive vaccination of our fellow citizens as soon as possible. It is not appropriate at this stage to make any changes in its administration. However, as you point out, vaccination centres are not intended to last longer than is necessary to achieve a maximum level of vaccination across the country. It is precisely for this reason that we are now working on the implementation of a new phase of vaccination, in the event of a resurgence of the pandemic. In this regard, pharmacists and general practitioners who come together in practice will have a leading role in the administration of vaccines. Several scenarii are being analysed, but it is still too early to mention the model that will eventually be retained. As our country's ranking on a European scale shows, the use of the vaccination centre to ensure the rapid administration of coronavirus vaccines has proved to be a healthy choice. However, these vaccination centres are not intended to continue, as I have just said. To sum up, representatives of the first line - both pharmacists and general practitioners - are involved in consultations on the role they must play in the coming phases. So I cannot go into the details at the moment because the debates are under way, but I think we can be satisfied with the organisation of the campaign so far. Of course, in subsequent phases, this organization will have to change and involve first line providers. On 23 January 2021, the National Council of the Order of Physicians issued an important opinion on the ethical aspects of the vaccination programme. In this opinion, the Order welcomes the willingness of the medical profession to be vaccinated. According to a survey conducted in January 2021, 91% of the medical staff, 97% of whom advise their patients on the vaccine. The Order will respond firmly to the dissemination of information that is not consistent with the current state of science. The physician must take into account the health status of the patient and properly inform the patient for the purpose of informed consent. Physicians also have a duty to closely monitor possible side effects and report them immediately to the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products. The legislation provides for the necessary mechanisms to analyse each situation and ensure a balance between several important principles. Article 32 of the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions guarantees the autonomy of the doctor and the healthcare professional in choosing the means to be implemented, which contributes to a relationship of trust with the patient that can rely on objective advice. The same article provides that the abuse of liberty generally enjoyed by doctors and health professionals is punished by the Council of the Order. Freedom of diagnosis and therapy is therefore not absolute freedom, it is freedom in the interest of the patient and respect for the professional diligence of the doctor. Each individual situation will have to be analysed to confirm whether or not a problem arises, for example because opinions have no scientific basis. The rights of defence of the care professional must be respected, inter alia, the principle of contradiction. But action can be taken when necessary. The same principles of professional diligence will apply to all health professionals. I've given answers on several occasions about long covid. Sometimes it's hard to get the same questions over and over again. These things don't go so fast. With regard to long covid, let me start by saying that we have projects both in the field of medical practice and in terms of costs and reimbursements, and in terms of patient experience. As far as medical practice is concerned, a project has been launched with the aim of developing guidelines of good practice in primary care and rehabilitation. That report should be submitted by May 2022. Also with regard to medical practice, a screening tool is currently being developed in consultation with academic hospitals and general practitioners' organisations in order to better identify post-covid patients so that people who experience long-term symptoms due to covid are transferred to the second line more efficiently, faster and properly. The scientific literature is in full development. When that screening tool is in place, it will need to be further developed. There is the ongoing study in consultation with patient organisations on the impact of long-term covid on costs. I have already said that, in an initial approach, the maximum invoicing as a protection system appears to be adequate. However, we know that the maximum invoice only works for costs included in the refund scheme. People may have to deal with costs, for example for vitamins prescribed by doctors, who are not in the refund and are therefore not included in the maximum invoice. That is something I am looking at and I would like to take initiatives on. That's what we're looking at. A question has been asked about the HELICON project. The HELICON project is a BELSPO project, coordinated by Sciensano, supported by the VUB, UGent, UCLouvain and KU Leuven. Based on data links, this project will chart the long-term impact of the corona crisis over the next four years, in particular the social inequalities in the burden of disease caused by covid. My policy cell maintains permanent contact with the people of the HELICON project. Furthermore, we try to immediately make available the reports coming from several ongoing projects via a special website of the Knowledge Centre, in such a way that follow-up is possible. That's all under development. One runs as fast as scientific and administrative as possible. However, for those who suffer from long-term effects of covid, I understand that this is a slow grinding machine that does not immediately respond to a great deal of human suffering and social problems. We are constantly working on it in the various administrations, the RIZIV, the FOD and my policy cell, also in consultation with the patients, and I also think it is important that this happens. Madam President, I have answered all the questions. I see it's 4:50 in the meantime, with my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u27	Colleagues, I understand the Minister has to leave at 5 p.m. We still have ten minutes left for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u28	Minister, I would like to return to the end of the pandemic. You say that it is not a purely political decision, that many elements must be taken into account, both national and international. In my view, that is a political decision at first, because it is a question of what risk we want to accept. There is no zero risk. So decisions are going to have to be made. It is also important that they are communicated and that everyone knows what we are working towards. I also hope that consideration has already been given to the level of threat we are pursuing. On the one hand, there is indeed the risk of serious diseases, which must be placed on the scale. On the other hand, the importance of standardisation must also be placed in this scale, because all these measures have a major impact on our society. I hope that there is already an idea on this, at least as to what will bring about the end of the epidemic. You talked about the PCR genotyping protocol. You said this would go to the test platform bis first before it went to the other labs. I don't quite understand. Moreover, I have not yet received an answer on the funding of the federal testing platform nor on the importance of serological tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u29	Minister, you spoke about legal responsibility, but you did not talk about the financial consequences of a possible death complaint. To what extent can the government be held responsible in the event of death for the financial consequences of this death? I thought I didn't get an answer to the question of how many of Roche's CoV-2 tests would have been ordered in the joint procurement and how much budget was provided for it. At the relocation, you mentioned the number of vaccines that have not yet been identified. In Brussels there are 45,000. They're a sure thing. That should certainly be considered. You have not answered the question about how we are gradually getting out of the crisis and, if necessary, to scale it up in the event of an emergency. I also thought that you did not answer the question about voluntary allowances and parental leave. That really is a problem that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u30	The volunteer allowance wasn't on this agenda. Maybe that was on the other committee. Still, there's gonna be that compensation. It has been promised that this voluntary allowance will be adjusted. She will be executed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u31	I would have liked to come back and have an exchange of views with the Minister, but he has not answered many of my colleagues' questions, including the evaluation of the measures taken and also the new study which really supports the fact that sport is an important protective factor in corona and so on. It is a pity that the Minister does not answer our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u32	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. The discussion on the balance between international solidarity and our own vaccination rate will undoubtedly be full in the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. However, I would like to return to the issue of international solidarity. It is not just a question of solidarity, but also of the international character of this virus. There is no point in obtaining an almost complete vaccination rate in Belgium, if the rest of the world is not protected: this committee would continue to have to address the emergence of new variants. It is also about efficiency. I therefore hope that you will take this into account in your discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u33	Minister, thank you. I understand that at this stage you have not been able to provide specific answers to some of my questions. It is true that the situation is changing much less quickly than we would like. It is understandable, therefore, that you cannot answer any questions that may arise as to the number of doses of vaccine that will be required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u34	Thank you for your answers, Minister. It is good news that the vaccines also work against the Indian variant. We already knew that, but it is good that you said that explicitly. I am also pleased that you do not bet on one horse. You say that you will not only vaccinate, but that you will continue to use contact tracing and testing for Indian and other variants. The only question I ask myself is how you treat safe behavior against the announced relaxations. I'm afraid the spirit is out of the bottle and you won't get it in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u35	Thank you, Minister. You see a problem with people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons and say that those people themselves will have to pay for their PCR test. I don't really see what the problem is. Why can't these people get a doctor's certificate that they can't be vaccinated for medical reasons? Why can't that be legal? Where there's a will, there's a way. I'll stay with the GPs. My question about the treatment of early covid has not been dealt with by you. You have answered some of the other questions, but you have not touched them at all. However, it is a pertinent question from certain general practitioners who want to help patients, but apparently they are not allowed to do so. Where is their therapeutic freedom to use certain means? That is contrary to the Hippocrates' oath, in which they have committed themselves to helping the sick. I am very sorry that you do not find it bothering to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u36	Minister, thank you. With regard to my question on databases for pharmacists, the vote on the cooperation agreement took place at last week's plenary session. I hope that harmonisation at European level with the Covid Safe Ticket will help avoid the problems encountered during stopovers with the length of time between the last PCR test and the different journey from country to country. If that is not the case, I hope that you will make sure that you resolve this point like the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u37	Minister, you did not answer at all the question about the Nivelles nursing home, which suffered twelve deaths despite a complete vaccination. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u38	Mrs Merckx, can you repeat your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u39	You did not answer my question about a retirement home in Nivelles where 12 deaths occurred, despite a full vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u40	I did not reply because I do not yet have the elements of analysis. I'm obviously aware of the fact, but I don't have the analysis. Before I say anything about that, I must have a very thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u41	I hope you will follow that up properly. The effect of the vaccination centres will normally end at the end of August. You vaguely said that it would be necessary to switch to the general practitioners and possibly the pharmacists. You have also been very vague about the people who will not have been vaccinated by the end of August, and that worries me a bit, because everyone knows that September is a busy month for the general practitioners and pharmacists, for all healthcare professionals. I am afraid that we are not yet far enough away in this area and that you are not voting in favour of the extended opening of vaccination centres. You were very vague about that too, and I am concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u42	Minister, I come back to some important points. You tell us that, in interpreting the figures, account must be taken of the dominance of the variation and the absolute number. Let me add a fundamental element. It is important to consider the type and characteristics of the variants, since in this case the Delta variant has a risk of transmission that is increased by 50% and a risk of hospitalization that is 2.5 times higher. These are major elements. The others are not enough. With regard to vaccination and administration of the second eight-week dose of AstraZeneca, do you know that a series of vaccination centres already accept and organise it without any problems? We have to move on. It's not just a matter of dissatisfaction with people. It is a matter of public strategy to have complete vaccination as soon as possible. The centres do not do so today because they do not have the permission of the ministers. Seriously, we have to move forward and allow it! Logistically, that's not a problem at all. Similarly, for cured covids, you hide behind organizational problems. I see that many countries are doing this and that at the level of vaccination centres it is quite possible from individual points of view. That would allow us to release doses. We could then accelerate to protect people who are not yet vaccinated today. Again, in a race against the clock against the Delta variant, this has a huge added value. Still with regard to vaccination, there is a wide range of publications on immunocompromised persons at the international level. Therefore, waiting for the results of a KCE study to give a third dose in non-responders, especially in transplant patients, is a real problem given their fragility. Finally, I will end by insisting on testing. In fact, general practitioners are under pressure and some testing centres refuse, including by the beginning of July, because they are already complete. With respect to home nursing co-vid bonuses, you didn't answer me. A whole series of them still haven't received anything and I admit I don't understand why. The promises made must be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic523x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for being here. A further meeting is scheduled on 13 July, probably the last on this subject for the recess.
