ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u2	Madam President, I did not understand that the suspension was suspended for technical reasons at the request of the services. I would therefore like to apologize for my protest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u3	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u4	Madam President, Minister, it is 04.07 p.m., there is not a lot of people left, but that really doesn't matter. You haven't been here yet, but there hasn't been much talk of justice today. Despite the efforts of many, Justice has been out of balance for quite some time. During the previous legislature, with Minister Geens, with much less resources than you are now getting, we tried to turn that tanker slightly, but that turn must of course be taken further, because the challenges in the field of justice are particularly great. Last year there was also a policy statement and a budget, but that was rather a technical budget at the time, and in March, April and May it was still so. Now, however, there is a real budget for it. We have also discussed this in committee. There is a real budget for it and it is necessary. Your policy paper, which is linked to it, is full of plans and ambitions, and they need money, that is clear. Unlike your colleague from the Home Office, you did get more money. It's more money than ever before for the Justice Department, by the way. However, that also means that you will not be able to hide anymore. A lot is expected of you now, too. Not only do you have plans and ambitions, but you now also have the means to implement them in part. Announcements alone will therefore no longer suffice. Mr Minister, we are of course only at the end of 2021, but for me the shoe is still pinching. I'd like to explain. There are more resources for justice, but when we look at your measures and the legislative work, we see that they are in many respects at odds with the announcements you made, in particular with the promised penalty rate and faster Justice. You have announced with a lot of bombs to carry out all the punishments, including the short ones. It was one of your first headlines. However, the law that should make this possible, the law on external legal status, has already been postponed twice, now to June 2022. The result is impunity, because these short sentences are not being carried out in the meantime. The probationary period is shortened. The attorney general's advice was negative, but that law was recently passed here, majority against opposition. That probation's been cut short. The week in committee we discussed the penalties with delay, in the context of sexual criminal law, to which it is added with an amendment. Colleagues, the suspended sentence, the penalty with delay, a sentence that is not being carried out, will from now on always be possible, without any threshold and regardless of the previous convictions. I'm supposed to think of that as "going to carry out more punishments"? The autonomous probation, electronic monitoring, working time: all these possibilities are being extended. Of course, it is not wrong that this can be done, but it is also easy, Mr Minister, because you are therefore taking a part of the responsibility for the execution of penalties further to the regions. There have also been interventions in prisons due to corona, such as early release, interruptions of sentences, extended leave. Apart from the corona story, structural legislative initiatives were also taken to reduce penalties. You are doing this, Minister, because you do not have the capacity to carry out those penalties, nor do you manage to provide for that capacity. The overcrowding will solve you earlier today by simply not locking up the convicts anymore. But instead of adapting the number of prisoners to capacity, you need to increase capacity. That is a core task of the government. But this overcrowding, Minister, do not take it upon yourself. However, this is really necessary in the short term, because the situation on the ground is very serious: strike announcements, prisons in which the prisoners are almost literally stacked together, mayor refusing to include new prisoners. In Antwerp alone, there are over 700 people in prison for 435 people. What's your reaction to that? You're betting on detention homes. I am in favour of detention homes, as you know, and you are announcing 15 of them by the end of this term of office. But for the time being, at best, there will be two. One detention house offers 20 to a maximum of 60 places. You're certainly not gonna come up with that. As far as transition houses are concerned, you had two of them, but one is closed: no solution either. The master plan for extra prisons could provide a solution, but we are still waiting to update it, and the first new prison will not open until the autumn. You always say that in 2024 there will be net 1128 cells. The overpopulation is now there, in December 2021. We need these places now, Minister, and other short-term solutions. But what I noticed is that you are keeping a very great silence. What I noticed more: when Mr Goffin asked during the discussion of the policy paper in committee what your top five was for 2021 and what your top five were of achievements that you really want to deliver in 2022, you responded cleverly. You gave up five dots for 2022. First, you called it sexual criminal law, but before that, we've already done most of the work. Then you mentioned the road safety section, which we will be voting on tomorrow morning: we can debate it again within a few hours, Mr Minister, so you can already check it out. Furthermore, you mentioned detention homes, which I have already indicated are not so easy at the moment. You completed the top five with the criminal record and a better care for the interned. The latter would still be wrong, because you still catch them in prison despite convictions. However, the real problem of overpopulation, which is now very acute, is not in your top five. Apparently, you prefer to release people, give favors or alternative punishments. Flemish minister Demir made the alarm this week, because the previous state reform gave powers to the regions, but without having followed the budgets, which prevented Minister Demir from following. So you must also take responsibility for yourself. There are alternatives. It is a pity that Mr De Vriendt is no longer here to discuss it. Even if I do not have to do so as an opposition member, I will list the alternatives. For example, additional capacity can be achieved by renting a prison, as has happened in the past in the Netherlands. This week you said that this cannot be done, because it takes a year for that to be settled. But a year ago we proposed to you to hire additional capacity, so your counter argument does not apply now. Another alternative is a better distribution between north and south, because the figures show differences. Foreign inmates can let you serve their sentence in their own country. In the previous government, Theo Francken and Koen None have done so for about 1,600 inmates a year. That counts, because that is more than the 1,228 extra cells you will have at your disposal in 2024. Why don't you go on that road? Maybe your Vivaldic colleagues won't let you do it, or maybe you won't. You have a mouth full of licks, but where do you stand with that policy? You like to promise that, even if you can't do it with the prison capacity, but with fines you can. It is very easy to collect fines from citizens. I don't think that's wrong, because anyone who commits an offence may be fined, but I do see a contrast. I think it's wrong that it can be so easy. The crossborder system raises $100 million. The National Security Office, on which I will go into more detail later, is actually nothing more than a collection agency. The 10 % of crossborders that you have not yet received, you will now try to collect with three magistrates and many administrative staff. For that you create a separate parquet. However, you do not do that for sexual criminal law or for financial crimes. We discussed last week that financial and tax fraud is not a priority. However, it is still unclear to me where the large profits are in terms of workload and priorities. You can also bet on better execution of capital punishment, but you do not, nor is it in your top five. An increase in the chance of getting caught, which can really mean the difference, is not in your top five either. I would like to mention one more element about the operation of the justice system. You still have money to recruit full staff and magistrates, which I think is very good, but we have to put those people in the places where they are needed. This requires a workload measurement. You announced that this workload measurement would be ready in January 2022, so that the staff can finally be properly allocated, not according to lobbying, but where it is needed. At the committee meeting on Monday, however, you replied that the College of the courts and courts is still determining the parameters and looking at the policy areas. So, the workload measurement is still not ready, so we still do not know where the backlog is greatest, where the need is greatest and where staff need to be deployed. And that is not serious, Minister. After all these decades, you should know that. You have received a lot of extra money to do a lot, Minister, and that is good. You have also spent extra resources. Just extra money isn't enough, the spending counts. I'll spend it. With promises alone you will not make it, Minister, you must make it happen now. But you have taken a very bad start, because despite your slogan about a criminal justice system, you have actually only done the opposite in the past year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u5	Mr Minister, it is not really a serious matter that a department as important as Justice should be discussed at this very hour. This also applies, among other things, to Home Affairs and Social Security. In any case, in the Committee on Justice we were given the opportunity to discuss everything in detail and in detail. I shall therefore confine my speech to the points that are important to our group. Minister, you are very ambitious. You have very big plans. Our group can - and I have said this a number of times - support a large part of it. But it is very important that you actually realize and implement these plans. How you want to do that is not always clear. However, there is a great deal of work to be done, because the public's confidence in justice remains low. You want to restore faith in justice by making what you call justice faster, more human and more criminal. We often hear from you many positive promises and a lot of roaring announcements. But I hope you are aware, first of all, that despite the considerable increase in your resources, which you have obtained, for which I congratulate you, that is not enough to realize everything you announced. Secondly, you are facing a serious personnel problem. You want to recruit more staff in various areas: 1,400 new talents for 2022. But the question is, where will you find all these specialized people? Justice must once again become an attractive employer. It is therefore important that you keep your ear on the ground on a continuous basis. With the announced employee branding alone you will not get there. There must be a strong response to the high workload. You must also work on a new social statute for the magistrates. This new statute must certainly be introduced for the penitentiary staff, who have given the best of themselves in the last year under very difficult circumstances, which is not always a matter of course. I therefore hope that you will make a very great effort to develop a more modern staffing and recruitment policy. Minister, modern and adapted courthouses and new prisons are also needed in order to increase capacity significantly and thus finally tackle the overpopulation. I wish you every success in that. Only doubt is there any budgetary feasibility of the projects announced. After all, your list is very extensive. Even if you invest your entire additional budget in these projects, coupled with the efforts of the Buildings Regie, you will not be there. I would like to say nothing about the efforts to be made to overcome the backlog in maintenance and renovation. Minister, digital justice must also be addressed, and rightly so. At Justice there is a need for a digital transition. It is not new, but our country is one of Europe's most disadvantaged countries in terms of digitalisation of justice. That is how the European Commission found out. You must also do something very urgently about this. Minister, justice must also become more human. Accessibility needs to be improved. The second-line legal assistance system has already improved, but the work is not finished. There should be a single point of contact for the application for legal aid and second-line legal assistance. There are other alternatives to making justice more attractive and accessible. For example, we are thinking of reducing VAT from 21% to 6% on lawyers' invoices and encouraging legal aid insurance. Mr. Secretary of State, justice must above all become more punitive. You have announced a lick-on-piece policy. Indeed, the public expects justice to act swiftly and decisively against all forms of crime. She must take firm action against street crime, shoplifting, intra-family violence and juvenile crime, and not just against it. A lick-on-piece policy must be put in place for all forms of crime, including serious crime. We are thinking, for example, of organized crime, drug crime and financial and fiscal fraud. Our party has been an advocate for a speedy settlement of these crimes for years. Minister, you will find an ally in us to make that happen. Mr. Secretary, all the punishments are being carried out. That was one of the Prime Minister's most powerful statements following the declaration of government. We are almost halfway and there is not much of this on site. Once again, it is painful to see that the corona crisis is being abused in order to postpone the execution of all the sentences, as has been announced many times, for another six months. We'll talk about this later. The execution of short prison sentences is also being postponed, unfortunately. Do you not realise that it is particularly important for judges that the punishment they pronounce is actually carried out? Doing the opposite in practice is particularly demotivating for them. Proper punishment is also important for the victims. Of course there must be no delay, Minister. How will you carry out all the penalties in June 2022, if we are already faced with overcrowded prisons? At best, two new prisons will open, but three will close. The detention homes mentioned will not be completed yet. Two have been announced, but we have also had to observe last week that there is a great deal of opposition on the ground for the detention house in Verviers. So it will not be obvious to realize all that. I also hope that you are aware that detention homes do not provide a solution for all prisoners, especially for the serious criminals. Minister, with regard to better enforcement, I would like to refer to a report by the Court of Auditors, which shows that barely 24% of fines are collected. That is only EUR 84 million instead of EUR 350 million. Please work towards a better implementation of penalty penalties and a clear policy of replacement penalties, ensuring that they are implemented in all districts. In our society, there should be no place for relapses. Freed convicts must be followed closely and intensively, including through systematic control actions by the federal police, monitoring computer usage, regular wiretapping of telephone traffic and house visits. New facts and the least violation of the conditions imposed by early release should lead to an unbearable return to prison. Unfortunately, I don't read about this. You announce that non-Belgian prisoners must serve their sentence in the country of origin. Inmates who no longer have a right of residence in Belgium at the time of their release or at the end of their sentence must be repatriated. It could have come from the programme of the Flemish Interest, but it comes from your policy statement. We support you in that. We have long argued in favour of anyone who takes advantage of our hospitality and tolerance to commit crimes here, being treated irreversibly and taking away Belgian nationality if they have a dual nationality. In practice, unfortunately, the implementation of such a policy leaves a great deal to be desired. We therefore urge you to do something about this. Zero tolerance for violence against police or aid workers should also apply. Mrs Verlinden announced that she would always be bourgeois in matters relating to violence against police forces. That must always be done, without exception. The penalties for violence against police and aid workers should also be increased. Moreover, I fear that zero tolerance should also be extended to other groups in society. Think of the alarm call from the garbage collectors two weeks ago. In order to pursue a strong and robust security policy, the people who have to live up to it on the ground must also be better supported, such as the federal judicial police. All initiatives contributing to capacity expansion should be strengthened. Work needs to be done on further professionalising the judicial police work and the attractiveness of the job. You have many beautiful goals. You'll get extra resources, but I'm afraid I have to end what I started. Two crucial points will be a particularly difficult challenge for you: realising all your announcements with the available resources and finding sufficient skilled staff for all areas of Justice. We will follow that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the justice budget will increase in the coming year, from around EUR 2 billion to EUR 2.3 billion, and that the government has deliberately chosen to invest more in justice. If we look at where this expenditure is going, we can see that we are doing so in all areas of justice. For example, we invest in more magistrates and judicial staff, but also in the prison system, the security of the state, the support services. So we invest in all areas and we do not just do that linearly. We make conscious choices, also taking into account the needs on the ground. The credit is, of course, that of the Secretary of State for the Budget, who has allowed me to do so, a choice made in the formation of the government. It is also in all honesty the credit of Mr Geens with the preparatory work he did when he did a number of publications, saying that a fundamental refinancing is necessary to make Justice truly run. We are doing that now and it is not disputed, so that is positive. Secondly, the question is what is being done with these resources. The adadium 'faster, more human, more punitive' is often repeated by the members of the opposition, for which thanks are clear. That's the touchstone we always use in justice policy. Mrs De Wit has reservations about 'punished', because short sentences are still not being implemented and there is the challenge. But I would like to correct a misunderstanding: 'punished' does not always mean the cruelest punishment, Mrs De Wit. I refer to what an Italian philosopher once wrote, the man who was the first to argue against the death penalty in the 18th century and against corporal punishment, something nobody in this hemisphere is in favour of, although I may be mistaken. Cesare Beccaria said that the best punishment is not the heaviest punishment, but the lightest punishment that can't be avoided. In other words, justice must always be tailored. That is why, in sexual criminal law, which is now once again subject to the opinion of the Council of State and which will be voted on after the recess here, we have deliberately chosen an approach whereby severe penalties are one element, but also alternative ones can be used. After all, we see if we want to treat a convicted person, we have to do so by the right means. Justice is always tailor-made, which is why we advocate a number of measures, such as autonomous probation and a number of others you have referred to. However, the criminal justice system also means that we cannot avoid its punishment, which is why we choose to have short sentences carried out. I understand your disappointment. Twice postponed. I will not refer to the past, but again, that delay had to do twice with corona. We have to be very careful, with everything coming towards us, but we hope that on June 1, when corona is under control, we will do so. A question was asked about capacity and the problem of overpopulation. Mrs De Wit, you say that I have too little attention for that. I would like to point out that 2 of my 5 priorities for 2022 relate directly or indirectly to the problem of overpopulation. When I talk about detention and transition homes, it's about additional capacity. When I talk about internment, I also talk about proper reception and possible additional capacity. We're not sitting still and we're effectively trying to find more places. What do we do? We are fully updating the master plan. I would like to point out that next year and then, with the opening of Haren, Dendermonde and Ypres, we are creating 438 additional net places. Those aren't gross places, but they're net. Indeed, three prisons are empty in Brussels, but the debate on this is not over. There is also the plan that we worked out in the short term to create 720 places at the detention homes and 70 at the transition houses. At the transition houses we have enough candidates, at the tent houses it is indeed an uphill battle. You refer to the problem in Verviers. I invite everyone, including the MPs of the Flemish Interest, who are very strongly opposed to impunity, to make motions in their municipal councils for the establishment of a defence house. However, I note that the Flemish interest is the preferred party against any arrival of a detention center in a city or a municipality. I don't think that's consistent. We cannot say that we are against impunity, but we can also say that we are against new prisons. What do you want to do? Then how will you solve the problem? We are indeed facing a difficult challenge. We're at 2. In Verviers there is also some discussion, in my own city I was the first to take responsibility. Perhaps there is also some place in Koksijde, Mr Loones, or with you, Mr Metsu or Mrs De Wit. There's always something against a detention center. The image of a detention home is not at all in line with the serenity and debate we have had in this House. This is a difficult matter, but we have received EUR 91.5 million additional resources to set up these detention homes. If you add all this up, you get 1,228 extra net places. We are already preparing for the follow-up in the next legislature to provide net capacity there as well. Antwerp has been signed and Leopoldsburg and Vresse stand for 312 and 280 net extra places. The FPCs that need to be created are being prepared and will provide 620 additional places. In other words, next legislative term we have 1,212 extra net seats. So we are working on it. One can of course say here that we need to build up prisons. We are currently looking for net places with all possible creativity. We're not gonna leave any options behind, don't worry. That's a work of day and night, by the Cabinet and the Government of the Buildings. Every day we look for additional capacity. Of course, the needs must also be emptied in the short term. We do, too. We really have a problem of overpopulation in Antwerp. I want to refer to what a journalist wrote this week. He told in Het Laatste Nieuws about the 21 phenomena of 2021. He said that one of the culprits in the overcrowding "is Sky ECC's phone app popular with criminals." He goes on to say: "Since the operation of the same name on 9 March this year, the drugs environment has shattered its foundations, 548 suspects have been arrested." In Antwerp alone, 112 of those suspects are currently in prison. So we are actually the victims of our own success. We are fighting organised crime in a way that has not yet been shown in our country, and that will ensure that more people are in prison. That must be resolved. That is why we visited the prison in Antwerp to find a solution. Mrs De Wit, one of the things we are doing is a better distribution of the prisoners. We have the plan to provide 280 extra beds spread across different prisons. We are fully implementing that distribution plan. The intention is to get the overpopulation to a reasonable level in Antwerp. We are working on this. You also referred to the duty we have to allow long-term punishment to serve in their country of origin. In recent years, there has been an upward trend in the interstate shipment. Because of the corona crisis, that advance stopped in 2020. However, we are on the right track to exceed the level of 2019 by 2021. So we are going to re-launch on more interstate shipments. We are also fully engaged in initiatives to conclude bilateral agreements with the countries of origin, so that foreigners without a right of residence can serve their sentence there. We are fully engaged in countries such as Algeria, Tunisia, Cuba, Malaysia and Egypt. Meanwhile, we have a bilateral agreement with Albania, Brazil and Morocco. That is what we want to do, Mrs Dewit. The overpopulation does indeed have our attention, both in the medium term and in the long and short term. We are talking about this with the unions in prisons, to get that problem under control. I do not want to hide behind the fact that this has grown historically, it is our job to resolve this well. Thank you, Mrs Dillen, for your statement. You have largely repeated what you also said in committee. You say it will be a matter of carrying all this out and ask if the resources will be sufficient. I have always said that we want to make a change within the Justice Department with these additional resources. The recruitment of 1,400 people this year and next year is not nothing, there are a lot of magistrates and legal staff. I know you think that the campaign will not solve everything, but the initial results are encouraging. On social media there was the campaign "Da's Just," a campaign for more people at Justice. For relatively little money, EUR 200,000, we have more than 471 candidates for 76 vacant places at two weeks' time. Take, for example, the problem of the penitentiary staff in Antwerp, Mrs Dewit. That's not just about more space, it's about more people, not more hands on the bed, but more hands in the cell. We have seen that the campaign has greatly increased the number of candidates in recent weeks. The exams are organized after the recess. A campaign can make a difference. They used to do rounds, Mrs. Dillen. For IT at the Justice Department, no candidate showed up. Today we see for three profiles care workers, penitentiary staff and IT.... that we have 471 candidates. Making the social status attractive, as mentioned above, is the intention to present a draft law to Parliament in 2022 to ensure this. Mrs Dillen, you are quite right to point out that the penalty penalties are really a problem in our country. That's absolutely right. We see that at the traffic fines we manage to collect them very well, with an grading of 94 %. Mrs Dewit referred to that. We would like to use the platform that we have developed for this purpose to collect penalty fines. Today the collection takes place through a cooperation between Justice and Finance. The Court of Auditors has published several reports on this subject. I don't think that's the right way to work. I am not saying that they will collect as many penalty penalties as traffic fines, because the profile of the convicted is often different. Traffic fines are in a majority of cases about people who have the ability to pay them. In the case of penalty fines, there are a number of profiles of people who do not. Nevertheless, we must certainly be able to increase the rates of collection. We are talking to the Minister of Finance to deal with this in a different way. I think the message has arrived clearly. There are now more resources and you can be sure that we will use them in the coming year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u7	Mr Minister, I have of course already heard those answers. First of all, I have to say that you do have those resources. You have negotiated well, better than some other ministers. I agree with you that every punishment should not necessarily be the cruelest. It is, of course, easy to use alternatives if another government has to solve it. Your problem will be solved. You open the cell doors, you have little space, so you switch to alternatives. The region may then catch it. I find that very easy. Secondly, you are talking about penalty fines. There is more, however, because according to the Court of Auditors there is EUR 1 billion in capital punishment for picking up. You could balance the justice system even more, but you don't. Road safety is important, but you are very hard on Crossborder, ordinary road tickets for ordinary citizens, who will not easily avoid their punishment. From now on, 90% of the fines will be processed via Crossborder. You have entered EUR 100 million in the budget for this purpose. I think the contrast is very big. A penalty with delay is now possible regardless of what is going on. There used to be thresholds. In the past they were not eligible if they had been sentenced to certain prison sentences. It can be important to some, but not always. They'll use it, that's a lock. So the contrast is too big. I am very sorry about that. I can't do all the punishments. There is still work to be done on overpopulation. You hardly have detention homes today. A detention center is for 20 to 50 people. So you're still in the middle of something, aren't you? You speak of more concern for the interned. That would be lacking! However, you wanted to register in a law that they could be re-incarcerated. So it's all a little double. Unfortunately, the extra seats will not be there until the end of the legislature or even the next legislature. You will really have to step up to make the contrast not too big. You want to be the minister of more punishments and carry out all the punishments, whatever, alternative or other. So far, however, you are simply the Minister of Fines, Fines, Fines. That may be a choice, but I don't know if justice gets so humane, faster, and more punishing. Madam President, we have a new meeting with the Minister tomorrow morning. Does the plenary still start at 9 a.m.? That is important to know, because then we will be able to talk again about the fines and the road safety section.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u8	Minister, you say that you are making a number of conscious choices in your policy. I have read your policy paper very carefully, and I can only see that it contains a number of elements. These are all important issues that need to be realised, but unfortunately all of them require a great deal of resources. So I fear that you will not be able to achieve everything you announce before 2022. You're gonna have to make choices. You refer to the recruitment of 1,400 extra people. I wish you every success in this, but I realise that you should not delay the development of a better social status, for example for the magistrates. Give a strong response to the high workload and work on a new statute that is adapted to current expectations and provides better financial conditions and working conditions. The same goes for the penitentiary staff, which I have already referred to. Today there is still a huge shortage of guards. They have to work overtime, can't take their holidays and have to work in particularly stressful situations in severely out-of-date prisons. Please, Minister, do something about that. Convicts can't avoid their punishment. Short sentences must also be applied. That was all very well announced, both by the Prime Minister during the government statement and by you. We support you in this, but once again, by delaying you again, you are sending a very wrong signal. You ask me to make a proposal about the detention homes in the municipality where I live. In my congregation, your party has been waving the stick for years, now along with the N-VA. I really don't think your party will be inclined to set up that detention house there. During the next city council I would like to ask a question for explanation and I will at least keep you informed of the answer. Finally, Minister, I would like to talk about the overpopulation. More places are urgently needed. Mr De Wit has made a sketch. By the end of 2022 there will indeed be two prisons. Three will also be closed, as I said. However, most of what you are announcing is only before the end of the legislature. There is a really big problem in Antwerp. You refer to a journalist who states that the overpopulation of the prisons in Antwerp is the result of the Sky ECC operation. I read that article, too. That is a splendid result that has been achieved by the federal judicial police and I would like to congratulate them on it. However, Minister, the prison in Antwerp is not full as a result of Operation Sky ECC. I told you, this is a problem that has been dragging on for decades. The prisoners must live in truly inhuman conditions. There is a capacity of 430 places and at certain times there are more than twice as many people. These people then have to sleep on the ground, without decent plumbing, which is unworthy of a civilized country. In 1991, the first time I was elected here in the Chamber, we went on the spot with the Justice Commission to look at the problem of the overpopulation of the prisons in Antwerp. There was already talk of overpopulation back then. That was 30 years ago. All successive Justice Ministers have ignored this problem in Antwerp and in other prisons. They have not worked on structural solutions. I do not blame you for that, but for the completeness and correctness of the report. I hope you will make this work as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u9	As regards the fact that we are going to throw things away from the Communities, that is fundamentally wrong, especially when we are about to carry out the short sentences. Mrs De Wit, at the moment all short sentences are systematically converted into an anklet. You know that. If we start to execute the short sentences, it will be the execution judge who decides. That will mean that more people will end up in prison and fewer people will be with ankle bracelets. In this way, we are partly burdening the Communities. The point is, of course, that I do not pursue a policy with the idea of putting the burden on that Community, so that we are less affected by it. A policy must be based on a vision. My vision, namely faster, more human, more punishing, I have explained. The problem of the interned in prison is, of course, well known. We will build new FPCs. Let us be honest, however, today we find that there is also a problem of flowing to the regular circuit. That is the responsibility of the Communities for a great deal. I believe that we are all responsible together. I can't solve it all myself, but within my authority, I will do everything I can to make progress. This is something we have to do together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u10	Minister, this is a very interesting debate and I would like to continue, but I will not do so now. Madam President, that is just my point. It's 4.52 hours and people still need to be covered. Some of us have been here since 9:00 this morning. I appeal to you and to colleagues to organise the debates differently in the future. One day, hold the general discussion and another day, the thematic discussion, so that every Member can do his thing and does not have to sign out, as some people do, because it is going to be far too late. Now we have to have very interesting and important debates at 4 or 5 a.m., knowing that we have another meeting at 9 a.m. for another debate. Madam President, I really hope you will deal with this. I've been sitting here for a while now, and it happens all the time. I think that we really need to think about a different way of working, not by restricting the debate by saying that it has to be done in so many minutes, because that is not possible. I think we should be able to have a good debate, but it is a pity that we should be discussing such important matters at this hour. I deeply regret that. I hope that we will do everything in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u11	Enter the debate in committee, please. This is unbelievable. Why should all debates be held twice, once in committee and a second time in plenary? There's absolutely no point in that. You have representatives in the Conference of Presidents. We will talk about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u12	Madam President, I certainly do not want to prolong the debate, but I have heard my entire career say that the discussion of the budget and the policy papers is the high mass of politics every year. It is clear that detailed work must be done in committee, but that this must also be discussed here, not just the figures in general, but also the content by department. I understood from my group leader that clear agreements had been reached at the Conference of Presidents, which would have made the debate much easier if the rules had been respected. I've been here since this morning. At lunchtime, three speakers had spoken, whereas normally almost all group leaders should have been addressed, if you had acted a little more decisively and had not allowed everyone here to continue to interrupt the debate endlessly. So Mr De Wit is actually right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u13	Mrs Dillen, I will say it in French to use the correct words. It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity! From the beginning, you don't respect anything in the timing. Absolutely nothing! You yourself exceeded your ten-minute timing by more than a minute. Everyone was waving to me in the room. I have respected your speaking time, and now you are blaming me. It's still serious, an attitude like that. (Applause) But I know what to do next time. I'll tell you a minute before, and I'll turn off your microphone. If that's how you want us to function, I don't find it very elegant, but when I give you the necessary speaking time, I let you go and you blame me. What should be done in the end? You're never happy. Your goal is just to criticise and it's not right. It's now 5:00. We've all been together since 9:00 this morning. It is high time to take responsibility and bring this debate to a conclusion; moreover, I move on to the next debate. This debate is of no use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u15	No, Mrs. Dillen, you don't have the floor. We turn to Mrs Verlinden, who is present in the Chamber to discuss the matter. Mr Loones is also present. Mr Metsu has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u16	Madam Secretary, let me immediately drop by with a very topical point: the appreciation of our policemen and women. We heard earlier today that our soldiers will earn between 300 and 500 euros a month, something they are of course worth. Those are net amounts. Our 50,000 agents and agents are right to ask themselves where their custody minister, the Home Secretary, was during the budget meeting. Because you were mistreated there by your colleagues, Madam Secretary. The 50,000 families of hard-working policemen are low-loored, I have no other word for that. For them, I understand, there is now roughly EUR 970 gross per year after today, provided that the social agreement is signed later this week or in the weeks to come. My guess is that they'll accept that agreement because it's your last offer and they'll have the knife on their throats. If I may compare: for a police family there is an extra Big Mac menu per month, while for the military with his family it is a full shopping cart per week. And again, we don't miss the military, but the difference is incredibly disproportionate. It's just not 5:00, we're debating for 20 hours. As Minister for the Interior and Security, you are the last Minister in line in the debate on the budget. That is exactly where you stood when the budget was distributed, Madam Secretary. Now you're trying to seduce the troops with a Big Mac with art and flying skills. But even worse, you didn't get a budget increase, but this is a shift. It is reported that today you are putting EUR 120 million on the table for the trade unions. My question is simple: what recurrent expenses will you not do? The second issue concerns non-activity prior to retirement with the same police force, also a dossier that continues to drag on. Last year we were surprised at the way in which you, as a minister, dealt with the NAVAP scheme. I'd like to point out that our bill was fired. We proposed a transitional arrangement, a temporary continuation for the new year, in times when there is no structural solution. Now we notice that the show will last. The current budget is exactly the same as last year. There is too little budget, both for the federal and local police, while we are still in a transitional arrangement without you as a minister proposing a structural arrangement. For the federal police there is far too little budget for the NAVAP scheme, although with the oral promise that this will be supplemented with the budget of the interdepartmental commission, the IDP. Together with the federal police, we hope that the police will receive these cents effectively. For the local police, the NAVAP grant is provided, but it is still less than the temporary transitional measure. The Court of Auditors, which is also suing it, has delivered the following opinions. The court states that the government considers the NAVAP costs for the local police who are in principle one-off as new expenses. This seems to us to be a very premature conclusion, because that means that there should be no budget for it at all next year, while there is still no idea at all of a structural solution for the overall funding of the police. That's incomprehensible. Secondly, the appropriations for NAVAP provided by the government for the federal police do not correspond at all to the estimate of the costs. We wonder who will pay the deficit. A new promise to get money out of the IDP does not yet entail the budgetary obligation to allocate that money effectively to the federal police. I can only conclude that the whole of NAVAP has become a budgetary mess without the promised structural solution. We believe that our police services deserve much better in this respect. Thirdly, on 1 January 2022, a new National Security Plan must enter into force under your direction. We all know that making plans is one thing, which is not very difficult in itself, but that they are all the more important. They must not remain wish lists, as we have heard before. Of course, this also requires the necessary budgets, both for people and for resources. Here it comes. None of your plans are linked to budgets. However, you keep yelling. I have just heard from Minister Van Quickenborne that it is about 1,400 additional recruitments. You're doing better. You want to recruit 1,600 extra agents net. That's just an example. So neither for the National Security Strategy, for which I must turn to the Prime Minister, nor for the Integrated Security Framework Paper, for which I had to address myself to Minister Van Quickenborne, nor for your National Security Plan, are there any specific resources. Finally, I have a long list. I do not read about, for example, the police organisation of the future, the Crossroads Bank Security, which is responsible for the crucial flow of information, the new funding law, innovation and new technologies and so on. I will not have the debate again. I have already indicated during the committee that you are studying a great deal. You want to set up incredibly many working groups. However, there are very few concrete issues in policy. You have been designated Minister by your party. Of course, I am or are willing to hear your vision. Talk to experts, but don't go back to studying for years. After all, there will soon be new elections. Covid masks a great deal, but in recent years we have lost valuable time, both in the area of justice and in the area of internal security. We should have continued the road to a genuine culture of security which we were allowed to work together in 2014. The October 2021 Government Declaration made it quite clear that security remains an absolute priority. That sounds very good, but how far can one jump without a budget? Unfortunately, my group notes that our national security is no longer one of the government's priorities, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u17	Madam Minister, I will make my speech briefly at this advanced hour, nor will I repeat the committee discussions here. Let me start, as Mr Metsu almost congratulate you on a near agreement. We read today that there is almost an agreement with the police unions to increase wages. The budgets will be increased from 100 million to 120 million, which means about 70 euros net more for each police officer. However, there are still a number of points of concern which I hope, Madam Secretary, you will be able to resolve in the next 48 hours. For example, the police unions are still waiting for a binding declaration from you that the NAVAP regime will be maintained. There is still no clarity on the telework fee and there is no prospect of a second negotiation phase in 2024. Madam Secretary, you could have avoided suffering. You could have served ready wine from the beginning of the year. On the other hand, you promised something you couldn't live up to. You have proposed 50 euros per police officer. You then wiped it all the way off the table, and now, reluctantly, after the police unions naturally felt called on to take action, you went back to the negotiating table with a number of budgets. Mr Metsu, like me, raises the very right question: where do these budgets come from? I haven't seen them. Show us the money , Madam Secretary. Is it a shift of resources? If so, at the expense of which departments? Madam Minister, I would like to make a number of essential points. Is it all bad in your policy plan? Absolutely not. I am in favour of what you have knocked off in connection with the recruitment of staff. You're targeting 1,600 new candidates. However, we must dare to ask whether this really leads to new recruitments. It is also necessary to take into account the outflux of personnel in the police force and other services, such as civil security where staff are affected, because it has to take on so many tasks. I have also received signals from the people on the ground who doubt that the bar will not be too low if 1 600 new recruits are easily carried out. They insist that we also pay attention to the quality of our political approach. Madam Secretary, you acknowledge the social trend towards increasing suspicion of public authority. It is indeed crucial that the government is aware of this and responds appropriately to it. In this context, does a social debate fit in with the question of the cause of suspicion of public authority? Isn't that because wrong priorities are being set? Isn't that because there's a wrong focus? It is also quite disappointing that we have to wait until next year to see the new framework paper on integrated security finalized. There are good elements in it, such as the fight against intra-family violence. Only this is limited to giving financial impetus over a two-year period to 15 projects, which still have to be selected. Madam Minister, I do not think that method is a model of clear policy, but of a policy of trial and error. You have unfortunately noticed in recent weeks how shaky it can sometimes be. You had a national security plan in preparation and suddenly you became head of jut, because you had no longer identified tax fraud as priority number one. It led to a frequent semantic discussion between you and the government parties. I hope that you will put tax fraud back on the table as a priority and that you will restore it, because the Flemish interest also wants a rigorous approach to tax fraud. One of mine, Madam Secretary, is the fight against violence against security professionals. You are committed to establishing, when designated, a bourgeois party in the event of serious physical violence. It is a pity, however, that local police areas are not encouraged. Why aren't those police zones obliged to do that? A local police officer should really hope that the zoning chief does and that he will be helped when he becomes the victim of physical violence. In fact, legal aid insurance could be imposed both at federal and local level, so that, regardless of the body to which the agent belongs, his employer takes legal action. In practice, assistance to the agents themselves is not always easy at the moment. In this connection, Madam Minister, there is the issue of bodycams as a tool. It has been a long time since its introduction and I wonder why, because experience in pilot projects shows that it can be a useful tool. In the light of this, our group will put to the vote the legislative proposal that we have tabled in this House at one of the next committee meetings. Reference is rightly made to the need to integrate this new technology in consultation with the Police Information Control Body. The attention paid to the protection of privacy is rightly stressed, but it is poignant to note that this privacy proves to be far less important when it comes to the registration of the CST ticket and the possible identity fraud in identity checks in hotels or other places. It is regrettable that the Minister of Justice is no longer here, as it is mentioned that there will be alignment with the Minister of Justice on the priority follow-up of such cases. Unfortunately, that is not a concrete commitment either. There is today a letter from the College of Attorneys General, which only applies an obligation to prosecute if the incapacity is longer than four months. If the government wants to prosecute every motorist who drives one kilometer too fast and can set up a separate traffic park for that, if the government of road safety makes a priority, why can it not at least make a priority of the safety of its own police officers and emergency services and of the crime scenes whose citizens are really awake? The violence not only targets police officers, but extends to all uniformed officials. The penalties in force are too light. We have also tabled a legislative proposal to amend various provisions with a view to abolishing community service penalties in the event of convictions for violence against aid and order services. What is striking, Madam Minister, is that when it comes to combating phenomena such as urban violence, your policy plan remains extremely vague and meaningless. You acknowledge the problem, but little is being done, except for the organisation of a colloquium. You announce that there will be concrete policy proposals, but they should have been there a long time ago. The phenomenon of urban violence is not new. It seems easier to point the finger at our own police forces than to take concrete measures against vandalism and violence. I conclude that the policy plan is too non-binding. We do not think that there are enough concrete measures. Much is being studied, as Mr Metsu said, but we have not yet seen very concrete plans and measures. In fact, you have not yet put forward any draft law on the organisation of police services or police measures in the Committee on the Interior. I hope that will change soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course things came back from the discussions in committee. Mr Metsu, I would like to say that it is important for me, but the later in the night, the more colourful and the more alternate the interpretation you give to the budget conclave and what has happened there. It is up to the opposition to oppose, but I think it is important to look at the results and what we do. First of all as regards the appreciation of the organisation and of the policemen. I do not know where the whim comes from that money is not being released for the police and for the Interior, which I have heard here earlier today in the general discussion of the budget. There's definitely more money for the police. More money has been made available for security than under the previous legislature. Then why do you say that? It sounds or sounds good, as you say, but goes against the facts. You know that we are investing more in the police organisation, in total this legislative term EUR 310 million more. In addition, additional credit for the police will be provided for 2022 and investments will be made in a number of specific initiatives, as you know, including in i-Police. It's just not right that there's no more investment in security. You may continue to say this, but I will give you the same answer, which is based on the tables and the figures. With regard to the appreciation of the police and the state of play of the sectoral agreement referred to by Mr Depootere...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u19	Madam Minister, I am not a security or police expert like Mr Metsu, but I am trying to read the budget tables. When I look at the tables for the Home Office, I see that last year, in 2020, it had a budget of EUR 1.64 billion and next year it will have a budget of EUR 1.62 billion. 1.62 seems to me to be lower than 1.64. In the budgets for the federal police in the budget, I see the same thing. Last year's budget, 2020, is higher than next year's budget, 2022. You can say that we would invent things, but I'm just reading the tables as they've been delivered to us by Mrs De Bleeker. There may be a mistake in the tables, but you can hardly blame us for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u20	I'll give you the numbers again. You know the technique. An IDP is being used. That is why you do not find that on those lines. Perhaps Mrs. De Bleeker can confirm that. An increase in the budget envelope of the integrated police force has been agreed. Next year's policy envelope includes an additional €70 million budget for iPolice. There's been an increase in federal police budgets, and there's been an increase in FPS Home Affairs budgets. It is a well-known budgetary technique that is regulated through an IDP. What I am telling here is indeed the truth, and Mrs De Bleeker will be able to confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u21	Can Mrs De Bleeker effectively confirm that the commitments made in the interdepartmental commission are certain and will follow 100%? We have had this discussion with the Secretary of State several times in the past. It always points to the fact that it is not an ideal budgetary technique, but that the guarantee cannot really be given. That can only be done in budgetary terms when the plans come and they have passed the Council of Ministers. There is therefore a political decision to be taken. So it is not true that you can subscribe that as a sure budget because it is in the commission, unless the government's strategy would have changed there too, and that you would now start using the commissions to do budgetary work in a certain way. The Court of Auditors would be a little more critical of that than it is today. Can you give that guarantee, including for Mrs Verlinden? It'd be good. We have just literally asked the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State if there is any guarantee that there will be extra money. We asked the question three times and they refused to answer. Maybe the Secretary of State wants answers now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u22	The government has decided to allocate these appropriations in this way. This has also happened in recent years. That is a well-known budgetary technique. Maybe we should all get more information about that. However, it is a policy decision to allocate resources in this way. The fact that they are on the line of the IDP is another matter. However, the government has made that decision. That's what we're trying to do, just like we've done in the past few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u23	Madam President, EUR 50 million has been included in the IDP. Also included in axis 5 of our relaunch plan is 5 million euros. Those resources come back here via an adjustment sheet of 2022. Also in the previous interdepartmental commissions, there had to be plans against it. We used that technique last year. As I have already told you in committee, I would prefer to allocate everything directly to the services, but then there should be very clear plans. So we're applying that technique this time, too. So it's true what Minister Verlinden says.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u24	Thank you for the additional information. Let me make another appeal: please stop that! This is the third debate today in which there is no purity. That was also the case in the debate on asylum reception. If this Parliament wants to do a good job, if you think we need to discuss this thoroughly, then there must also be transparency about the figures. Either you decide to simply assign the interdepartmental commission politically, but then you make even more improper use of an instrument that is already improper.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u25	I will continue with a very important chapter that we have already discussed in committee, both in the context of the budget negotiations and in the context of a thematic session of the Committee on the Interior on the attractiveness of the police. In view of the current situation, I am referring in particular to the sectoral agreement. Both speakers referred to this. We have indeed had many talks with the police unions in recent weeks and months. I must say that I have taken up the gauntlet after 20 years of absence of a structural wage increase, which was not taken up by my predecessors. I want to change that. The fact that this debate is not easy seems to me to be self-evident. The expectations of the police after those 20 years of standstill are high. The context is challenging, both for the federal government and for the local authorities. There is no question that we need to make progress in order to give all policemen a sense of appreciation for the often difficult work they have to do. I had constructive talks yesterday. No end result has yet been knocked off. Both trade unions and government colleagues continue these discussions. It is my firm belief that we must be able to reach an agreement and that this can happen in the short term. The necessary budgets will be provided for this. They were talking about cutting and sticking. The search for budgets is not easy. If it were that simple, my predecessors would have done it a long time ago. That didn't happen, but I'd like to do it out of respect for the police. I want to jump as far as possible in the light of the current context. Another element is NAVAP. We have been able to have that debate a number of times. The reason why we had to find a solution for NAVAP for 2021 and 2022 is that this is a past regime, for which no structural solution has been found in the past. I would like to re-examine this black man, which is your job, so I would like to move on to the present government, but I think it is wrong for you to speak of a budgetary mess and the like. After all, we have sought a solution for 2022, which compensates for the contribution of local authorities, given the importance of these additional costs, and we are working on a structural solution. I don't think that's wrong. It is a past situation without a structural solution. It seems obvious to me that we are going to resolve this further, but for this year it is nothing but what has happened in the past. If the solution were so obvious, my predecessors would have already arranged it. We're gonna get to it and we're gonna fix it. I'm going into the National Security Plan now. Mr Depoostere, I hear what you are saying about the challenges in this area. You spoke quite extensively about the KIV, which, as you know, falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I'm not going to repeat last week's debate. I made it very clear at the time that tax fraud has always been a priority. I can leave it at that. The police will contribute to the results of the chain approach "This is important" and will more than ever use tools that have been put in place for this purpose. That is extremely important. I am actually asking myself whether you have ever considered it realistic that someone should say that this is not important. More than ever, I can refer to my response last week. Mr Metsu, you also referred to a number of other things, such as the crossroads bank and the police organisation. During the substantial discussion of the policy paper in committee, we had the opportunity to discuss these instruments in detail. I do not see why you say that there is no mention of it, because it is true, and there are means to do so. Section 17 of the budget provides the resources for the police. The National Security Plan is the implementation of the choices in the budget. This in itself is not a contradiction and certainly not a concern to invest the necessary resources in the choices made in the National Security Plan. I know that you are doing a little bit narrowing about the preparatory work that we are putting in place for a number of initiatives, such as preparing for the future of the police, financing the local areas and the optimal scale of the local areas. You speak of years and years of study. The reality points out that this will be impossible in any case. This legislature has not been running for years and years. So it is important that we act quickly. As far as I'm concerned, we have to act wisely. What we cannot do is to be faced with reforms that are almost once again called into question within the year. That's not what we need to do. Indeed, this sometimes requires time and extensive consultation with the services involved, with the experts and with the academic world. I think it's important that we think about what we're doing and don't rush into it. We must continue to work, because the challenges are immense and we must move stones as quickly as possible, but in an informed way. Mr Metsu, you have decided that we should jump without a budget and that security would not be a priority. At the start of my intervention here, I have already explained that this is not true, it is indeed a priority. This is evident not only from the figures, but also from the commitment we make to change a lot of situations. I will conclude with Mr Depoostere's two topics, in particular the violence against security professionals and the obligation of local police areas. It is an interesting idea and possibly it sounds good, but the reality of it does not seem to me to exist entirely. It is not for me to impose certain elements on the local police zones. I have said on several occasions that we are calling on the areas affected to do so. In this context, I also have regular personal contact with those responsible for these police areas to discuss this. This is a criminal procedure. I do not think it is a good idea to force someone to participate in criminal proceedings. I do not know whether you would come here and say that this would undermine the autonomy of a local police area. That seems to me to be too far-reaching. As you know, we are working on the legal framework for the bodycams. We have to do that with respect for privacy. Of course, we must move forward with this too, we must seek advice and we must take lessons from pilot projects. That goes without saying. However, I must say that you notice, on certain cameras, that it is unheard of, that they should not be used and that it is a violation of privacy, but that in another type of camera, privacy disappears to the background for you. Of course, it doesn't work that way. We must take into account the privacy aspect, just to ensure that images taken and subsequently used in any subsequent incident should not be taken out of the debate and not undermine the validity of the whole procedure or of the whole follow-up, because we have not dealt with privacy in a lawful manner. Allow me to point out, therefore, that discussions in the context of security incidents involving professionals are often much more complicated than a traffic offence, which can easily be registered with a fixed or mobile camera. This does not mean that we should not use all possible modern means and techniques. You know that I have an ally to take care of. However, the evidence must be out-of-date and it must be possible to make the findings. This is often much more complex than a finding of a traffic breach or a speeding offence. So we have to do something about it. The police also know that I will do everything I can with them to give the appropriate follow-up to the dossier in the current context. We are working on legislative proposals to work on this. They are coming in the course of 2022, which we have already discussed in the Committee on Home Affairs. Madam President, that concludes my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u26	Madam Secretary, allow me to briefly replicate the NAVAP regime. I myself run a local police area for five municipalities. For our local police area we originally had 350,000 euros of federal support and we note that this has now been reduced to 50,000 euros. The budget of the local police area is now being worked on. The argument that the full amount is still supported by federal contributions is not correct. In the previous legislature, to which you refer, EUR 400 million was invested in security, half of which went directly to the police, not only to staff, but also to resources. My question is still burning, because it is still unclear where the EUR 120 million that is now on the table for a raise is coming from. It's a shift, not a budget increase. That's why I want to know where you found the extra 20 million. That's got to come from somewhere. I hope that you will show sufficient transparency about your plan in this respect, because we should know which budget line will provide this EUR 120 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u27	Madam President, I would like to say a few words about a few corrections. Madam Secretary, I did not say that the restructuring of the police landscape must be done quickly. Because of the many studies and consultations you are planning, I fear that this restructuring will drag on for years and that we may not even see the actual results in the present legislature. With regard to violence against the police, you always point out that it is difficult to impose or impose certain things because it jeopardises the autonomy of the police zones. However, you are ignoring my second proposal on this subject, namely the letter from the Attorney General, in which a policeman can receive legal aid from four months of incapacity for work. I believe that the necessary steps should be taken if a policeman, as a victim of physical violence, is declared incompetent even for a day or a few days. Thirdly, the bodycam: I have just emphasised that privacy is very important here, but I have also pointed out a number of very good examples of pilot projects which show that the policemen themselves are also asking parties to make use of them. I therefore hope that you will not delay this for long and take concrete steps in 2022. What we really need, Madam Secretary, is a secure society. To get there, we need the necessary resources, and it is not always clear whether there are sufficient resources. Secondly, even more importantly, without the final piece of justice, it is a pity that Minister Van Quickenborne has already left us. As long as that doesn't work out, I'm afraid we won't be able to keep our police force motivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u28	Madam President, I call for an answer to Mr Metsu's question. Madam Minister, if you cannot tell us how this 120 million will be financed, it is a potential increase in the budget, and this is a budget debate. It would therefore be good to know whether this expenditure is effectively fully compensated by internal resources and where they are then found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u29	Mr Loones, it seems logical to me that we should conclude the discussions that are currently taking place on this subject and report back at that time. As you know, I have no problem with going into further debate on this, but it is not the right time for that today. I think it is good that we have made progress and that, on the basis of constructive negotiations, we are trying to meet these challenges and improve that situation. Of course, the debates on this can be held at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u30	Madam President, as I said earlier to your replacement, André Flahaut, I do not understand this. There are plenary sessions in which the budget is being re-examined, there are thematic discussions about which the committee meetings are being held... I wonder if it is compulsory to work so inefficiently or is that a decision of the famous Conference of Presidents? This way of working is impossible to explain to anyone outside this house. We must seriously ask ourselves what we are doing. We're well paid, but if that's to always run the same laps, we're just making fun of ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u31	No one is obliged to sit here, Mr. Leysen. This is very specific information that has literally been received today and could not have been discussed in committee meetings, although it has a significant potential budgetary impact. We do not even ask how much the amount is, we just ask for confirmation that it will be fully compensated within the budgets of the police, so that we know that there will be no further expenditure. Apparently, that answer doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u32	Madam Chair, we've been talking about this since this morning, not counting every hour of committee. I therefore think that, together with the Secretary of State, we have answered all the questions. We've had, I don't know how many hours in committee, and since 9:00 a.m., we've been discussing the budget again. I don't know what questions we're going to be able to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, without wishing to offend you. Besides, you've been here since the beginning and you've been following all the work. Frankly, do we still have any questions to ask? Seriously!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u33	Apparently, Mr. Loones still has questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u34	Mr Loones will be extremely brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u35	He knows how to do it! You're going to do this to us very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u36	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the services for the good organisation of this solid and long debate. I also wish to thank the Secretary of State who was present from the beginning to the end. It is your first full budget and it is good that you are in charge of its guidance. I would like to ask a few more substantive questions. Where are we? When we look at 2021, based on analyses I have read, I have the impression that the policy focus was mainly on short-term measures. This is not entirely illogical given the corona context with aid measures and the like. There is no real start-up yet with long-term solutions. Have we seen a pension plan in 2021, as was announced? Not really. Have we seen labour market reforms, as announced and already included in the budget payback effects? Not really. We have seen a higher tax burden, an increase in revenue. The Court of Auditors has confirmed that the measures taken are mainly on the revenue side. I do not really feel that the opportunity offered by the crisis in 2021 was exploited, although the Prime Minister announced this in his government statement in October 2020 in the European Parliament. He even quoted Jean Monnet, the founder of the European Union. Don't panic! 2021 is almost done, we stand before 2022 with a new budget. There is a possibility of a re-launch, because Prime Minister De Croo said again in his State of the Union in October that everything will be fine, that the crisis will now be exploited and that structural measures will now be put in place. I have my doubts about this, especially when I look at the whole debate here. What did I hear today? Lots of red and green parties talking. They had clear budgetary expectations and they have been met to a large extent. They've brought in a lot. We have also heard a lot of orange or CD&V. We've heard less blue. I found the interventions from the Liberal Group rather limited. That is why I would like to intervene now. I would like to address you not only as a Minister of the Budget but also as an Open Vld Excellency. Normally, I would address the Deputy Prime Minister. That makes sense. During the major debates, the Vice-Premiers will speak. For the Liberal Group, however, I note that Minister Van Quickenborne is not really interfering in the major socio-economic debates. We don't hear Minister Van Quickenborne. When it comes to fighting for lower taxes, I hear Mr Bouchez but not Mr Van Quickenborne. The same applies to energy security or nuclear power plants. When it comes to labour market reforms, I hear your chairman, Mr Lachaert, but Mr Van Quickenborne hardly. Same for pensions while he has been Minister of Pensions. I do hear Minister Van Quickenborne when it comes to fines, fines, fines. However, we do not belong to the major socio-economic challenges. I'd still like to see if you could take that part. In the PS, the division of tasks is as follows: Secretary of State Dermine spells out the PS line. He's fighting for the left-wing French-speaking voice. This is also regulated in a certain way in other parties, but I do not notice that in the Open Vld Group. We'd like to see if you can become the Dermine of the Open Vld. First of all, in your intervention at the State of the Union, you gave a nice quote. You said a budget is more like figures and tables, but it is also a reflection of the standards and values for which we stand. I liked the wording of that. Which brings me to the police. We have had the debate for a long time, but not quite yet. There is no mention here of how the budget of EUR 120 million will be found. Reference has been made to EUR 50 million for e-police. These EUR 50 million have been allocated to them and cannot be used for structural expenditure to finance the salaries of police officers. What's assigned is assigned. Budgetary-technically, that cannot be changed. I'd like to ask you as an Open Vld Politica if you'll have that fight with Mrs. Verlinden to get extra budget for the police? Secondly, there was a strong communication about the Flemish Minister of Work Crevits who spoke about the community service for the long-term unemployed. Actually, the federal government doesn't have to say anything about it because it's not its jurisdiction. The Federal Minister of Work, your colleague, felt it necessary to speak very strongly against that. He called that forced labor. I thought that was very well formulated. He wasn't supposed to say that, but apparently he thought it was necessary. I would like to know whether an Open Vld-er in the government has spoken to Minister Dermagne about this by saying that this is not appropriate. He's just interfering with the policies of another region. After all, the coalition agreement states that an asymmetric policy will be pursued. So the Deputy Prime Minister didn't have to say anything about that. We now have such a policy statement from a government member of a government that your party, Open Vld, is still part of. You were also in favour of this measure. I would therefore like to ask you, as an Open Vld Excellency, whether you are having this debate? I do not see Minister Van Quickenborne doing it within the government, nor does the Prime Minister. The broad framework of the budget has been agreed in the government agreement. You yourself have confirmed in the media that you actually had to do a budget exercise of EUR 3 billion. It has become one of EUR 2 billion. This is also reflected in the Court of Auditors' documents. You've landed on a variable effort of 0.3% and not 0.4%. However, that was agreed in the government agreement and the budgetary arrangements that have been made. I note that they are not respected. It's got to be the Prime Minister saying it's okay. It must be that the Deputy Prime Minister says he has no problem with saving 1 billion less. Will you be standing on the barricades guarding that Open Vld trophy? The budgetary framework is the beginning and end of each government. I do not see any of the Liberals making any real strong arguments for that. If you do not do so now, you will see the same thing next year in the next budget negotiations. Then there will be another budget exercise that is less ambitious than you yourself have advocated and taken care of in the coalition agreement. I'm assuming someone has to defend that Open Vld line in the government. Then I get the tax fraud. I pulled the entire file from the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you do not know that, but you can always ask for additional information about the budget negotiations. I just wanted to know what's right with the $1 billion. I got a very interesting chip. I even learned words. It says that for the period of this legislature, the government is counting on linear growth to make a prediction. Apparently, you, Madam Secretary of State, or the Minister of Finance, have just drawn a straight line. For example, 300 million automatically becomes 1 billion. The same note from the Finance Administration states that "a real evolution would be more oscillating in nature." I didn't know that word at all, obviously you did. Oscillating, that is, fluctuating. It must not therefore be assumed that the yield is linear in nature. It must be assumed that it will fluctuate a bit. It also states that, taking account of the recovery coefficient, 15% of the amounts are to be recovered. Not only the Court of Auditors but also your own administration Finance says that 1 billion revenue is air. Madam Secretary of State, are you defending this Open Vld line? Are you saying it's not right what's in there? With reference to nuclear energy, I can only conclude by saying that you may be the Flemish Bouchez. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u37	Mr Loones, you are waving an interesting note, but it is not clear to me where it came from. Is it from the Court of Auditors or from the administration? After all, you mentioned them both. Would you like to share that note with us, or should we ask them ourselves to get that information so that we can discuss it later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u38	You can simply ask your Minister of Finance. It is a note from the FPS Finance of 11 March 2021. I can give you the reference and then we can have the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u39	It's not a specific note?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u40	No, every budget debate has a dialogue between the Court of Auditors and the administration. Information is often exchanged between the Budget and Finance Department. As a Member of Parliament, you can request it. I can imagine that answers can be given to that note. If further debate is possible, I very much welcome it, because we too want to fight tax fraud. It is no problem that we are debating this at another time in the Finance Committee. It is a thick, very interesting bundle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u41	In the meantime, we have had a long day and night filled with interesting debates, questions and comments. Moreover, I find it very educational to attend, even if everything could be shorter. This gives me a good overview of all policy areas. I will not reopen the discussions and try to answer the questions I have been asked. That doesn't take away from me. I'd like to give you a few observations. The 2022 budget comes at a pivotal moment. We will have to continue to spend in the fight against corona and continue to support the frontline care providers, citizens and businesses. At the same time, we need to look ahead, think about what we want our country to look like after corona, and turn everything into concrete actions. That is what we have tried to do in this budget. That does not mean that I agree with your reading that this was not the case in 2021, Mr Loones. We have started budgetary recovery from the first moment. Of course a balance is something else. Also next year, we will look for the balance between giving oxygen for economic recovery, new policies and new challenges, including investments in the green digital economy and society on the one hand, and the road to budgetary recovery on the other. We must not, of course, clean up alone and not too hard. Then we could put that economic recovery at risk. Now that the economy is attracting faster and better than expected, we must also use this moment to guide the budget in the right direction. I would like to say the following about the economic context, because I would like to return to the growth figures. There was a lot of fuss about this in the general explanatory statement, but I do not think it is intellectually fair to accuse the government of having us record lower than average growth in Europe in 2022. That's why I'd like to give you all the figures. In 2021, Belgium recorded a huge growth, more than expected, i.e. 6%, which is higher than the average of 5% in the European Union. This is precisely because the Belgian economy has started faster than the economies of other Member States. Fast growth can also help to reap the fruits more quickly, so that is a positive fact. Other European countries experienced slower growth in 2021, so they experienced a slower rise, but they will make up for this in 2022. It is therefore logical that the average growth rate of the slower countries will be higher next year. In 2022, Belgium will achieve 2.6 % growth compared to a European average of 4.3 %, but that is precisely because other European countries have not yet experienced significant growth this year. Clearly, we have taken everything out of the box to support our citizens and businesses, and that proves to be successful. You may have followed the National Bank's webinar last week as a result of the autumn projections. The National Bank stated very formally that with the support of our government, a large wave of bankruptcies has been avoided, and the National Bank does not expect many bankruptcies anymore. The support of the government has been very efficient in this area, with which I quote almost literally. This, of course, has a high cost, resulting in the large deficit. Without these interventions, it would have been much worse in macroeconomic terms and we would have ended up in scenarios like in the 1930s. Then I'll get to inflation. It was said here that I would be an inflation nigationist. Well, nothing could be further from the truth. I have also repeatedly warned against inflation in committee. I also said that we should be vigilant about second-round effects, especially as they affect the competitiveness of our companies, since we have such an open economy. I have also warned against monetary hocus pocus in the past, putting money into circulation. Mr Van Lommel has rightly pointed out that this affects citizens' savings and hence their purchasing power. What I have said is that the impact of inflation on the budget is not so clear and that it cannot be calculated in real time. In this respect, no distinction has really been made between the long-term impact of inflation and the short-term impact. In the short term, the classic approach is that this impact is neutral for our balance, because expenditure is rising but at the same time government revenue. That can't be calculated for 100 % but it's about the same. By the way, the Court of Auditors has given me the right to do so. What I want to clarify is that in the long term there is a risk, due to rising energy costs and raw materials. Our economy and our budget balance can be negatively affected in the long term. Although I myself am a little less optimistic, and I am still not really convinced that inflation is temporary, the National Bank reassured me somewhat last week. I made my analysis on the basis of newspaper articles and on the basis of economists who have an opinion on them. The National Bank does carry out very serious analyses in this area, and it assumes that inflation is indeed temporary and that we should not therefore expect wage-price spirals. In the long term, therefore, inflation would fall again. She would be a temporary phenomenon. However, the National Bank warned that the higher wage costs resulting from automatic indexation will temporarily put our companies in a worse competitive position vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries, and that it is therefore essential that we maintain the wage standard, which is part of the 1996 Law, in order to keep the jobs in Belgium. We will follow this very closely, and I have already said this in committee, because, of course, companies are the main partners in increasing the level of activity in our country. The National Bank also said that we absolutely must ensure that there are buffers for future shocks. I fully endorse that. Buffers will of course only succeed if public finances are sound. This brings me to the efforts made by this government to work towards fiscal recovery and fiscal sustainability. It has been mentioned several times that this government is making an effort of 2.4 billion, or 0.5 % of gross domestic product, taking into account the securities tax that was already accelerated in 2021. On top of the fixed effort of 0.2 % we do a variable effort of 0.3 %. You pointed out that I wanted to go a little further. That was based on what was in the coalition agreement. I will also continue to stress in the future that we need to achieve this. You may have seen the webinar, in which the President of the National Bank supports me in this. It is sometimes claimed that these efforts do not take place. Of course, we are not avoiding new challenges and some of them are being compensated, but in any case we are releasing resources for new policies. That makes sense. However, we remain firmly convinced that one-off measures will continue to be taken to combat the virus in all its facets. The 0.5 % is thus achieved effectively. Pretending all this is easy is easy in itself. It has also been said today that 1 billion additional resources will be made available for investments such as digitalisation and the green economy. This is in addition to the European funds of the Recovery Fund and the 328 million euro already foreseen in the budget control in 2021. In another debate, you referred to my definition of investment. In committee, I said that an important element of investment for me is that there is an added value, that there are therefore revenues. It is therefore crucial for me that we analyse these revenues both in advance and afterwards. If one cannot calculate that and if there is no clear added value, it is difficult for me to regard something as an investment. However, that discussion will continue in any case, including with my colleague Mr Dermine. The government will make a strong commitment to security, as provided for in the government declaration, and the necessary funds are also provided for this. That is not only true for the Justice Department, but also for the Home Office and the police. It is always difficult to talk about the negotiations and exact budgets, but, as Minister Verlinden said, we are studying the margins. As soon as they are clear and the negotiations are concluded, we will tell you exactly how they will be integrated into the budget. I have already said that savings are not on their own. The key to labour market reforms and taxation is important. The increase in the employment rate in Belgium is crucial and is the necessary condition for the recovery of Belgian public finances. With savings alone, we will certainly not be able to achieve that. For this reason, no less than 35 measures were envisaged to reform our labour market, with various measures to return long-term sick people who wish to do so to the labour market. Mr Verherstraeten rightly stressed how important and innovative that is. Some do that as if it were nothing and there were no measures for it, but I have seen all the negotiations on it and it was a crucial element of the budgetary negotiations. These are 35 concrete measures that will increase the level of activity. I really want to underline that. That is certainly worked out, and that will bear fruit. The measures range from training people to work in bottleneck professions to more flexible e-commerce systems. There are 35 very different measures which will have an effect. I am sure that the previous government would have taken care of all of this if it were so simple. Well, we're doing that now. Of course, this isn't the end of the story. It goes without saying that we will have to continue to take measures and that we will have to continue to reform the labour market in the following years, depending on the economic situation, together with taxation. The first steps have already been taken in this area. There is the greening of commercial vehicles and there are other taxes that must guide our behaviour, as was also provided for in the government agreement. The government agreement also stated that we would reform taxation and encourage work. We are. The BBSZ benefits the working middle class. We also do something for child care. There is no clearer choice for the working man. Labour economist Stijn Baert recently said that it may seem small, but it is a very sensible measure. It's a choice to pamper the working man. It is mainly an emancipating measure because it gives women in particular the opportunity to work. I think that's very important myself. Professor Baert is generally positive about the agreement because, according to him, it makes work pay more. That is a different picture from the picture of a tax government that Mr Vermeersch tried to sketch. By branding all new income as taxes, he claims that we are a tax government. Better collecting or correcting cases that have been distorted in the past and creating a level playing field for tax purposes, for example by charging VAT on small products coming from abroad such as China, are not new taxes. This will ensure coherence and the measures we are implementing will actually be implemented. It is therefore not a question of new taxes but of better tax collection. I am thinking of measures to combat fraud. Those aren't new taxes. Higher revenues from higher employment are certainly not new taxes. A shift of burdens is therefore not a new tax. Collecting traffic fines is no tax at all. In this sense, it is advantageous for the budget to impose more fines. I welcome that. Mrs Dillen also said that better collection of certain amounts due should be done in the area of justice. There was also a question about anti-fraud revenue. This brings us back to the basic principle. We are strongly committed to this because we consider it important. Mrs Verlinden said the same thing. Mr Van Peteghem is responsible for the realisation of these revenue. I'm sure this can be done. We can look at how Secretary of State De Backer did this in the previous legislature in the fight against social fraud. Smartly aligning databases and the like and controlling them in a smart way can lead to a lot of efficiency. I am convinced that Minister Van Peteghem intends to do the same. There are a number of things that do not make it easy for us, especially those that make our margin for greater effort particularly small. The budgetary recovery will be one of the biggest challenges for the coming years, in addition to the blurring of corona variants. But there is also the ageing population that is now rapidly emerging. I said that in committee too. The ageing population will ensure that social benefits rise very quickly. You may recall slides on the impact of ageing on public finances. The budgetary cost of ageing will increase by as much as 1.3 percentage points of GDP between 2022 and 2026. Pension expenditure and expenditure in the health sector will continue to increase. Social expenditure as a percentage of GDP rises to 30% in 2050. In 2019 that was only 25 percent. This means that current prices will be added to around EUR 1 billion a year. From 125 billion in 2019 to 150 billion in 2050. The direct consequence is the displacement of social expenditure on other primary expenditure such as in security departments or on the federal deficit. Not only does social security swallow up a lot of resources, but also the federal system. That is certainly not a reproach to the federated entities, but it is a sober, painful finding. Of the EUR 136 billion available to the federal state in 2022, only EUR 17.4 billion will be available to finance EUR 35.5 billion in expenditure after the contributions of the Regions, Communities and Social Security. In my view, the awareness of this inconvenient truth of the Belgian budget is too little known. Consequently, the challenge of getting Belgian public finances in order cannot only be solved by cutting or saving on that federal primary expenditure. Even though the challenges are enormous and it is difficult, we will deal with them. That's my ambition. I'm picking up that glove. We need to reduce the deficit and public debt. That is my conviction and I am fully committed to it. Indeed, the deficit currently stands at 16.6 billion euros or 3.2 % of gross domestic product. After the stabilisation of debt rates in 2022, our debt will indeed increase if we do not make an additional effort and do not pursue strict fiscal policies in the coming years. In the coming years, I will continue to stress the need to implement labour market reforms and continue to push for as much effort as possible. Finally, the 2022 budget is not only a pivotal moment, but also a starting point for a path that we will have to maintain for as long as possible. What's in store is a preview. A strict follow-up remains necessary. The flare-up of the corona pandemic is a major risk factor that has already manifested itself. In view of the extension of the aid measures as a result of the current wave, I will be putting down a first update sheet in Parliament shortly. As I have already said, we are now on the road with a real budgetary policy. Last time it was an earlier technical budget with an effort, but now the focus is on getting public finances in order. With this second budget, we are really getting on with the budget path. I hope that I have been able to give you sufficient answers and some reservations about the debate today. Finally, I would like to thank the chairman and members of the Finance and Budget Committee and all the other representatives of the people for the respectful and constructive way in which we have worked over the past year. I also wish all Members and colleagues of the Council of Ministers a happy and healthy 2022!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, it is a long day, but it proves that it is useful that you should be the last to answer a series of questions that have arisen throughout the debate. I want to thank you for the outstretched hand. There are indeed a number of issues that we will include further in the committee, such as inflation, the definition of investment and the fight against fraud. Are the expenses under control or not? I've seen the National Bank's webinar. On 15 December, the Court of Auditors also published an interesting study on the effectiveness of the Corona aid measures by the federal government, among others. There's margin for improvement. As far as security and police expenditure is concerned, I understand that the negotiations are ongoing. From your answer, however, I would point out that we may be faced with a more budgetary question. We shall then look at that when Parliament receives that information. In your opinion, much has already happened in the field of labour market reforms. I can only conclude that you have not yet convinced the Court of Auditors and therefore neither have we. The Court of Auditors still considers the payback effects to be too positive. You refer to the fact that the previous government has dropped. That is a very political debate. I can then start with the job deal that hasn't been done. In your opinion, it is easy to pretend that it is easy to get the budget in order. However, it is always good to look over the wall. If your budget is compared with that of the other countries of the European Union, then you are not doing well. Belgium belongs to the group of countries with deficits of more than 5%. It is not easy indeed, but there are many countries in the European Union that are doing much better. Nor is it easy in those countries. Last year economic growth was stronger, which, according to you, makes us grow less in 2022. That's just the debate. That's what Mr. Dermine was about. It was about the European recovery funds that we get through the corona fund. The unfairness in that European system is that we are being paid for a year in which we have grown a little faster, which means we will get less money, while we will grow weaker next year, but still be fined. The fact that we are the outlier is to our disadvantage and not to our advantage because there has been poor negotiation at European level. Prime Minister De Croo made a bad deal there and that has to be appointed. You can calculate averages as much as you want, and that is all right, but the point is that it is at our disadvantage, and not even a little bit, to potentially EUR 1.3 billion. As far as tax reform is concerned, this is going to be a debate that we will of course follow. You replied to it in your reply, but you did not mention something. The Prime Minister said in the government agreement that we would do nothing with it, that it would be for the next legislature. Today, in the debate, we have said that it wants to see this in 2022. I thought that was a very remarkable statement by the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. They want to see this tax reform in 2022. You will also want to see it, because it will have a budgetary impact. In any case, the European Commission does not believe in it. When the government said that it wanted to use this tax reform as collateral for the European Recovery Fund, the European Commission asked not to start it, because it wouldn't work anyway. Two more points. Are you a tax government or not? That was not my statement, but I would point out that the Court of Auditors says that the measures taken to get your budget in order are mainly on the revenue side and that you have repeatedly been asked whether the ratio 1/3/1/3 has been respected. You never wanted to quantify it, the Court of Auditors does. Also in the fascinating documentation we have requested, there are nice tables where you can see that more is happening on the revenue side than 1/3. You say that the federal government has too little budget to finance its core tasks, especially given a number of tasks ahead, such as ageing and health care. The budgetary challenges are indeed enormous. I'd like to use that to invite the federal government to stop funding cases for which it's not competent. That would be a start. For example, the federal government is not competent for foreign trade, but it still puts a lot of money in it. She can very easily stop doing that. We have tabled an amendment and colleagues will have to push the green button later and you will undoubtedly be happy as Secretary of State for the Budget. If everyone does their own job and wipes it at their own door, the street is also clean. Will you represent the Open Vld vote in the government? From your answer, I would say that you would like to do so. I would like to encourage you to do so. After all, it will be necessary. The budgetary arrangements made in the government agreement are not respected in this first serious budget. The exercise is lower than what was agreed. I put the question to Minister Van Peteghem. He said he wouldn't make a big deal out of that. You say that you want to stick to that at the next budget round. I would very much encourage you to do so. Perhaps there is a Flemish Mrs Bouchez in you, but that will tell the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u43	Madam President, I would like to make this point public rather than at the Conference of Presidents. The debates on the State of the Union in October lasted 35 hours. There was then a general consensus that we should not do this anymore, that we should not repeat it. Now, after more than 21 hours of debate, we have to note that we have not succeeded in this. I really regret that. The time has really passed when the quality of a debate is measured by its duration or by whether or not it involves a night sitting. That's an old-fashioned way of debating things. We can really be more efficient. I agree with Mr Sophie De Wit that we need to review the rules. We cannot have such a debate twice a year. That's not like this anymore. So I would really like to ask for a thorough evaluation of this debate at a forthcoming Conference of Presidents. We need to see whether we can change the rules so that we can debate them more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u44	Madam President, we must have this conversation with a fresh head. I'm always open to exchanging thoughts. Mr De Vriendt, the reasoning works in both directions. Indeed, the quality of a debate is not measured by the duration. All I can say is I learned a lot today. I have heard a number of interesting speeches, which I shall continue to work on in Parliament. This also applies to Mrs De Bleeker's very last speech, for which I would like to thank you once again. A short debate is not necessarily a good debate, but we will still have that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u45	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u46	We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2022. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (22911) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2022. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2291/1) The bill has 20 clauses. The draft law has 20 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u47	• 6 – Theo Francken cs (2291/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u48	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved item, the attached table, as well as on the entire bill containing the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2022, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained and the article retained, the table in the annex and on the whole of the draft law on the Resources Budget for the financial year 2022 will take place later. We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the General Estimates for the fiscal year 2022. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2292/1) We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2022. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2292/1) The Bill includes clauses 1.01.1 to 6.01.2. The draft law covers Articles 1.01.1 to 6.01.2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u49	• 99 – Vanessa Matz (2292/41)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u50	• 78 Marco Van Hees (2292/41) • 90 – Peter Buysrogge cs (2292/41) • 48 Wouter Vermeersch cs (2292/41)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u51	Theo Francken cs ( 2292/41 ) • 98 – Vanessa Matz (2292/41)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u52	• 96................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2292/41 ) • 83 – Nabil Boukili (2292/41) • 92 Koen Metsu cs (2292/41)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u53	• 88 – Theo Francken (2292/41)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u54	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and Article 1.01.2 reserved, the attached tables, as well as on the whole bill containing the General Estimates for the budget year 2022 will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the Article 1.012, the tables in the annex and on the whole of the draft general budget for expenditure for the financial year 2022 will take place later. The articles of the draft programme law (No. 2349) will be discussed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u55	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1678/2) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1678/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Wollants, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u56	The vote on the budget will take place at a later date. The vote on the budget will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u57	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs, MM. Flahaut and Vermeersch, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u58	Madam President, I would like to intervene briefly because it is an important dossier. It is about the financing of the political parties. That's gonna get some media attention. At the request of the majority, an exercise has been launched to save 1,11 %, by analogy with the other administrations, while the indexing of 2 % increases the actual amount in reality. That's fun with people. You can't do that! That is why we have tabled an amendment to that text in order to abolish this indexation. Then there will be a clear gradual phasing-out of these budgets. Other parties have even put forward more far-reaching proposals. What's on the table here is a tiny step that really isn't enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u59	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u60	• 3 – Wouter Vermeersch (2369/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u61	The vote on the amendments and the 2022 budget of the House of Representatives and the staffing of political parties will take place at a later date. The vote on the amendments and budget 2022 of the Chamber of Representatives and the donation to the political parties will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u62	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Leysen, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u63	The vote on the accounts for the budget year 2020, the budgetary adjustments for the year 2021 and the budgetary proposals for the year 2022 will take place at a later date. The vote on the accounts for the financial year 2020, the budgetary adjustments for the financial year 2021 and the budget proposals for the financial year 2022 will take place later. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the end of the budgetary elements on the agenda of our plenary meeting today, knowing that this day also includes the night. I thank all those who have been present until the end and, in particular, the Secretary of State, who was very brave to accompany us throughout this day. She responded acutely and with a great deal of sense of responsibility to the last questions asked of her. I also thank all the services that have accompanied us, especially the interpreters who are still in the cabin. Our debates take place mainly in Dutch, which sometimes unbalances services. The staff knows what I'm talking about. I thank all the staff who have accompanied us so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip152x.u64	The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, December 22, 2021 at 9 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 22 December 2021 at 09.00 a.m.
