ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u1	We'll start work again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u2	Madam President, a comment was made this morning on the Covid Safe Ticket for young people. I did not respond to that, but I would like to give you precise information on this. It is important that children and young people know that the Covid Safe Ticket is also useful for them and how to do it. This morning, a member of the committee wondered how to ask children for a Covid Safe Ticket when they visit their grandparents in a residential care center. This can be perfect. Young people from 12 years of age are perfectly capable of downloading and using the CovidSafeBE app. This is not always easy for young people, because they need to be able to handle the authentication for the application. For young people, however, there is another option: they can download the necessary certificates via their parents' application and forward them to their smartphone. Then it's on there, too. A third option is to print the Covid Safe Ticket on paper and put it in your pocket. If young people have questions about this, they can look at the "frequently asked questions" section on the covidsafe.be website, for questions 28 to 30. It explains how children and young people can use the Covid Safe Ticket, even when they are out without their parents. It is argued that it might be a good idea for young people and children to use the Covid Safe Ticket only if they visit their grandparents in a rest home. It's a misunderstanding they can't. The frequently asked questions 28 to 30 on the covidsafe.be website explain how it is perfectly possible for children and young people to use the Covid Safe Ticket independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u3	Thank you for this supplement. I'd like to correct something myself. I hadn't seen Mrs. Depoorter's Zoom Hand this morning. I want to give her the floor now, but apparently she's not here yet via Zoom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u4	Mrs Depoorter has informed us that she is unable to attend until 2 p.m. She had another meeting about noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u5	Then I suggest we start with the next topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u6	Madam President, Minister, we are now having a topical debate on the emergence of different variants. I've been talking about this for a while. You didn't talk about it at the time, but the question is the same. The delta variant is now really dominant in our country and is much more contagious than the other variants of the coronavirus. Microbiologist Emmanuel André strives instead of going back two days, to go back seven days when asking about the different contacts a person has had. The whole idea of the performance of our tracing policy, which is still not in order, and I have already mentioned this this morning,...... indicates the following. When we look at the most recent bulletin, we notice that good 8,000 people are a high risk contact. We see that only 6,000 of them carry out a test. These tests show a very high positivity ratio. Immers, 17% positief test. It is therefore clear that tracing remains very important. My question is as follows. Do we adapt the tracing strategy according to the virological behaviour of the different variants? Has Mr Emmanuel André's proposal been discussed? My question dates back to the time when he announced to the public why he believed that the tracing strategy should change. What happened to the advice? Has the opinion been discussed at the RAG?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u7	I have no questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u8	Mrs Gijbels wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u9	The vaccines would protect slightly less against the delta variant than against the alpha variant on which most vaccines were initially focused. What are the consequences for the Covid Safe Pass? It is assumed that two shots are sufficient to be safe, but one is stuck with the delta variant. Wouldn't it be more useful to stick to wearing a mouth mask and keep your distance instead of relying on the Covid Safe Pass, for example when young people visit elderly people in a vulnerable environment, such as a rest home? Secondly, this variant would spread faster and be more contagious, especially for the non-vaccinated population. What is its impact on natural immunity? Is that taken into account? I find very little data on this. We do have data on the care staff and blood donors, but very little is looked at in the general population. I wonder what impact this has on policy. Finally, what exactly does the delta variant affect the vaccination rate to be achieved? Can you explain how this has been achieved? Is it indeed greater than was originally suggested?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u10	Madam President, I shall first respond to the questions raised by Mrs Rohonyi, among others. I will then return to the questions raised by Mrs Merckx and the other members. The delta variant, as we know, has become dominant in Belgium and the rest of Europe. Virtually all infections are now delta infections. It is therefore no longer necessary to detect this variant. Genomic monitoring is currently focused primarily on early detection of potential new variants. We are not aware of a different symptomatology for covid-19 infections by the delta variant, and in any case, there is still no scientific publication on this subject. On the other hand, studies have been conducted on possible differences in symptoms for this infection between vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. There are some differences, as the symptoms are lighter in vaccinated people. Efforts are being made to improve genomic surveillance in order to better link serious diseases or deaths to different variants. On the other hand, we know, through studies in other countries, that the delta variant carries a higher risk of hospitalization. Furthermore, we know that currently 99.5% of all covid cases in Belgium are caused by the delta variant, and therefore deaths and covid hospitalizations can currently be attributed to this variant. In data from the United Kingdom, the number of complications in pregnant women was indeed higher in recent months than in previous data. Given that with the delta variant the evolution of the disease is more serious in general, it is expected that this increased severity will also occur in pregnant women. In addition, it is possible that more women may have been in contact with the virus due to the relaxation of measures. Given the risks associated with covid-19 during pregnancy, pregnant women had been identified in April as a priority group for vaccination by the Higher Health Council. This information had been made widely available. Ms. Rohonyi, the number of hospitalizations due to contamination increased from 7 in 100 (November and December 2020) to 2.5 in 100 (August 2021). This is therefore a significant decrease. We have information on the age and vaccination status of people who have been infected, but not yet on co-morbidities. This information is contained in the weekly epidemiological report of Sciensano in points 3.1 and 3.5.2. A higher incidence of new contamination is observed in young people (10-19 years and 20-39 years). In addition, the incidence of contamination is also higher in unvaccinated individuals (265 cases per 100,000 in the last week) than in fully vaccinated individuals (only 44 cases per 100,000 in the last week). When we compare these two figures, we see a very significant report. This really needs to be explained to the population. This is not zero contamination, but it is much less common among those who have been vaccinated. You will find all this information on the profile of hospitalized patients in a document on the Sciensano website. These clinical data were shared with external medical and scientific partners: the Public Health FPS, the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE), the Belgian Intensive Care Society, the University of Hasselt, the University Hospital of Leuven, the University Hospital of Ghent, the Belgian Society of Hematology, the Belgian Society of Medical Oncology, the Institute of Tropical Medicine, the Catholic University of Leuven, etc. A wide sharing of these data is therefore taking place. Moreover, a request for data can always be made on the Sciensano site. Mrs. Rohonyi, you also had some questions about the indications for treatment with tocilizumab and baricitinib, in addition to dexamethasone. They are still being evaluated by the European Medicines Agency. A Royal Order was drafted to administer monoclonal antibodies to patients who are at high risk of clinical deterioration less than 10 days after the onset of covid-19 symptoms and after multidisciplinary consultation between the hospital physician, the infectious physician and the immunologist. Sciensano publishes monthly updates and guidelines on the basis of the latest evidence, including the degree of evidence. Dexamethasone is routinely administered to hypoxia patients in all hospitals. Tocilizumab is given on a case-by-case basis after assessing the benefits and disadvantages of treatment for the patient in question. I refer again to the guidelines. Treatment guidelines for hospitalized covid-19 patients are updated monthly. You will also find them on the Sciensano website. Mrs Merckx, you referred to statements by Emmanuel André, who is also a very important scientific source for me. He said that one should actually go back seven days in time. The question is whether our investigation policy is up to that challenge. Based on the agreement concluded by the RIZIV with the National Reference Centre and the reference laboratories, 5 to 10% of positive samples for genome sequencing are collected from a number of cooperating clinical labs, with additional samples in case of risk travel, cluster outbreaks or other indications for possible new variants. From the NRC and the RAG, all evolutions at world level are also closely monitored. We are following the strategy recommended by the European Union. Emmanuel André's proposal has indeed been discussed and it has also given rise to proposals from the inter-federal committee on adjustments to the backward tracing strategy, which were adopted by the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We will maintain our search strategy and strengthen its enforcement. This is an entire chain, which begins, for example, when the PLF is completed, when it is controlled by carriers at the border, when an invitation to test is sent out in time, when it is followed up and when the quarantine is respected. For example, the last Consultation Committee decided to carry out a second test on day 7 in situations where day 1 testing is carried out without any further quarantine obligation. Next day we will also proceed with the removal of the PLF on paper, as the processing of the paper PLF takes much more time than is desirable for a proper follow-up. Chairman: Thierry Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u11	Minister, you say that Emmanuel André's proposal was discussed by the RAG, but your answer is not really clear. In practice, however, the strategy has not yet changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u12	I doubt a little about going back to seven days in time. If we ask for a second test to be carried out on day 7, the logic is to ask people to think about all their contacts if they are infected abroad or after high risk contact. In my opinion, the formal directive is still going back two days. I believe, however, that the assumption is that one goes back further if one is tested on day 7. You will find that I have a little doubt now too, so I will ask you to do so and I hope to give you a clearer answer in the course of this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u13	Indeed, Minister, the problem remains, partly because a number of people do not allow a test to be carried out. I was just talking about the source research. Our testing policy, noticeable by the infection rates, and our detection policy are completely inadequate. From the outset, the PVDA pointed out that this bureaucratic organisation cannot quickly switch over. In-depth investigation, to find out where a person was infected or to actually test all the contacts of the infected person, does not appear possible. I therefore call for a tracking policy, a tracking policy, which is closer to the population. We need to get rid of that bureaucracy. If necessary, we need to be able to switch quickly. Expert Emmanuel André said two months ago that we should actually go back to seven days. We are now mid-September, but it is still not happening, unless you give me another answer this afternoon. As a general practitioner, I am familiar with the situation on the ground, and so I can see that detection is still as bureaucratic as ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u14	Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive answers. They are very useful because they highlight the effectiveness of the vaccine, whether in terms of contamination, hospitalization or death, especially in the face of the Delta variant, which, as you said, is today more than predominant, but also and above all much more contagious and virulent. You also mentioned studies of vaccine effectiveness. It was important to hear from you and to make this data available, accessible and readable to the Lambda citizen who does not have to consult these studies. Everything you have told us today must be accessible in one way or another on the Internet as well as on social networks in order to inform the citizen as best as possible and to convince undecided or reluctant people. On the other hand, I am disappointed with the new Mu variant, which is of great concern to the international authorities. I did not get an answer on this. You explained that genomic surveillance is more focused on other variants than the Delta and should therefore be focused on the Mu variant. What lessons can then be drawn from this? Unfortunately, the issue remains open. For the rest, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u15	Does Mrs Gijbel still wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u16	Minister, the KCE summarized the latest studies on long covid and concluded that not 1 in 10 but 1.5 in 10 people develop long covid. After three months, up to 36% of these people still have complaints and some have been since the first corona wave. On 30 August, in an article in the newspaper Towards the Future, the post-covid patient association claimed that since June 2020, many contacts had taken place, many promises had been made but none had been implemented. On 16 March, Parliament approved a resolution calling on the government to consider how long covid costs could be included in the maximum amount to be charged, and above all – one of its important demands – to make revalidation programs, including physiotherapy, more accessible. She also asked the government to do a statistical assessment with Sciensano of the number of patients with long covid. The patients' associations took matters into their own hands and organized a survey at 30 Flemish hospitals via Icuro. Twenty hospitals say they're offering something to lung covid patients. However, patients are lost today between the different specialists who do not really work together multidisciplinaryly, according to the survey. My questions are clear. Patients who suffer from long covid call for actions to succeed words. Did you hear their alarm cry? What concrete steps have you taken in the wake of the resolution that was approved in Parliament? Have you discussed with the field associations? What new measures will you take in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u17	Mr President, I would like to clarify something about my earlier reply on the two versus seven days. In the contact search "Who was potentially infected?" We go back two days in time. It's gonna stay that way. The seven days relate to the source detection: "Who infected someone?'. In addition, we go back to seven days. However, this is often not easy. When a person is asked after a positive test what he or she has done in the last seven days, that person cannot always answer immediately. The seven days therefore apply to the source detection, the two days are for the further contact detection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u18	Thank you for this clarification, which concerns this morning's topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u19	Mr President, Minister, if I have targeted physiotherapy, it is because every time I ask you about long covid, you are irritated by saying that I always come back to the same subject. If I come back to the same subject, it's because I've mobilized a lot for these patients. First of all, as well as many parties of the majority, you said that there was no other measure to be taken in addition to the existing measures for all patients. And then things have changed. I moved the lines. A motion for a resolution was adopted. In the debate on this subject, I had asked for the vote – which was not supported by the majority – of an amendment to allow for the management and reimbursement of more physiotherapy sessions for patients with long covids. We must no longer demonstrate how vital it is! The scientific studies and international literature have clearly highlighted this. At the time, some parties had justified their attitude by saying that they would vote against it because that provision would be put in place. Today, six months later, patients still cannot benefit from a larger number of paid physiotherapy sessions. Minister, after some of the statements following the proposal I made, will you allow the long covid to be added to the list of heavy kine-type E pathologies, which allows more sessions for patients with chronic diseases? It is vital to do so for patients with long covids. The faster and better we intervene in revalidation, even for patients who have not been hospitalized or who have not been hospitalized in intensive care, the faster these patients recover. It's positive for both patients and public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u20	We are in a topical debate. This gives the other members the opportunity to intervene either in questions or in replies. Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u21	I just want to point out that we don't know everything about lung covid yet. I think there's some reluctance in her place and we shouldn't label it as a chronic condition right away. This also has other consequences. However, given the existing scientific evidence demonstrating the importance of kinesi therapy for the patients in question, we should at least move towards a regulatory framework, if necessary temporarily. For example, these patients can be prescribed what they need and what will actually help them recover. Minister, where are we with that? When do these patients receive higher benefits for more kinesi therapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u22	The resolution adopted in the Chamber on the issue of long covid is an important starting point. It is a list of proposals which we regularly re-examine. This resolution will be used to check the progress made by our policies. First of all, I would like to stress this. It is also important that we try to establish good contact and dialogue with the patients concerned and their interest groups. That also works: last week there was a meeting between representatives of the RIZIV, staff of my policy cell and patient organisations, where many themes have been discussed. A difficult point for everyone, certainly for the patients, but in my view also for the caregivers and in fact for you and me too, is that scientific insight needs to be built up, but it is only gradually growing. This is also important, for example, when it comes to the role of kinesitherapy. I'll get to that in a minute. More generally, scientific insight is growing, albeit gradually. We always have to wait a little bit for that. However, it is better to work on the basis of a good scientific understanding than to make decisions that may be premature. I think that is the same caution with Mrs Gijbels. I have not yet said that she is necessarily in agreement with me, but she also calls for caution and not hasty decisions to be taken, but on the contrary to think carefully on the basis of the data we have at our disposal. I want to remind you that we have an Evidence-Based Practice Network. We started a project on September 1st, in which clinical questions were formulated regarding the correct follow-up and rehabilitation of covidpatents in the first line after discharge from the hospital. I refer to what Mrs Gijbels said about this. One has to look at the whole thing, it is about post-covid with a part long covid. We want to come up with a directive on the follow-up and rehabilitation of these people in the first line after discharge from the hospital. The clinical questions are formulated. The project just started. On 28 October, the guidance committee meets to validate the clinical questions. You know that the Knowledge Centre also continuously brings together all possible elements and publishes them in an assigned section of the Knowledge Centre website. That's important. You know that there is also a study in which patients are questioned. That study is on schedule, but this takes time. I think there was a validation meeting yesterday by experts and today's recommendations will be reviewed with stakeholders, including patient associations and governments. The report will be presented on 19 October on the Board of Directors of the Knowledge Centre. The publication is scheduled for October 25th. There are a number of other things in the pipeline, but I'll pass on that. Then I come to the clinical trials on lung covid. In June we kept five study proposals. A second selection round for clinical trials is scheduled for September 28th. That's a long-term job, but I think we should give science time as well. We also need to look beyond the borders. The patient associations have established a European patient association with a non-profit organisation structure, so that they can also be active within the WHO. We have promised them to use our contacts within the WHO to facilitate their contacts with the WHO and to include them on the European agenda. Based on the approach of patients, the RIZIV is still looking at the adequacy of the maximum invoicing. In principle, the maximum invoice should cover all medically well, but this is still a concern. I dare to conclude that there is often a problem. How does the maximum invoice work? What can one expect from it? This doesn't mean she's working perfectly, but it's being worked on. What is also being worked on is the elaboration of a screening tool and multidisciplinary consultation. Last week there was a first consultation between the RIZIV and the Scientific Association of Flemish General Doctors and the universities. On 6 October they come together again, then the mutualities and patient associations are invited. The employees of the Evidence-Based Practice Network are also involved, because if one wants to set up a screening tool and organise a multidisciplinary consultation, one really has to work on the basis of obviousness. Mrs Fonck, in fact, the answer to your question is somewhat in line with these steps. With regard to the management of kinesitherapy for long covid, my strategic cell and health authorities are examining how the specific care needs of covid patients can be met; in the most appropriate way possible. INAMI has been in contact with KCE, with specialist doctors involved in the rehabilitation of covid patients and with patient associations, and Axxon's proposal, the professional association representative of physiotherapists, has also been taken into account. As a first step, it seems important to me to clearly define who the patients concerned are and their health care needs and the most appropriate therapeutic approach to care to meet these needs. There is already clear evidence that physiotherapy and physical rehabilitation can play an important role in this care, but of course we also need to consider other possibilities. Currently, INAMI, in collaboration with the partners I have indicated, is working on a proposal for a scientifically sound and achievable approach. The extent to which a review of the number of individual physiotherapy sessions reimbursed for home-based patients can be integrated will certainly need to be verified, but it may be necessary to go further and seek a multidisciplinary approach. What about technical implementation, i.e. integration into the health care nomenclature, specific regulations, etc. and the duration of such measures? Is it structural? Or is it still temporary? That remains to be considered. These elements will depend on the approach that has been preferred and agreed upon. By this answer, I can tell you that we are working on it. I know it takes time and I also know that patients don't have time. The problem is that what is being proposed must be scientifically validated in order not to disappoint patients, either because the proposals are not working well, because the expected proposals are not coming, or because they are not sustainable, etc. This is an important subject and we continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u23	Minister, I understand that publication of studies takes time. In the meantime, the patients are here! It is therefore incomprehensible that they should give up the care provided by doctors or physiotherapists. This will result in new disabilities. While waiting to know the best treatment to be applied to a person with long covid, why not take certain measures already? This would make it very simple to increase the number of sessions reimbursed for physiotherapy. You know that, since you had previously reduced them. Most of the people who have been hit by the long covid have seen their lives upset. They don't live anymore! That's why we can't leave them on the tile after so many months of promises. There is a need to speed up the implementation of some of the very specific measures that have already been taken. Finally, in the face of uncertainty, methods should be used which are scientifically evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u24	A simple decision is not necessarily the right decision from a medical and scientific point of view. I'm not supposed to tell you that, am I, Mrs Merckx?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u25	Minister, I certainly think it's a real demand from patients for more sessions to be reimbursed. They feel better after these sessions. They need it. We've had a lot of testimonials from people who can't go out, etc. The physiotherapist has an essential role. There is no scientific evidence that eighteen sessions are sufficient to cure and can be reimbursed. We can at some point make a simple decision, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u26	Minister, giving time to science is one thing, neglecting the evidence-based approaches already known is in my view unacceptable. Do we know everything about long covid? No! Do we already know a lot of them? Yes! I'm not going to read it to you, I wouldn't have enough time in two minutes, I wouldn't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time, I won't have enough time. I'd like to send you back. Should we also remind you that the World Health Organization has called on all authorities in each country to make long covid a priority since 2020? In Belgium, the months go by and the answers remain the same: we examine, we go see, we work and during that time, the patients wait. There's more and more. I can understand that there is a phase of successive decisions that can be taken, but here we are still at the zero level and we have been there for months. This is totally unacceptable. I think, for example, that if there is a clearly demonstrated point, it is that of kinesitherapy. I think you're not making a decision and you're hanging around to save money on the budget and I think it might cost you a lot more and cost the state a lot more in a second time with much longer disabilities. On a more political level, let me tell you that when sp.a. was outside the government, he made great declarations and promises at zero cost to covid patients. The reality is quite different when the sp.a, now Vooruit, holds the reins of the Ministry of Health. I am telling you again: to postpone decisions that today are evidence-based and that are very concrete and positive for patients and to postpone them again to the end of October is not acceptable, Minister, neither for the patients concerned nor in an effective logic and vision of public health. Thank you, therefore, for paying much more attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u27	We are leaving the debate on the covid to continue with the topical debate on the floods that took place this summer. Some questions relate to the health aspects of this important issue and, more importantly, to health professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u28	Mr President, Minister, Wallonia was hit hard by deadly floods in July. Today, victims remain exposed to health risks as a result of long exposure to polluted water, hydrocarbons, wet and mould-invading walls, and other injuries. In order to help general practitioners in the affected areas who also lost everything in the floods, the Outbreak Support Team (OST) of Liège Centre-Ouest has created, thanks to the general medical department of l'ULiège and with the support of the CHU, a document supporting the medical consultation of people affected by the floods for general practitioners. This document, in addition to the recommendations of the health authorities, covers the specific problems that may arise under these exceptional conditions (skin symptoms, respiratory symptoms, digestive symptoms). In addition, legionellosis infections occur. Mr Minister, more generally, is there an emergency system in general medicine at the federal level to deal with such disasters with a health impact? Is a health watch organised at the federal level? What steps have been taken to ensure access to this document for all general practitioners in the cut-off areas of the world and for flood victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u29	Mr President, Minister, the physical and mental health problems and the social situation of those affected by the floods are still visible and palpable today. It is a real public health problem for the following months or even years. Many general practitioners, pharmacists and health centres have suffered direct damage and their equipment has been destroyed. In this situation, restrictive measures against covid (social dissociation and other measures) are much more difficult to implement. A number of caregivers (of whom I am a member) visited the victims to determine the medical needs on the spot. On the one hand, there is a difficulty in accessing medicines. I guess it's more or less solved. However, there is still a question of the number of caregivers who are still not operational. In addition, I am thinking of those people who, for days, haven't slept because of constant stress and a sense of abandonment. A brochure published by the Public Health FPS made me laugh softly, as it advises victims to eat healthy and try to get enough rest. How can such ridiculous advice be given? We know that their flooded houses are now invaded with mushrooms. Sometimes even these people don't own a chair anymore. When you are not properly housed and your home has been destroyed, you are unable to rest. We also had to see cases of chemical burns caused by the gas oil that had escaped. Minister, in terms of public health, what short- and long-term measures are you busy taking to reduce the impact of floods? What arrangements have been made for caregivers who have been affected? Do you have a clear idea of the number of general practitioners involved? How many caregivers are affected? What measures have you taken with respect to their mental health? Did this affect the vaccination campaign in flooded areas? Should this issue not be dealt with in a more federal way? It appears that, medically, the municipalities and the provinces are unable to solve the many problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u30	Minister, two main aspects need to be addressed. First, should public health measures related to floods and their consequences for disaster victims be taken? I am thinking, for example, of the risks of oil pollution. I am also thinking of infectious problems (development of fungi, etc.).). I imagine that these issues were discussed in the Interdepartmental Conference. The second aspect concerns possible support measures for caregivers. Some of them have been devastated. Others find it difficult to practice with patients and families affected and weakened. I am thinking in particular of general practitioners, home nurses, physiotherapists and pharmacists. Have any specific measures been taken? They seem to be all the more essential as autumn and winter arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u31	Mr President, the subject is extremely important in view of the dramatic events that occurred during the floods. I identify three major chapters in the members' questions. The first concerns the inventory of health professionals in disaster-stricken areas. The second is the communication of post-flood health guidelines to health professionals in affected areas. The third is the action taken to help health professionals in disaster-stricken areas. Before I answer these questions, I will remind you of the legal framework. The tasks of discipline 2 (medical, health and psychosocial assistance) are described in article 10 of the Royal Decree on Emergency Planning and Emergency Management. These include the establishment of a medical chain, the provision of medical and psychosocial care to the persons involved, their transportation, the measures to be taken to protect the health of the population, the establishment and management of the necessary infrastructure, including the shelter for victims, the telephone call centre, the data processing centre and the advanced medical post, and the establishment of lists of victims. These tasks are carried out by the services involved in the execution of emergency medical assistance, as well as by the services included in the single-disciplinary intervention plan, including the medical intervention plan and the psychosocial intervention plan. The Operational Directorate of Discipline 2 is the responsibility of the Director of Medical Assistance. The strategic direction of discipline 2 is the responsibility of the discipline manager, the federal health inspector assisted by the psychosocial manager. The tasks of the competent authority during strategic coordination are described in Article 30 of the same Royal Decree on emergency planning and emergency management. The competent authority, depending on the phase, is the mayor, the government or the Minister of the Interior. With regard to the census of affected health professionals, we do not know the exact number of such professionals affected by the floods. I would like to point out that the organisation of front-line medicine is a regional competence. In crisis management, we focused on the needs and rapid recovery of front-line medicine. Nevertheless, a questioning carried out by the two OSTs of the AviQ – which were made available to us as early as 17 July by the cabinet of the Minister of Regional Health, Mrs Morreale, at the request of the Federal Health Inspectorate – shows the following figures: the valley of Vesdre and Hoëgne between Limburg and Pepinster has 24 general practitioners affected. The valley of the Vesdre between Trooz and Liège has 21 general practitioners affected. The Urthe valley between Aywaille and Tilff has 11 general practitioners who have suffered. This represents a total of at least 56 affected general practitioners. The Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products has conducted a census of the pharmacies affected. I now turn to the actions taken. First, there is the communication of post-flood health guidelines to health professionals in affected areas. Since 15 July 2021 is still in the federal phase, texts with post-flood health guidelines for health professionals and citizens in affected areas were handed over by public health to the Com service of the Crisis Centre. We have worked according to these. As regards the needs assessment, the needs expressed were assessed by the OSTs. In addition, the Federal Health Inspector has commissioned medical directors, members of the Federal Health Inspectorate, the Red Cross, other relief disciplines and volunteers to conduct various recognitions in order to assess the needs and operation of health stations. The OST has thus carried out the following actions in coordination with the Federal Health Inspectorate and the Red Cross, which are acting in a contractual framework here. Primary care equipment was provided for the operation of nursing stations in which general medical services were provided. Containers were provided to some general practitioners for general medical consultations at the request of the federal health inspector. In addition, various practitioners were able to benefit from donations from treating physicians. These donations were coordinated by the Federation of Generalist Associations of the Walloon Region (FAGW). The Belgian Red Cross provided support for the transport of the equipment. Donations to the provincial solidarity unit, including care equipment, were distributed to health stations and OSTs by the provincial authority. Secondly, I can communicate some specific elements concerning the setting up of medical clinics pending the resumption of their activities by the suffering doctors: the creation of a sheet containing the most common diseases related to floods for general practitioners, the dissemination of a guide Prevention of post-traumatic stress to which you refer in your questions and, finally, after 1 August 2021, the establishment of paid clinics for nurses, nurses and front-line psychologists whose mission is mainly to facilitate the reintegration into the fabric of the existing offer. These are a whole series of actions that have been carried out from the OSTs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u32	As for the actions for the recovery of impetants, we have requested, via the provincial crisis cells, the restoration of electricity and telephone communications, including the internet, as a priority for pharmacies and general medical offices, in particular the restoration of electricity supply for V.Pharma's server in Verviers. The census of affected pharmacies was carried out by the AFMPS. Which brings me to the psychosocial framework. In this context, I would like to refer to the legislation in force. The acute care of psychosocial problems is a federal competence but the organisation of aftercare is a competence of the Länder. It is the psychosocial managers of the Public Health Office who coordinated the reception during the acute phase and identified the needs for aftercare so that the Länder could start work on this basis. The Flemish aftercare coordinator was very quickly involved in the consultation and the transfer was smooth. Two follow-up coordinators were appointed in Wallonia on 23 August. These were immediately involved and the transfer of knowledge, as well as the transfer of management of the psychosocial part, are still ongoing. The psychosocial needs of the population are monitored and identified by the staff responsible for the psychosocial aspects present at the locations where hot meals are distributed. For the aid workers in the broad sense, the internal prevention and protection service at work and occupational health services are strengthened in their psychosocial context. In addition to additional budgets, specific training pathways are provided for the employees of these services. This was an overview of actions that were carried out, always from the perspective of the responsibility of the Public Health Office and within the framework of the applicable legislation. At the end of the federal phase, those responsible for the FPS Health continued to work and contributed to support in the field, in particular participation in actions for affected aid workers and personnel services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers to the question of federal action in the context of the crisis. Rather, I expected follow-up action by those affected at the federal level; and measures that could be taken by the federal government to assist, in the longer term, general practitioners who have lost everything, who have also had to limit their activities, who also legitimately raise the question of whether they will be able to reach the threshold of activity sufficient to benefit from certain benefits. I am also thinking of all those regions which, as we see now, are facing an increase in covid contamination. For those people who have already lost everything, who face serious psychological problems, it's a bit of a double penalty. It is also known how important electronic health care is now to be able to benefit from care. I can put myself in the place of the person who lost everything, who doesn't even have an identity card to be able to simply have access to a test or a vaccine. I wanted to know a little more about the long-term follow-up of these affected people and the role of the federal government. But this problem will certainly be the subject of further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u34	Minister, thank you. I am personally also quite disappointed with the vagueness of the answer. However, it has been more than two months since the floods took place. The only known figure is that of 56 general practitioners affected. But we do not know if, today, they are all operational and if they manage to treat all their patients. It's kind of disappointing as an approach. On the number of pharmacists, you don't have numbers. With regard to the possible effect on covid vaccination in these regions, we also remain absolutely unanswered. For the rest, we have small rather vague elements on psychological follow-up. But the feedback I have from the ground is that the needs of the population are still very important, whether at the material level - we may not be going to address this - but also at the level of psychological follow-up. There, too, apparently no census is made of the number of currently ill victims and the pathologies from which they suffer. As with covid, we really have no health policy approach. I'm going back to this brochure. When you go to the news section of the Governor of Liège, you find a brochure. I suggest you read it again. For me, it's a real joke. It is certainly not someone who went there to see the conditions under which these people live who wrote the contents. I just saw that it says, "Repose" etc. It's really big shit. Second, it is also put: "Tell your doctor to take sleeping pills". That really asks me at the level of public health. I'm really disappointed with that approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u35	Does any other member wish to speak? [[(Non]] [[).]] This concludes our five current debates today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u36	Mr President, Minister, it has been a while since I asked questions about the cost per vaccinee. You have also replied in part. There's been a deal. However, I would have liked to have heard how the situation is being put into practice today. In other words, what is the fork according to which the payment to the regions has been agreed? Has that changed since the last time, when you gave the answer that there would be an agreement within the IMC that the most efficient method of vaccination would be used to calculate the cost per vaccinee on that basis? How high is that cost per vaccinee today? We have just had the debate on compulsory vaccination. It is quite clear that we live in different democracies and that there has been a very different approach to motivating care workers to vaccination. The result is what my party and I have been making very clear since April 2020, namely that in Brussels there was too little communication and too little motivation for healthcare providers to be vaccinated. As a result, there is a debate today on compulsory vaccination and it is being examined. However, this compulsory vaccination has a cost. Who's gonna pay for that cost? What is the federal government's intention in this matter? For example, what government will bear the cost of communication and the additional efforts that are being made today in Brussels? Is this also shared through the federal pot or will the Brussels-Capital Region itself pay for it? After all, Minister, there has been a laisser-faire mentality for a long time. You yourself indicated that efforts had to be made to reach more people and to be able to vaccinate. This has a cost both communicatively and organizationally. What's your point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, on the agreement, I can tell you that, in consultation with all the sub-areas, it has been decided to determine the cost per injection per setting, as there is a major difference in the cost of vaccination in the care facilities, where all the infrastructure is already in place, and vaccination in a vaccination centre, which was started out of nowhere. A fixed cost per cost component was therefore agreed. The cost components included are the purchase of the vaccines, syringes and needles, storage and distribution of the vaccines up to the vaccination centres, the communication costs, Vaccinenet+, registration and administration, consultancy, the cost per vaccinee in a vaccination centre and the cost per vaccinee in a collective facility. That's the deal. You ask me if I am aware of a substantial difference in cost between the regions. Each entity shall otherwise complete the concept and financing of the vaccination centre. As a result, it is not possible in practice to compare the different cost items between the regions meaningfully. During the aforementioned consultation to choose a cost per prick per setting, i.e. care facility or vaccination centre, there were differences between and within the sub-areas, depending on the concept. We just chose a cost per shot. You asked what I would do if there were substantial differences. A fixed cost per injection has therefore been agreed which will apply to all regions. Shall we encourage the regions to adopt financial orthodoxy? The regions are autonomous in determining the cost they themselves wish to pay for the vaccination campaign. To what extent will I communicate transparently about the cost per vaccinee in the different regions? The overview of actual costs is, of course, in the sub-areas. They have that overview because they travel the last mile in the vaccination campaign and have taken on the whole practical organisation of the vaccination centres. The federal level doesn't have those numbers. We pay a flat rate, a fixed cost per prick. What did we pay for the communication? The federal government has already paid 267,000 euros for communication around the vaccination. The federal government does not favour or harm any region. We pay just the same per setting, per prick, to each region. I didn't quite understand the underlying reason for your questions. No region is favoured or any other disadvantaged. We're just paying the same amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u38	It's just that amount I'd like to know. You have told me a few times that you pay a price per shot. I would very much have liked to hear from you, in the context of public administration, what cost you pay per injection per patient in a residential care centre or in a vaccination village. How much do you contribute to the different consultancy, communication and registration of patients? That is precisely where the major regional differences lie. You do not answer me and say that you do not have an overview of the costs in the Länder, but that overview is given very clearly through the inspection of finance, in the working group in which your cabinet is present, or in which at least the federal government is present. I will therefore re-apply my question. I would have liked to know what cost per injection is paid by the federal government to the regions. It is not a question of advantage or disadvantage, but of correct pricing, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u39	Thank you, Mrs Depoorter. Let's get back to the questions. Questions Nos. 55017948C, 55017949C, 55018776C, 55019557C and 55019720C by Mr. Patrick Prévot are postponed. The attached questions No 55018784C by Mr Rigot and No 55019300C by Mrs Jadin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u40	Minister, this question was put before you announced your new plans, but it remains topical. The Belgian Society for Psychotherapy has written to you about the impact of the crisis on mental well-being. The association is convinced that it can make a significant contribution to a solution. She represents an important number of Belgian professional psychotherapists who all meet the training criteria of the European Society for Psychotherapy. It is therefore considered that ECP holders, including professional bachelors with full-time psychotherapy training, have been sufficiently trained to be self-employed within the field of work, to alleviate the current increase in psychological complaints among the population and the pressure on the sector. You recently announced that everyone could go to the psychologist for 11 euros from 1 September. It now appears to be a two-year pilot project in practice. Since you do not have sufficient resources for this, only a third of psychologists will be able to participate. Psychotherapists fall out of the boat anyway. With the UPPSy-BUPsy, the criticism sounds that patients can only benefit from the reduced rate if they agree that the psychologist informs the GP. How many psychologists from the 32 networks have already entered a new convention? Is the EUR 150 million intended for the entire pilot project, or is it on an annual basis? The communication didn't make that clear. Are you planning further consultations with the associations that criticise your proposal? Do you agree that there is an urgent need for adjustments to allow more people access to qualitative and affordable psychotherapeutic care? How do you plan to realize this? Can you clarify the possible role of professional bachelors with full-fledged therapy training throughout this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u41	Mr. Secretary, I have questions about the distress call because of the psychologists. The Belgian Society for Psychotherapy apparently sent you a letter. Did you get that? More importantly, what is your response to the letter? What actions will you take to address the problems they raise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to discuss two different aspects. First of all, I would like to say something about the roll-out of first-line psychological aid and some of the criticisms that were made about it. This is an important debate and I would like to clarify a number of misunderstandings here. We will invest EUR 152 million on an annual basis, year after year EUR 152 million, in support of first-line psychological assistance. A convention has been approved for this purpose, which the RIZIV submits to the Network and Mental Health Care in Flanders and similar organisations in French-speaking Belgium. This convention lasts two years because we want to evaluate its impact and how it goes, not because it is an experiment, but 152 million euros is not a small experiment, but a historical and never seen investment in first-line psychological assistance. This investment is intended to continue, but in consultation with all the actors involved, we have explicitly opted for an evaluation after two years. The convention is now being rolled out and the Networks of Mental Health Care have been invited to join. Individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues who want to work in this convention are also invited to engage individually in this model. I hope that in October we will be able to cover a large part of the field with networks and individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues joining the convention. Mrs Merckx, I would like to point out that it really is a new offer. It is not the idea that everything that is happening today will be repaid. That idea is somewhat suggested, but that is not the intention. You say that those involved in the sector complain that only a limited number of sessions can be reimbursed, but it is absolutely not intended that all sessions provided should be refunded. However, it is intended to finance an offer that consists partly of individual sessions and partly of group sessions, which is a new and more efficient approach. That offer must be highly exploratory. This means that people experiencing psychological difficulties can immediately ask for help from a clinical psychologist or orthopedagogue in an easily accessible and inexpensive way, who then offers them one or a few sessions to explore the need for help and to decide what further needs to be done. If specialised psychological assistance is needed, for example in the case of depression or anxiety disorders, a switch must be made to a care provider who can offer specialist assistance. This transition presupposes that a functional balance is drawn up by a psychologist, but also by a doctor. This is in fact how a new offer is being made. It's not about just paying back everything that happens. I'd like to put it a little more clearly. About 60 years ago, a model of health insurance in this country saw the light of day when, as far as somatic medicine is concerned, it was based on the idea that there was a free supply provided by mainly self-employed doctors. On the basis of their therapeutic freedom, they offer the care that seems most appropriate to them personally. These are all individual performances, in individual relationships with individual patients, which are then reimbursed. Mrs Merckx, I am sure you will agree with me that the model of purely liberal medicine, which was set up 60 years ago, we have been working, working and reforming over the past 30 years to come up with another model. This resulted, for example, in a different form of financing of general practitioners' practices, including practical grants and the global medical record (GMD). There was also a partial change in the way in which funding was financed, which was still very imperfect and with very many problems of performance occurring in hospitals. The current model of individual performance that has to be repaid, and that is all, is not really the model in which we are thinking today about health care. We are thinking of an offer that should be based on cooperation, multidisciplinary, population-oriented, tested against conditions of effectiveness and efficiency. It is that what we want to achieve in first-line psychological care: multidisciplinary work, population-oriented work, work on the basis of evidention. And so not: pay back everything that is happening today; that is really not the intention. So if we use EUR 152 million, of course, that is far too little to pay back everything psychologists do today. No hair on my head thinks we'll ever do that. We want to organise a good offer of first-line psychological assistance. We want to finance that good offer. But that presupposes reforms in the way we work. For example: organise cooperation in networks and establish a very good communication with the GP. Make sure that when the GP treats someone, he is aware of what is happening in relation to the patient's mental health. When a psychologist, a clinical psychologist or an orthopedagogue considers that a specialised care course is needed, the doctor makes a functional balance of the patient and thinks about what needs to be done. That doctor could be the GP, or a psychiatrist. One can offer group sessions to people, for example, to discuss the problems they have in group. This is innovative in relation to what is happening today. It is not so obvious and there will undoubtedly be a lot of discussion about it, but that too is part of this convention. It is a story that needs to be innovative and that really needs to create a new kind of offer. I'll put it another way, Mrs Merckx. We do not intend to repay within the RIZIV a stand-alone, purely monodisciplinary, silo of individual relationships between psychologists and patients. What we have in mind is population-oriented. It's much more nuanced, it's multidisciplinary. That doesn't make it an easy exercise. That is why we choose a two-year convention, and then we will assess how that convention works. The amount we are paying for this is historically high. In the case of first-line psychological aid, that is more than four times. In relation to what was allocated to mental health care at federal level years ago, this is perhaps ten times in the current coalition agreement. This is an historic effort, but it must be well organised. That is the whole debate we have to have. I'm assuming you have ears for that. We must see this as a reform of the offer and not as a reimbursement of what exists. It needs to be handled better. For example, the budget allocated by Mrs De Block to first-line psychological aid, which was much smaller, was virtually unused. We have to ask ourselves why this has not been used. The problem is not that hundreds of millions of euros have to be prepared. The problem is that we need to ensure that the EUR 152 million is properly used. That's the challenge. Mr De Caluwe also referred to the problem of applying the law on health professions and the role of psychotherapists. We need to ensure that mental health care is provided by people with the right qualifications. The psychotherapy is a specialty. The importance of scientific support and the complexity of the evaluation in psychotherapeutic practice require that the basic training of the psychotherapist is at least of a master's level. The co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions therefore describes psychotherapy as a treatment and is exercised by a clinical psychologist, a clinical orthopedagogic or a doctor who has undergone psychotherapy training. Psychotherapy is therefore conceptualized as a treatment. The conditions attached to the training are also laid down in the law on the exercise of health professions. Acquired rights have also been established for those who have already been in psychotherapy or have already received training. Depending on the basic diploma, psychotherapy may be performed autonomously or under supervision. As is clear from the law, the group of professional bachelors referred to in the questions is not actually the group of health care professionals that are provided for autonomously to practice psychotherapy. They can only exercise psychotherapy under the supervision of an autonomous practitioner. They certainly have a role to play, but rather as a supportive mental health profession. However, the legal framework has not yet been defined for this purpose. An opinion on this is prepared by the Federal Council for the mental health professions. Psychotherapy is also not described by law as an occupation, but as a treatment form. No additional recognition is provided for practitioners, in addition to the recognition they already have as health care professionals. Psychotherapy was given a place in the law on the execution of health professions, so that the same quality guarantees and protection measures apply as for other healthcare professions. In addition, there is the group of practitioners who practiced psychotherapy before 1 September 2016 and who may continue to do so without restrictions according to the Constitutional Court's judgment until the unconstitutional nature of the judgment has been eliminated. We must find a quick solution to this problem. The Federal Council for Mental Health Care Occupations consists of health professions, clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues and doctors recognised by the law on the exercise of the health professions, as they may also practice psychotherapy in accordance with Article 68/2/1. Both academia and mental health professionals are represented. Since these professional bachelors, which are the subject of the questions, are not recognised as a health care profession, they are not represented in that Council either. When the Council makes an opinion, experts and stakeholders are invited and involved in the opinion. If the supporting healthcare profession is regulated by law, the composition of the Federal Council can of course be reviewed. That is the problem of the health professions and qualifications involved, after I first outlined the challenge of the roll-out of first-line psychological assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u43	Thank you for the detailed answer, Minister. You know that the committee closely follows mental health and has, moreover, adopted a resolution on it. On 8 October we will return to this on the occasion of the World Day for Mental Health on 10 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u44	Minister, you say you want to remove a misunderstanding, but you yourself have caused that misunderstanding by your own communication. On your website it says that there will be affordable psychological care for everyone from September 1st, but you say that what already exists today will not be refunded. This means that people who receive psychological care during individual sessions with a psychologist today and who pay perhaps 50 euros for that will not be reimbursed from 1 September. However, that message has been sent to the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u45	Let me make it clear what the right message is, because I am aware that it may have been misunderstood. I am not saying that what is happening today is by definition not being repaid, but I am saying that we will not repay everything that is happening today. The intention is that an appropriate offer that meets the conditions of good multidisciplinary cooperation, organized in networks and by convenient psychologists, after all, I do not want any supplements, and I expect you to support me in that, Mrs Merckx. That's the kind of offer we'd like to repay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u46	Thanks for the clarification. I myself have determined that many people think that all psychological care will be reimbursed, but that is not the case at all. I do agree that there is a need to think about a different way of paying. However, I do not see why people can go to a general practitioner today without being asked why they are going there or without the number of sessions being limited, when one cannot go to a psychologist without the number of sessions being limited. When we say that physical and mental health is on the same lines as human beings in a holistic approach, I do not see why we cannot evolve into accessible care for everyone, including psychological care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u47	That's a weird equation. The correct comparison you need to make is the following. Suppose for a particular problem there is a specific therapy and that therapy is simply repeated every week. Wouldn't you start to find that strange after a while? Shouldn't this therapy have an effect after some time? The comparison with the general practitioner is therefore comparing apples with lemons. Of course, you should be able to go to your doctor if you have a complaint. Of course, we think that someone should be able to go to a psychologist if they have a complaint and that they should be investigated. However, on the basis of a complaint, it is not said anywhere in medicine that an endless series of visits should be reimbursed. Where it is said, we are wrong. What you're doing now is comparing apples to lemons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u48	I think we should effectively focus on good training for psychologists. I think psychotherapists, and that's the second part of your answer, can also play a role in that. We have to work evidence-based. However, recording in advance for which one may go to the psychologist how many times, is also not evidence based. It is scientifically proven that recording the number of sessions reimbursed in advance puts pressure on the treatment. Sometimes a psychologist can solve a problem in five sessions, and I think we can trust them to do so, but sometimes it takes a longer time. I agree with you that we do indeed have to bet on quality and that you do not want to pay back anything. Quality must be there. I cannot, however, hear that you have no confidence in the psychologists and the work they are doing today. I hear here today that you don't really want to pay back what happened today. I think you should change your communication about that. I'm a GP and can tell you that people think they can actually go 16 days to the psychologist from September 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u49	You have a point about communication. But among us, your plea and the kind of arguments you use are like those of ultraliberal advocates of ultraliberal medicine 60 years ago: everything must be possible and everything must be repaid. We're not gonna start over in mental health, are we? We're not gonna do that, are we? Please, you should understand with your background that we can't accept a mere payment per performance in complete freedom................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're gonna ask for cooperation and efficiency, aren't we? We're gonna think about how we spend our money, aren't we? We want to work population-oriented, don't we? It's about a public health approach, isn't it? The liberal champions of liberal medicine would applaud for you, should they hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u50	It's becoming a ping-pong game. I suggest that Mrs Merckx gets the last word. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Caluwe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u51	Mr President, first of all, we will certainly come back to the matter. However, there is a difference between, on the one hand, the patient and the psychologist, who can decide on the number of benefits that are provided, and, on the other hand, the payment of the psychologist in itself and the question whether that payment in itself should be performance-oriented. We can indeed separate that from each other. That's where we can find each other. Secondly, and finally, you note that this is not a pilot project. On the other hand, however, you indicate that the money is available for two years, but that it may not be there after that. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u52	Mrs Merckx, you must quote me correctly. The money's definitely there. The way we use it can be evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u53	Mr President, Minister, in that case I really insist on consultation with those concerned, because it is extremely important. After all, there is nothing worse than getting people to start therapy, especially in terms of mental well-being, to stop it afterwards, because there is a financial barrier or because the refund criteria are being changed. We really need to be careful that this does not happen. If necessary, we are even further away from home. I trust that in the long term we will assess psychological care as important as somatic care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u54	We have been somewhat outside the procedure, but it was certainly an interesting debate. I now give the floor to Mr de Caluwe for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u55	Mr President, Minister, my question was slightly different from Mrs Merckx's question. I was more concerned with the psychological well-being of the population. Of course, one is linked to the other. You were just talking about liberal medicine. I would like to stress that medicine has nothing to do with political liberal ideology. After all, I fully agree with you that we should not move towards performance-oriented medicine, not even in mental health care. I would like to dwell on the letter from the Belgian Society for Psychotherapy and on the signals she has put forward on the subject. These signals point to a number of issues among our Belgian population in the field of psychological well-being which concern the Association. It cites a number of examples. An adult in six is currently on some kind of waiting list. An adult on the four performs less at work. Suicide is also a serious and complex public health problem. Suicidal behaviour, both in thought and in attempts and actual suicides, is also an important problem. It is therefore a matter for which we must quickly find a solution. I hope you will continue to work on this with Parliament. Minister, I also trust you to do so. You take the problem to heart. That was also demonstrated by the debate just now, as well as by your comprehensive answer. You didn't get off easy. This shows your commitment to the problem. As the President pointed out, on 8 October 2021 we will go into more detail about everything related to mental health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u56	Ms. Zanchetta et M. Geens sont absents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u57	Mr President, since the various questions are complementary, I will answer them in such a way as to integrate them into each other, starting with the last question put by Mr Parent, last but nevertheless central. In recent years, studies have been conducted on the transfer of responsibility for health care in prisons from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Public Health. The Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE), in particular, has described the current landscape of organizing care in prison and has put forward proposals for reforms. The study "Health care in Belgian prisons" was published in 2017 and recommends that a strategic plan be drawn up as part of this reform. To this end, several working groups have been established with experts from the various fields concerned (SPF Justice, SPF Public Health, INAMI, Communities and Regions, independent care providers). They made a series of recommendations on the following topics: 1. The Working Group on Care and Detention has made a number of proposals on the organisation of basic care, specialized somatic care, specialized mental health care, dental care and pharmaceutical care for persons in detention. 2. The technical-financial working group discussed how the health insurance of persons in detention could be integrated into compulsory health insurance and the basic principles for the future financing of prison health care. 3. The working group on central management, policy and quality control analysed the collaboration and coordination between the various political actors concerned, between Justice and Public Health and INAMI in particular. Care must be taken for the provision of equivalent health care in prisons, in safe and favourable conditions. This requires centralized management and policy from these levels of authority. 4. The Working Group on Pre-conditions has formulated a series of preconditions to be met in order to provide equivalent care to prisoners. This includes prerequisites in the field of logistics such as the provision of sufficient rooms for consultations and therapies. For continuity of care within and outside the institution, effective communication between external and internal health care partners is an important prerequisite. An appropriate eHealth-enabled electronic patient record is an essential tool in this regard. My colleague from Justice has already taken a number of initiatives in this context. The activities of these working groups resulted in a vision text for the reform of health care in prisons approved at the end of 2019 by a steering group composed of the various ministers concerned (Justice, Public Health, Social Integration), Communities and Regions and Administrations. As you know, the current government intends to reform penitentiary health care. The vision text drawn up under the previous legislature and its recommendations will form the basis for this reform, aiming at equal care for persons in detention, equivalent to those in free society. In that context, my policy cell organised consultations with the Minister of Justice's policy cell and a number of representatives of relevant administrations to determine the federal priorities for this legislature. For the federal government the administrative insurability, i.e. the integration into the health insurance of persons in detention, is already the top priority. On 7 July last, the policy cells and administrations of the relevant government ministers were also informed of this. The aim is to draw up, in consultation with the Länder, a phased integrated action plan for the reform of penitentiary health care. The aim is to finalise that action plan in autumn 2021 and submit it to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, extended to the Minister of Justice. However, since the administrative insurability of detainees is a federal competence, I have already instructed my administration, together with my colleague in the field of justice, to re-establish the technical and financial working group and to start preparing for the integration of prisoners into compulsory health insurance. This working group will develop a number of concrete action points in the autumn, as well as the corresponding timing. This will form an initial part of the global integrated action plan for the reform of penitentiary health care, which should be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The measures planned in consultation with the Minister of Justice will certainly contribute to the attractiveness of the medical professions in prisons. However, as long as a partial transfer of powers has not taken place or a joint project has not been initiated, the organization of health care in prisons remains the exclusive competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. The Minister of Justice had the opportunity to respond for his part in June. I think we agree on the points that have been made, but also on the action plan. I am pleased that communication has been re-established with the ground to lift the gruntful actions that had been started out of despair. This term of desperation is absolutely not too strong in relation to the situation in which health-care workers are now in this type of institution, which is experiencing repeated incidents with prisoners and movements of grunt because, in my view, of the weakness of the psychiatric supervision of prisoners. We will therefore be paying attention to the further implementation of the reform announced and detailed by the Minister, whom I would like to thank again for the factual elements and the agenda communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u59	Minister, I have not read Mrs Muylle's question, but I suspect it is indeed the same. I am concerned about the introduction of the paperless prescription for patients who are not fully digitally literate and therefore run certain risks in the area of health care. I would like to hear from you the current state of affairs in Belgium with regard to the paperless regulation. What will you do to ensure that vulnerable groups are not left behind? Are you considering information campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u60	Colleagues, I would first like to give some general information. For all providers of care that prescribe electronically together, there were 2.773.182 paper regulations and 3.823.514 electronic regulations by December 2020. This is a total of 7115,693 regulations, of which 39 % on paper and 61 % electronic. We notice that in two years the ratio between paper and electronic has been reversed. These figures will be followed by the RIZIV control services, which will launch a awareness campaign. We also notice that all age groups of care providers participate well in the electronic prescription. When developing the digitisation process involving citizens, particular attention should always be paid to vulnerable populations. This is no different here, and this is also reflected in the preparation of Mrs Muylle and Mr De Caluwe. The elaboration and roll-out of the process dematerialisation of the prescription takes place in consultation with various stakeholders, including representatives of patient associations and insurance institutions. Among other things, they ensure that the interests of all citizens/patients are protected. Communication to all concerned will also be crucial here. This communication is currently being thoroughly prepared by the various stakeholders. It is also important that the current possibility remains to go to the pharmacy with a paper proof of electronic prescription. The doctor will by default offer a paper proof of electronic prescription unless the patient chooses to digitally manage his prescriptions. There is also the possibility that the pharmacist will deliver regulations to the patient on the basis of his identity card or national register number. Various suggestions have been made in the preparation of the questions. These are possibilities that we can explore when further developing the process of dematerialisation of the prescription.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u61	We share the same concern, Minister. What's new to me is that apparently there's still some paperwork going on. I think it is an important suggestion that attention should continue to be paid to vulnerable groups. The language problem must also be kept under review. At the local level I notice that foreign speakers often still have to be made aware of myhealth.be. So this attention remains crucial. I am therefore pleased that this aspect is also on your list of priorities. We will, of course, continue to follow this theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u62	I think the theme of health literature is very important. I tabled a resolution on it some time ago. The Open Vld believes that the patient should be a pilot of his own healthcare, or at least copilot, and be closely involved in his care process. To make this possible, the patient must have sufficient understanding of, and a good overview of, what is prescribed for him. Digitisation is a good thing, but it must not lead some people to drop out. Thank you for sharing this concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u63	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago, at your request, this oral question was converted into a written question, but then my question was published unanswered. That is why I have retabled my question as an oral question. We were contacted by the non-profit association Berrefonds, a non-profit association intended for grieving family members for the loss of a child. This non-profit association reports us cases of ambiguity in the legislation on urgent medical care, specifically the interventions of the mobile emergency group. The benefits provided by the MUG are not borne by social security, but the costs for products such as resuscitation materials and medicines could be recovered by the hospitals to the government under the legislation. The relevant legislation could be interpreted, causing a lot of chaos on the ground. Thus, some hospitals do not pass on the costs for the MUG to patients, or survivors in this particular case, while other hospitals do. Mutualities also admit that federal legislation can be interpreted in different ways. Minister, do you know about these incidents, especially those to whom these transport costs are charged? Are you aware of the fact that there is arbitrariness in the application of that legislation? Who is responsible for the costs of CPR material and MUG products? Is it true that hospitals can recover costs from patients or their next of kin? Are you planning measures to ensure that the law is made clear and to reduce or drop costs for patients or survivors? In your policy paper, you wrote that there would be a proposal for reform to finance the resources of urgent medical aid. What is the status of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u64	Article 123 of the Hospital Act states literally that "All costs relating to the interventions of the Mobile Emergency Group (MUG) shall be covered by the budget of financial resources, with the exception of the fees referred to in Article 102." Hospitals cannot therefore claim these costs on the patients or next of kin. No mileage allowance or other costs may be charged to the patient for sending out the MUG in itself. The medical assistance fee for an emergency medical doctor in the context of a MUG intervention is fully reimbursed by the sickness insurance. In addition, fees for technical services can also be charged. Some are fully covered by health insurance. Others have a small personal share. For example, for the reduction of an electrocardiogram, which gives rise to a personal share of 2.78 euros for a rightholder without a preferential arrangement. You referred to the reform of urgent medical aid. It concerns the services of urgent medical assistance regulated by the 1964 Act. The MUG is actually a hospital function and is regulated on the basis of the law on hospitals, and therefore falls outside the scope of the reform you referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u65	Thank you for your answer. So if important amounts are asked by the hospital, it will be illegal rather than illegal, I understand. Okay, we'll check that with the people who spoke to us about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, this is a question that is already a little dated since I asked it just before the holidays. I wanted to go back to the test problem. Before the holidays, several States accepted antigenic tests to receive foreigners on their territory. However, many Belgian citizens and travel agencies told us that a series of people had been refused at the airport because the results of these tests did not explicitly indicate "negative", but rather values relating to covid-19. If these figures are below a reference value, the test is therefore negative. As a result, many people were unable to fly. You can imagine the difficulties they have encountered. Some of them lost their holidays (or in any case in part), their car reservations, the holidays they had set and which had to be cancelled, etc. That is my question. Is there a legal obligation to explicitly mention the term "negative" on the test result? If so, why have a series of laboratories not done so? When an antigenic test is de facto negative without such a mention, do airlines have the right to refuse access to the aircraft for a traveller? Is there not the right to legislate in order to standardise the consideration of the various tests and their results by airlines, in order to stop these discriminations (financial losses, holiday hassles, etc.).( )? What are the remedies for citizens who have been harmed by this system if their documents were clearly in order? Should they turn against airlines or the laboratory?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u67	Mr Bayet, I believe that the problem that has arisen has been resolved since then. The results of rapid antigenic tests are now recorded in Sciensano and the results are integrated into the EU Digital Covid Certificate. I cannot tell you what the people concerned can do to get any compensation. In fact, I do not want to hide, but this is a question that must be asked to Mr Gilkinet, Minister of Public Transport, or to Mrs De Bleeker, Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. In any case, the one-time problem can no longer arise. Fortunately, it has been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u68	Minister, thank you. I had tabled my question at the end of June. Since then, the problem has been solved. Of course, we can only rejoice. I will therefore follow your advice and ask your two colleagues the question, so that our fellow citizens who have been injured, as a result of this misinterpretation by some airlines, can be reimbursed in full or, in any case, in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Creyelman's 55019104C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u70	Minister, on 7 June 2021, a new medicine for Alzheimer's was registered by the American FDA. This is the first medicine to interfere with the disease processes of the disease. It can slightly slow down the disease process in some people with onset Alzheimer's. Several pharmaceutical companies such as Pfizer have decided no longer to invest in expensive clinical studies into new Alzheimer's treatment. However, Alzheimer's is the most common form of dementia. More than 30 million people worldwide suffer from Alzheimer's. The medicinal product manufacturer Biogen submitted an application to the European Medicines Agency EMA on 30 October 2020. Minister, what is the state of the EEA's approval? When could the application be made in Belgium? What does the FDA's approval of the European market mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u71	Mr President, I hope that Mr De Caluwé will excuse me for replying in French, because Mrs Zanchetta had put the question in French. Aducanumab is a monoclonal antibody that specifically targets the beta-amyloid protein involved in the physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease. By eliminating this protein that accumulates in patients' brains, Biogen develops this drug to slow the cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's disease. Phase 3 clinical trials targeted patients with mild cognitive impairment (early form of Alzheimer's disease associated with the existence of an amyloid load in brain imaging). This treatment is the first therapy authorized to target and affect the underlying pathological process of Alzheimer's disease. Aducanumab was approved under the commercial name Aduhelm in June 2021 by the FDA under a special procedure, accelerated approximation pathway. This procedure allows the FDA to provide accelerated authorization for drugs for serious conditions that meet an unmet medical need on the basis of the effect of this medicine on an intermediate endpoint or on an overrogate endpoint, an alternative clinical endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit to patients. This procedure requires the firm to conduct a post-approval clinical trial to verify that the drug provides the expected clinical benefits. Experts' opinions are divided on this FDA marketing authorisation, particularly regarding the clinical efficacy of this drug and its ability to slow down cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's disease. Indeed, one of the two Phase 3 clinical studies demonstrated marginal improvements in clinical outcomes while the other study demonstrated a lack of efficacy on the primary evaluation criterion of the study. This FDA authorization is also based on a surrogate marker and not on a clinical outcome, i.e., the decrease in amyloid load at the level of brain imaging and the clinical correlation of this marker is questionable. A procedure for the evaluation of this medicinal product is under way at the level of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). If the drug is approved by EMA, the company can submit an application to CRM, as is the case for all drugs. The BeNeLuxA group closely follows the Alzheimer's disease therapies that are entering the market. BeNeLuxA wishes to point out that clinical criteria, such as changes in cognitive scores or dementia scales, are considered to be relevant criteria for health technology assessment agencies (HTAs) in Alzheimer's clinical trials. Biomarker data are not considered sufficient to demonstrate a benefit to ETS agencies. Currently authorised treatments for patients with mild to moderately severe Alzheimer's disease are cholinesterase inhibitors and for patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease, the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, memantine. Current drugs against Alzheimer's disease only treat the symptoms of the disease, for example by delaying memory loss by a few months, and have a limited duration of effect due to the continuous progression of the pathological process. Unfortunately, there are still no approved medicines available for patients with early stages of the disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and comprehensive reply. I look forward to the follow-up and hope for a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u73	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u74	Mrs Depoorter, as regards your first question, Belgium is internationally recognised for its expertise and investments in the field of clinical trials. By concluding the Summer Agreement, the government has also ensured that applications for approval for clinical trials on medicinal products are exempted from fees. The work done by my staff at the FAGG and the College is also appreciated by the European authorities, but I also see that other Member States, such as Germany, Spain and Denmark, are making every effort to take top positions in Europe. As for your second question, my cabinet is in close contact with the administration to ensure that the teams involved succeed in further optimising the work processes necessary for the implementation of the new regulation. This includes, inter alia, the treatment of mononational phase 1 trials within a shorter period of time, shorter than the maximum timelines laid down in the Regulation, the further preparation of the CTR pilots, including the inclusion of the role as a reference Member State, the learning of the functioning with the new IT system Clinical Trials Information System of CTIS, the preparation of the implementation act for monitoring the safety of ongoing clinical trials, as well as the proactive preparation of key new domains, such as the innovative designs for clinical trials, studies and applications on ATMPs (Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products) containing a GMO component (genetic modified organism), as well as the interaction with other legislation, such as the Regulation on medical devices and in vitro diagnostics. This should lead to a positive audit, which will be carried out by the European Commission. You also asked me if I had any discussions with the pharmaceutical sector. My administration has regular consultations with all the sectors concerned, including the pharmaceutical industry. For example, information sessions are organised for sponsors to agree and allow them to be prepared as well as possible before the regulation enters into force, i.e. before 31 January. The system of time locks was introduced on 15 February 2021 only for initial applications through the CTR pilot project. These are the applications described in the Law of 7 May 2017. For the initial applications outside the CTR pilot project under the current law of 7 May 2004, no time lock was indicated. In addition, no time limits were introduced for the substantial amendments and covid-related initial applications. The average number of initial applications based on the Law of 7 May 2004 and the CTR pilot project remained stable during the first five months of 2021 compared to the last six months of 2020 on average 51 applications per month, which means that by introducing the time locks more initial applications were made through the Law of 7 May 2004 compared to the period before. What is also striking is that, despite the introduction of two time locks per week, which gives an average of nine available time locks per month, an average of 15 initial applications were received in March, April and May. This difference, on average six initial applications per month, is explained by the covid-related initial applications for which no time slot should be reserved and by the dramatic increase in the number of amendments through the CTR pilot projects. There is an increase of 11% when comparing May and December. A possible explanation for this is also covidged. We see that the covid-related requests need to be changed more quickly and often, inter alia because the file submitted earlier is less mature and the file needs to be adjusted by the rapid evolutions in the domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The fee is one thing and the elaboration and optimisation of the work processes is another matter. Of course, all this has to be done. It is also good that there is a certain stability of clinical trials in our country, but I think there is a great challenge, in particular the accessibility of patients and target groups. In other countries there is a different policy in this area. Is the federal government prepared to reflect on this, to ensure that more direct contact can be made with patient platforms and to carry out certain studies? This could shake our position. A second important fact in the design of clinical trials is the data ecosystem, which is not optimal in our country. People often say that. We are certainly not leaders in measuring and knowing. We are not leaders in transparently displaying the data we have at our disposal. We often cannot enter them into the network ourselves. If we want to maintain this leading position as a research region, as a pharma valley, then we need a better data ecosystem and better access to target groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u76	Mr Minister, the 1964 pharmaceutical law lays down the conditions for the production and delivery of official preparations. The administrative provisions are also regulated by this law. For a few years now, there have been firms offering the service to the official pharmacists to make official preparations in their pharmacy and also to register in the file. A complaint concerning non-compliant practices in this context was lodged with the FAGG some time ago. Certain groups of pharmacists use the services of that firm to have official preparations made in one official. These majestic preparations are then distributed among different officials belonging to the same group or cooperative. This means that these official preparations are not made in the official language in which they are sold or in which they were registered. This complaint dates from January 2020. An inspection would have been carried out in the autumn. The practices are still taking place today, it is widely known in the world of pharmacy. Are you aware of the complaint and the inspection? Did you have access to the file? What is the status of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u77	A judgment was delivered on this case in the company court in Antwerp. That turned into a lawsuit, too. The judge in the judgment refers to the FAGG to judge the legality of this practice. The FAGG is also the body that carried out the inspection. The FAGG did not communicate to the complainant. What is the FAGG's view on this dossier at the moment? What is in the report of the FAGG inspection carried out as a result of this complaint? Will steps be taken by the FAGG? If it is true that these official preparations are not produced in the official in which they are sold, the pharmaceutical law is broken. Similarly, the registration of raw materials in the raw materials register in the pharmacies selling these official preparations cannot be accurate. Then there's a false registration. That too is a violation of the law. What will you do about this? What steps will you take to avoid this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u78	The FAGG is aware of the complaint and has also initiated an investigation, but I was informed that the investigation has not yet been concluded. The reason is related to the pandemic, which had a very strong impact on the daily work of the FAGG inspectors. A number of studies started last year have therefore been delayed. As long as the investigation isn't complete, there's no way I can draw any conclusions. To date, the FAGG has no knowledge of all the elements. I have called on the FAGG to continue and complete this investigation, after which all the necessary conclusions must be drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u79	Minister, I expected this answer. We've talked about the FAGG and the phone before: apparently they haven't invented it there yet. When will you carry out an audit of the operation of this very important federal institution? There has been a pandemic, which has caused a great deal of work, but this is a violation of the law on the production and sale of medicines. That's serious, isn't it? How is it that a complaint lodged on 20 January 2020 has not been dealt with today? This is unbelievable. I find it equally incredible that I get the same answer over and over again: you urge, you will investigate, you will check, but you will not make an evaluation of the operation, because you do not think that is necessary. This is serious, this is a very important federal institution that today doesn't work as it should. At least we should have access to the inspection file. An inspection report shall be accessible to a Member of Parliament within the framework of public administration. I will therefore request this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u80	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a follow-up question. Some time ago, I asked you about the use of the iClean swabs, which leave small particles in the nose and which, in the case of frequent use, could pose a danger to the health of the patient. They would therefore no longer be sold. You indicated that the FAGG had taken steps to this end. However, the iClean swabs are still sold and used. This could have an impact on public health. Have you consulted the FAGG on this again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u81	In collaboration with Sciensano, the FAGG carries out an analysis of the components that may be released when using these swabs. Firstly, an extraction study was carried out on several samples. This study made it possible to identify as many chemical components as possible that could be released from a contact with swabs. The samples were extracted with two different solvents: physiological water and a solution of 96% ethanol, this for 24 hours at 37° Celsius, and then analysed with two complementary chromatographic techniques. The identified substances are currently being analysed for toxicity. In the next phase, a cytotoxic study and a determination of selected components after extraction may be performed under more relevant physiological conditions. This allows us to estimate the actual exposure to potentially worrying components. Because of the short exposure time, the low frequency of use and the small amount of material that may be left in the nose, the risk to public health is estimated as small. Moreover, the nature of the plastic used, namely nylon, is not a cause for concern. Nylon is a common component of medical devices and is also used in sutures, for example. Nevertheless, we continue to follow this up with the above analysis. Finally, there is currently no standardized test to objectively quantify the number of loosened dust particles in the nose. However, before placing medical devices on the market in Europe, the choice of materials used must be checked against, inter alia, toxicity and biocompatibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u82	Mr President, Minister, I do not understand why an invasive medical device, such as a shadow, is sold and used in our country when a toxicity study is being conducted at that time. At least the quarantine could have been maintained until it is clear that there is no risk to public health. You indicate that it is not used frequently and that the risks are small. However, for people who have chosen not to be vaccinated, they may have to undergo a weekly test and feel or receive such a swap deep in their noses. You take a risk to public health in this respect and do not carry out any thorough work. A quarantine until you are sure that there is no danger to public health would have been at least an application of the principle of caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Samyn's 55019275C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u84	I'll be brief. It is a question that I had already put to you in June, because then the press said that in the week of 20 June, on a study day by Zorgnet-Icuro, you explained your plan on the reform of hospital funding. Then you announced that you would like to work on another hospital funding. You're saying you want to eliminate the gap between doctors' incomes. How will you do this in concrete terms? What measure will you use to determine doctors' incomes? Will you raise the lowest wages among the doctors? Or will you reduce the huge wages of some doctors-specialists and do you think that you will be able to free up a budget? How will the problem of doctors' contributions be dealt with? After all, many hospitals need them to keep their heads above water. Have you studied the idea of financing hospitals bundled? How do you see the phasing out of the performance-related funding system? What about the framework standards? The last aspect of hospital funding is that of the revenues that hospitals obtain through their contracts with the pharmaceutical industry and in relation to other medical products, about 18% of their total income. How will you deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u85	Thank you, Mr President, and also Mr Merckx for her question. I had tabled this question hoping that we could debate it in the week of 22 June. Of course, this is not so obvious in the Committee on Health. I think it's kind of a weird moment right now. I also have the impression, Minister, that you will be returning to it very extensively in the next few weeks in the context of your policy paper and your budget. That's why I'll be brief now. However, I have to say that a number of very interesting slopes were presented at the Zorgnet conference or meeting, both by Mrs Cloet and by you, on the themes to which Mrs Merckx referred earlier. In view of the hour and the place, I do not want to do this very extensively, but it would be good to hear a first approach from you. I suspect that we will be able to come back to it in detail in the autumn in committee. I think the questions that Mrs Merckx is asking are the right ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u86	Mr President, I am essentially sticking to what I said on the day of study. Mrs Merckx, if you wish, I would like to repeat that. For the rest, I do not want to improvise in this, partly because the people I consult about it and myself are still working on the preparatory work. On that day of study, I said that I distinguished four major yards. Firstly, the current dual and intertwined funding of doctors and hospitals needs to be thoroughly reviewed. Work in progress in the context of the re-examination of the nomenclature will guide this process. They must lead to a modernised and objectiveized nomenclature, which corrects unreasonable income differences between doctors and enables the professional part and operating costs to be separated in an objective manner. That's what it says in the last medicomut chord. Secondly, in parallel with this, we need to implement reforms at the level of the budget 'financial resources'. In my previous term as Minister for Social Affairs and Health, I thoroughly revised the financing model by introducing the'responsible days'. This was an important step towards a need rather than supply-driven funding, but that work is not yet complete. We must therefore strive for a thorough reform. The aim must be to ensure that funding follows pathology, rather than the current parallel funding systems, where for one hospitalisation there is a bunch of topics on the invoice in which a cat does not find her boy. Thirdly, cooperation between hospitals should be stepped up, but also between hospitals and the first line. Fourthly, you will not be surprised that access to care is a priority for me. In doing so, we need to consider whether the funding flows sufficiently to the relevant framework. Zorgnet-Icuro says that it is not so much a budget that is needed, but a better, more direct distribution and a rationalization of supply. I think there is much to say for that position, and the networks have an important role to play in this. Mrs Merckx, you have also pointed out the important aspect of the way in which medicines play a role in the financing of hospitals today. In this respect, I believe that, among other things, a very thorough reform is needed. With this I explained very briefly what I explained in greater detail at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u87	Minister, I understand that if you really come forward with your plans, we will have a fundamental discussion. Nevertheless, I think I can take advantage of this opportunity to give you a number of things. Just now, in a very different discussion, you spoke about the fact that hospitals would publish the vaccination rate of their staff. I think there is another taboo in our country, namely doctors' wages. In order to be able to conduct the discussion properly, I think that change is needed through transparency about doctors' wages. The latest officially published figures date from 2012. If we really want to get a grip on doctors' wages, for example on payments and so on, then we must be well informed. That taboo must therefore be broken. We must also be absolutely free from the competition between hospitals, i.e. from performance. In this sense, I am critical of the idea of changing and reviewing the nomenclature. People have been working on it for many years, it seems like the procession of Echternach. In my opinion, it is impossible to determine how much a doctor can earn for any treatment, deed, prescription or surgery. We need to focus on quality, and so it needs to be changed. The path of performance-related payments must be abandoned. The fact that doctors are paid per achievement, we have to get rid of that. Funding needs to be more bundled, in terms of population. I encourage you to do so in your reform. I would advise you to break some taboos and pursue a real reform. Reform can also relieve the workload for nursing staff, although I do not know whether or not this is one of your goals, but I think it is also very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your first approach, if I may call it that. I will briefly mention a number of elements, because a discussion would lead us very far. We will certainly be able to discuss this further later, perhaps on the basis of your plan. I believe that what Zorgnet said happened with a view to a better distribution of resources. I will mention one example from my own province, where I am active. There are often noticeable differences in the number of beds per 100,000 inhabitants: from a good 300 beds to more than 500 beds. There is therefore an imbalance in this area. A much better, more rational, use of resources is therefore needed. This is not a story of Flanders versus French-speaking Belgium or Brussels. This is really a story in which there are provinces in Flanders and Wallonia that are doing well or that are doing less well in that area. I believe that this is an important point with regard to the rationalisation of supply. Things are already happening. There are a lot of conversion files today. Today, for example, a lot of Sp services are being created. That is a very good thing. But I believe there are still a lot of efficiency gains to be achieved. A second element that I would like to add is what Mrs Merckx says, although of course I am not in favour of far-reaching forfaitisation. I'm a lot more nuanced about that. However, I am not opposed to bundled funding. I do feel that what we have done on low variable care in the sector is actually going pretty well. We had a three-step plan. I think it is right to make the assessment of the low variable care now and to see what further we can do in the context of the bundled funding. A third and final element I would like to mention, Minister, concerns the networks. I keep repeating it: I feel that people are dormant in the networks. Although a strategic plan for care must be drawn up and a strategic regional plan for care, the first-line zones have been activated in view of the covid crisis, but they are very committed to other issues. We still have to go to hospitals with that plan and see how they can be an important partner in the regional care strategy plan. That's still growing. However, I do not know what tasks one will have as a basic hospital and which in the context of supra-regional care. This is about planning and programming, so I think it is important to clarify this. This is also linked to the funding of the network. So there are a lot of challenges, and I look forward to seeing your plans and debating them with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u89	Minister, with this question, I am echoing all these young women who suffer from endometriosis, a disease you probably know and which is a chronic gynaecological disease that now affects one to two women in ten. So that's an important number. It is a complex disease with various symptoms, often disabling, and especially very difficult to diagnose. For example, a young girl I met had to go through twelve different gynaecologists before she could put a name on the pains she had to face. Some countries are beginning – even 160 years after the discovery of the disease – to propose actions to improve awareness of the disease or research. France has thus begun to develop a national strategy to help better understand endometriosis. Australia, Switzerland or Canada are also more advanced in the recognition of the disease. Minister, my questions are quite simple. How is this happening in Belgium? In your policy note, you confirmed the development of a federal chronic disease plan to improve patient care experience. Are you considering recognizing endometriosis over time as a chronic disease? What contacts do you and your firm have with specialists, gynaecologists, specialists in this disease or with CBHAs active in this area, particularly in terms of prevention and awareness? As I said, one to two in ten women in Belgium suffer from this disease, but many more are not diagnosed. It's extremely difficult. Awareness-raising campaigns exist, but they are not sufficient. They are obviously necessary. On the FPS Public Health site, for example, there is no information page. I know that prevention is the responsibility of the regions. Could an interdepartmental conference further advance the issue? Is an awareness-raising campaign possible at the national level from your firm to the various target groups? At European level, action is being taken with the Female Project in particular. The European Union has also allocated €6 million to collaborate on endometriosis research. Does Belgium cooperate at the federal and regional level even if it falls under the other level of power? Is there any cooperation between our country and Europe in this programme? Finally, more generally, what really exists to raise awareness and help these many women who suffer from this chronic disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u90	Mrs Reuter, endometriosis is a disease in which the tissues that normally develop inside the uterus develop outside the uterus, usually in the peritoneal cavity, and on the peritoneal and pelvis organs. The main symptoms are pelvic pain and infertility. Almost half of people with chronic pelvic pain suffer, while 70% experience pain during menstruation. Infertility occurs in almost half of the women involved. Less common symptoms are urinary or intestinal symptoms. About 25% of women have no symptoms. Endometriosis can have both social and psychological effects. The disease is included in the WHO's international statistical classification of diseases and related health problems, and its diagnosis is therefore recognized in the medical world. At national level, no legislation provides for the recognition of specific diseases. The criteria for various interventions or possible benefits, such as increased intervention under health insurance or the recognition of a disability for income replacement or integration allowance, are not based on a list of eligible diseases but on an individual assessment of the extent to which the patient is experiencing difficulties of autonomy in his or her daily life. The right to flat-rate intervention for chronic patients and the status of persons with chronic conditions, two measures of INAMI which improve access to care for chronic patients, are granted on the basis of the cost of health benefits for the person in the previous year, and on his or her dependency situation, but not on a specific pathology. There is therefore no specific framework for official recognition of endometriosis as a chronic condition in Belgium, but this does not preclude persons suffering from this condition from benefiting from the specific interventions of INAMI in favour of chronic patients. As you mentioned, prevention and awareness-raising are the responsibility of the federated entities. Consultations with federated entities are organized within the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. For the topic of prevention, a specific working group will resume this work shortly and decide on the topics to be addressed during this term. The inter-federal plan "chronic diseases", which will be developed in consultation with the federated entities, will be oriented towards the needs in this field in general and will not deal with specific diseases. You also mentioned the multidisciplinary initiatives for endometriosis, which I encourage. This is a relevant approach not only for endometriosis, but for all chronic diseases. The European Female Project is a study coordinated by the University of Aarhus in Denmark. Other European countries as well as the United Kingdom are also involved. To my knowledge, Belgium is not. A multidisciplinary team will bring together various sectors for the development of clinical tools to assist health practitioners in their decision-making. These tools, which will be based on genetic and epidemiological data, will use machine learning and artificial intelligence. Researchers will examine how to improve endometriosis prevention, early diagnosis and self-management assistance. To this end, they will use digital tools to detect different forms of the disease and promote discussions on treatment options between the patient, physicians and the counsellor. It is hoped that the project will make it possible to use precision medicine and share data with patients while serving as a driving force for new discoveries in endometriosis research. The study began in January 2021 and will be completed in December 2024. Therefore, no results are yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u91	Minister, we will have to talk about this again because you have not answered all the questions. I have heard that a working group would be re-established, but it is not known on what theme or when. I understand that to date, while this disease is recognized by the medical world, no federal plan for endometriosis has been established. It seems to me that we need to go back to this problem – which you have described perfectly – which greatly invalidates young women and can impact their social life and psychological health. In terms of awareness and inclusion of the disease among chronic diseases, I note that today, since everything is based on the cost of care and their number, this is not necessarily the case. However, we will have to do more to deal with this issue. As I said and repeated, it affects a lot of young women. Some have no symptoms, which makes the diagnosis even more difficult. I believe that we cannot remain insensitive to this type of disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u92	Mr President, Minister, this question is very specific. The toilet pass was created to allow people with Crohn's disease, with ulcerative colitis, with chronic bowel or bladder problems, or with MS on presentation of the pass to use a toilet free of charge in hospitality shops or shops. With this facility document you can quickly and discreetly use the toilets. The pass is shown to the staff so that they are aware of the situation. The pass was established in cooperation with representatives of the catering industry and other self-employed organisations. Its use does not appear to be enforceable. I got a lot of reactions from patients that there are shops and restaurants that don't want to allow free use of the toilet. Especially during the corona crisis, when the hospitality was closed, many problems were encountered to be admitted to a toilet in the shops that were open. Some patients were afraid to leave their homes for fear of an accident and became isolated. That was not only the case in the covid period, but also outside. Can such a pass be made enforceable? What can patients do if they refuse to use the toilet? There was also a toilet app. Do you have any idea how it's going to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u93	The toilet pass is a nice initiative of the patient associations for Crohn and ulcerative colitis, in collaboration with representatives of the catering industry and other self-employed organisations. The initiative is also supported by some health insurance funds. Patients may apply through the sickness fund or through the association itself, provided that their diagnosis as a chronic bowel diseaser is confirmed by their treating physician. Of course, these patients should have access to a toilet when necessary. In fact, the legal enforceability should not be necessary for this. Sensitisation should lead to a better understanding of the situation of these people, so that refusal no longer occurs. Actually, the intention of the action was not to make something enforceable, but to sensitize. Making it enforceable requires a different kind of initiative. That is not the issue here. It is a pity, however, to note that this action runs into obstacles here and there. As you say, the patient associations have taken the initiative to develop a toilet app that allows patients to see where the nearest toilet is. There are also several free apps available, both at Google and Apple, which indicate the nearest toilet, such as Flush and HighNood apps. I myself have no idea of the development of this toilet app and therefore cannot answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you share this concern. Anyone who is refused will find himself in a very uncomfortable situation, causing dramatic conditions and helplessness. I myself experienced it closely in the covid period and that was extremely confronting. A toilet pass plays a very important role in the quality of life of these patients and ensures that they do not become socially isolated if they do not know that there is a toilet available somewhere. A uniform system with all the national languages must be put in place. It was very confrontational to note that, for example, in Wallonia, people did not know what to do with a Dutch pass. I'm sure I'll join you when you say we need to work on extensive sensitisation. I hope that all organisations will be supported by all self-employed organisations to strengthen this awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u95	Mr President, Minister, in the morning we discussed the treatment of COOVID-19, although specifically in hospitals. My question, however, is about the general practitioner's treatment. Now the GP advises a patient who has tested positive and shows mild symptoms to stay at home and go to hospital when his or her condition gets worse. That is exactly what we want to avoid. We want to relieve the burden of care. Nevertheless, the patient concerned must wait until he or she shows enough or too bad symptoms to be sent to hospital. Why aren't symptomatic covid patients treated by general practitioners at a very early stage? Can general practitioners use off-label medicines to treat early COVID-19? What medicines can be used for this purpose? Can the therapeutic freedom of the physician not be invoked in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, I must begin by emphasising once again a few general principles, which are important. In the interests of public health, the general practitioner retains his complete freedom to prescribe medicinal products. Prescription of the off-label, to which you refer, is indeed part of the therapeutic freedom of doctors. However, off-label use should be carefully considered and the patient should be well informed, including the potential risks associated with off-label use. After all, there is no certainty that off-label use is safe and effective. However, the prescription by a general practitioner is not possible if the medicinal product is subject to a limited or special medical prescription, as is the case for medicinal products which may only be used in a hospital environment and for medicinal products where a medical prescription drawn up by a specialist is required or for psychotropic substances and narcotics. Remdesivir and Dexamethasone, the only already registered medicinal products containing COVID-19 in the indications, should only be administered to hospitalised patients. Applications for market authorisation for monoclonal antibodies are currently under review at the EEA. A monoclonal antibody has already been made available to the patient with a very high risk of severe progression by ministerial decision to a limited extent. However, this treatment is also reserved for use in the hospital environment. No specific treatments are currently available for early covid patients. For medicinal products to be placed on the market, the manufacturer must apply for a prior authorisation at the European level or at the Belgian level. Only those medicines are therefore supported by the competent authorities and are eligible, taking into account quality, safety and efficacy. There are a number of general principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u97	Minister, that is indeed a very general answer. You refer to the doctor's therapeutic freedom, but you also say that no medicines should be used in the care of the patient, only in the context of hospitalisation. So they're just as far away. That does not answer my question either. GPs cannot or should not treat people at a very early stage, with very mild symptoms. The patient has to wait until it's bad enough to be transferred to the hospital. I really do not understand why these medicines should only be used in a hospital setting and why our general practitioners should not use them. If you put such an emphasis on vaccination to relieve the burden of care, why not intervene if the patient is not yet very ill? If he can be treated, he doesn't get sicker in many cases. Apparently there's no urgency there. The general practitioner is also overlooked with this. I hear from a lot of general practitioners that they have a problem with that. They also took the oath of Hippocrates. If they were to treat them, they would be called to the Order of Healers. I ask myself very big questions about this, especially since we have been hearing for over a year that we need to relieve the burden of care. I have already seen protocols of medicines that can be used and which are secretly used by some general practitioners, but if that is convenient they can be suspended. The therapeutic freedom is not as free as you suggest here. I find it very strange that this is no longer being done. If you take the relief of care seriously, should the patient not be sick? I don't understand your reasoning. I don't understand why this treatment of light-sick covid patients isn't taken with both hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Sneppe's 55019347C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u99	Mrs. Muylle is no longer logged in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u100	Minister, I am not trying to make it too long, but I think it is important to be able to ask this question today. On 14 June 2021 it became known that in certain devices using patients with sleep apnea there would be carcinogenic agents. When that news came out in June, of course, it caused a lot of panic, both among the patients and with the caregivers. The Association for Slapapnea has written to the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG), but has not received sufficient answers. The association is therefore very disappointed. For two months now, she has been expecting an answer from you as to what is going to happen and what is going to happen. This concerns the devices Philips DreamStation, which are used today by 70,000 patients. So it could potentially be 70,000 people involved. Is there an investigation into these harmful effects? What's the status? Do you have any idea what damage could have been done? What does the FAGG do with Philips? Has there been any contact between the two? Is there any talk of compensation for patients? Is it about material that is only in Philips devices, or is it possibly in others? Philips says it'll replace the planes. For that replacement, the company would take a year off. This means that patients will either have to inhale the carcinogenic particles for another year or no longer use their sleep apnea device, which is, of course, very dangerous for them. Patients are wondering, among other things, whether they can remove the harmful insulation foam themselves. They expect an answer from you on these questions and a lot of other questions, and I hope you will clarify them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u101	Mr President, I have been able to log in again. In terms of collegiality, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u102	First let me outline the context, then what I know about the FAGG and then some additional elements. Laboratory studies have shown the presence of the following potentially harmful substances: toluenediamine, toluene diisocyanate and diethylene glycol. In this context, the FAGG has pointed out to me that detected levels of diethylene glycol are within the acceptable safety margin, and that the degradation products toluenediamine and toluenediisocyanate are classified as group AK2B cancers by the International Agency for Cancer Research, a part of the WHO. For this category of chemicals there is little evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and insufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. Laboratory analyses also showed that as the foam breaks down, it tends to stick to both nearby surfaces and to itself. This reduces the risk of inhalable particles entering the ventilation circuit. In addition, the available evidence suggests that most broken foam particles are too large to be inhaled. In addition, diisocyanate is associated with isocyanate-induced asthma in a very small number of patients. The FAGG has contacted both Philips and the other European Member States to follow this up. Analysis by the manufacturer and the Member States shows that there is no serious acute toxicological health risk associated with the use of those devices. For medium and long-term effects additional research is needed. The evidence available suggests that the risks to patients who do not have immediate access to an alternative are significantly greater in the event of a cessation of use of those devices than in the identified biological safety risks. The risks of discontinuation include accidents at work and while driving due to daytime sleepiness and individual comorbidity. The FAGG recommends that patients contact their treating physician about continuing treatment. The risk-benefit analysis is not only based on problems with the device, but must also take into account the medical background of the individual patient. As for the number of years during which patients use these devices, I have no data. The declared service life of these devices is about five years. Some patients may have had multiple devices in use consecutively. As has just been mentioned, the FAGG is indeed in contact with Philips, as well as with other European Member States. Philips' corrective action consists of: first, a registration by the customers of the devices that are still in use; second, a regulatory approval of the changes to the design by the notified body; third, a combination of replacement by new appliances and repair by Philips and/or its service partners. The full implementation of the replacement and repair of the appliances concerned will take a long time. The exact timing depends on the regulatory approval and the number of aircraft registered worldwide. At present, the registration phase of the devices is ongoing. Philips shall consult with its notified body for the approval of modifications to the design of the appliances. This is a different type of insulation foam. The notified body has assessed the amendment as not significant in accordance with the Regulation on medical devices, so that there is no automatic suspension of the CE certificate. The notified body concerned has not yet taken a final decision on the approval of the changes made to the design and maintenance of the CE certificate. Without the approval of the notified body, new appliances cannot be placed on the market. A direct consequence of the lack of approval is that no devices can yet be replaced or repaired by Philips. According to Philips' draft Benelux allocation plan, the replacements will start at the end of September 2021 and be fully completed in September 2022. However, the allocation plan is very provisional: without the approval of the notified body, no start can be made. The speed of rounding also depends on the number of devices worldwide and/or in Belgium that are still in service in relation to the total number of potentially involved devices. According to the information available to the FAGG and the manufacturer, 55.131 CPAP/Bilevel devices are in Belgium. It should be noted, however, that not all these devices are currently in active use. As regards liability, the principles of civil liability and product liability apply. It's a legal matter. It is a very complex dossier and I, as Minister for Social Affairs, do not want to take a stand on it. Polyurethane polyester-based noise suppressant foam is frequently used as insulation foam. The FAGG does not have the design details of all medical devices and cannot therefore exclude the use of polyurethane foam in other devices. The FAGG has already effectively raised this issue with Philips. Other Member States have also made this comment, but it does not seem possible to significantly shorten the deadline, given the size of the aircraft concerned, Philips' production capacity, etc. The FAGG is in regular contact with Philips about the follow-up of this corrective action and will continue to insist on a rapid execution in the interests of patients. The manufacture of medical devices and the repair kits takes place worldwide, but not in Belgium. Philips has informed the FAGG that it is deploying its full production capacity for this replacement operation. In addition to the consultations with Philips and other European Member States, the FAGG is also in contact with the Belgian medical technology industry, beMedTech, to explore how support can be offered to both sleep centres and home care providers. Philips has created a specific website containing information related to the corrective action, the devices involved, frequently asked questions and so on. In addition, Philips created a specific web page for the registration of the devices concerned and is also offered support for this registration via a free telephone number. The problems also arise when the appliances are not cleaned with ozone. As described in the safety warning letter, the degradation of the foam may be aggravated by the use of off-label cleaning agents such as ozone or when used in high humidity or temperature environments. According to our data, these worsening circumstances are very likely not to apply to Belgium. The insulation foam is used for noise reduction and is also part of the mechanical structure of different designs. Without the insulation foam, the devices will not work properly. The removal of the insulation foam by the patient itself has not been recommended or validated by the manufacturer at any time. The removal by patients may have very negative consequences due to the potentially large exposure to harmful substances during removal. Philips is no longer responsible for the correct operation of the device after improper removal of the insulation foam by the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u103	Minister, you say that in Belgium there would be just over 55,000 people. Did these people have to register themselves for that? If I understand correctly, they have to register with Philips themselves to get a new device. Is it possible that certain people aren't aware? Have they received any warning? That's not entirely clear to me. The device is taken back as a precaution because it may be carcinogenic. I think it's going to be a bit light, and it'll take Philips a year to replace those planes. So people have to inhale those potentially carcinogenic substances for another year. If a product is placed on the market and paid in full, it is also responsible. Isn't there any stick behind the door to put more pressure on Philips? Philips may not be able to increase its own production capacity, but maybe it can share the technology and ask other companies to increase their production capacity. It is difficult to allow people to inhale those potentially toxic substances for another year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. We had a webinar in which a number of people from your cabinet participated. What I find very bizarre in this dossier is the communicative part about the patients. In the United States, aircraft are being retrieved and it is believed that this news does not immediately float to the European mainland, and that it does so in Internet times. They allow a few days to pass and receive a fair response. It is communicated that treatments should be discontinued and subsequently it concerns individual examination of whether or not treatments should be continued. I take it from your answer that you are looking closely at this together with your administration and the FAGG, but communication is crucial here. I also hope that this will be well followed up by the association of Belgian dormitories and that good communication will be made with regard to patients and sleeping centres. I have also heard that this story is very nuanced in function of the patient and his safety. That's important. I call for good communication from your services to the patients who are being treated today and who are concerned about this. This file will certainly continue to be followed. Hopefully everything will be resolved soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u105	Debates of the European Parliament 55019374C Mrs Depoorter's 55019765C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55019379C by Mrs Merckx will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u106	Minister, I will be very brief. I already asked a question before the holiday about people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. Then you said, "If you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, you have a problem. It will have to be tested, and testing costs money if one is not vaccinated." Now there is also a second group that cannot be vaccinated, but which cannot have a PCR test taken for medical reasons. Those people have a bigger problem. After all, either one must be able to demonstrate that one has been vaccinated, and that one cannot be, or one must have a PCR test taken, but neither can they. They can, of course, show that they have or have not had covid, but that must also be demonstrated with a PCR test, so that's where they also fall out of the boat. My question is very simple, Minister. Maybe it's just a small group, but these people have rights too. What are you doing with this group? The holiday is now over, but some people go on vacation after the summer, so my question is still topical. What will you do with these people if you want to roll out the coronapas in the states? How will you deal with that problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u107	The situation presented by Mrs Sneppe, namely: medical contra-indication for reduction of PCR and vaccination, has so far never been reported at the Task Force Vaccination. Mrs Sneppe, if you are aware of a specific situation in which you have a medical counter-indication for the reduction of a PCR test and for vaccination, I suggest that you give it to me. Then the experts will thoroughly analyse them and undoubtedly seek solutions. However, I do not know of such a case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u108	I am asking this question in response to a question I received about a specific case. Of course, I can't specifically...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u109	Maybe you should try to pass that on to me on an anonymous basis. Then I'll get it to the Task Force Vaccination. I'd like to know what kind of case that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u110	Is there nothing else you can do about it? A person who cannot be vaccinated must deposit 55 euros each time to go to a festival or to travel, and later to have a beer. It's not very social.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u111	No, we look at the problem of people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons with the RIZIV, because then we can ask the question of how to deal with testing requirements for such people. That's what we're looking at. However, what you are presenting is someone who cannot be vaccinated and who cannot be tested. That is very special, I must say. I do not want to rule out such a particular case, but I would like to see what kind of case that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u112	When people come to me with such a case, of course I do not ask to show me his or her entire medical record.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u113	Let's be serious. Dirk Ramaekers is a doctor. If you have a medical file, you may, with respect for the medical secret, contact a colleague or have the case examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u114	Mrs. Sneppe, I suspect that your reply was contained in just going beyond the formula of question and answer here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u115	That's right. It's a strange answer from the Minister, but that's what I'm used to in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gijbels' 55019395C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u117	Minister, this question is somewhat dated, because the situation has already changed somewhat. My question is about the obvious fact that after a covid infection a mRNA vaccine would be sufficient to achieve a sufficient antibody response. According to the latest evidence, this response is even stronger than a double vaccination in previously uninfected people. Apparently the serological tests play little role in our vaccination campaign. I don't know why that is. How come serological tests are not accepted as a disease? Why has it been chosen that only a PCR test can prove a disease? Is someone who has antibodies and has received a covid vaccine accepted as fully vaccinated for obtaining a corona certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u118	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, what role does serological testing play in the vaccination campaign? In a recent opinion, the Supreme Health Council recommends that people who have already been through COVID-19 should also give a full vaccination schedule. This advice takes particular account of the phenomenon of the new variants. After all, we know only of the Wuhan virus, the English and the South African variant, that one shot is enough. Why is the serological test not accepted? That question is actually a little answered by my previous answer. We are very uncertain whether we can decide on the basis of a serological test that someone is adequately protected. Another fact, which you ask for in another point, is a positive PCR test of up to six months old, which is considered to be a recovery certificate when using the corona certificate. So we accept a positive PCR test, while we believe that a serological test is not so easy to decide that people are adequately protected. That is why we say that these people still need a full vaccination schedule. I hope that I have answered the questions clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With all the rules and decisions taken, I do not always see clearly what they are based on. For example, you refer to the Supreme Health Council, which would recommend double vaccination in people who have been through COVID-19. However, I just read a very recent recommendation from the High Health Council that one dose of a mRNA vaccine after an infection should be sufficient. I find that confusing, at least. In other countries, moreover, this is understood in a different way. That's how I learned the story of a Swedish professor who came to a conference in Leuven. A single mRNA vaccine infection was not accepted here, whereas it was accepted in Sweden. I am therefore not always clear on what data is being used and I find the differences between the countries very confusing. Can you refer to the opinions that have been given correctly on this issue? That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u120	I was just referring to Opinion No. 9634: 1 or 2 doses if infected with SARS-CoV-2 of the Supreme Health Council. I know what you mean, in the various activities of the High Health Council, it has indeed been pointed out that one shot is effective for people infected with certain variants of the virus, but I think that the general advice of the High Health Council is nevertheless that we must fully vaccinate all people in the vaccination campaign, including those who have been infected once, in view of the new variants. There is also the doubt about the interpretation of serological tests, in particular how to read them in terms of being protected from the disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u121	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr De Caluwé: Mr Creyelman's 55019449C and 55019511C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u122	I'll go over the questions. First question: is there a view of the number of aspergillosis infections in covid patients? Were guidelines issued to test for aspergillosis? In the clinical surveillance of the hospitalised covid-19 patients, it is asked whether the patient develops a fungal infection. However, the diagnosis is complicated and can only be made correct by a combination of present risk factors in the host, mycological criteria and radiographic criteria. These specific criteria, necessary for an accurate diagnosis of invasive fungal infection, are not questioned in this covid-19 surveillance. The surveillance indicated that 0.69% of the patients under surveillance, 203 out of 29.230, had contracted an invasive fungal infection. That can be both an understatement and an overestimate of the actual incidence, because of the reasons I have indicated. There are international guidelines on the diagnosis of fungal infections, which are also applied in clinical practice. I come to the second question. The environment in which a hospital is located would increase the risk of fungus spores in the air, e.g. when buildings are in progress. Are hospitals informed about that, so they're more alert? Your third question: is there a general national plan of action? Excuse me for being brief, but I would like to refer again to the international guidelines on the treatment of fungal infections applied in clinical practice. I think you will find the answers there. We have formulated something like a national plan of action. We believe that the international directives form a solid basis. As far as your last question is concerned, do we have any idea of the resistance? Is that being investigated? The follow-up of antifungal resistance is done via the NRC, led by Katrien Lagrou of UZ Leuven. In 2019 a report was published on the basis of the data from the national reference centre:Mycosen. Epidemiological surveillance in Belgium. 2016-17. I would like to refer to that report that you find on the website of Sciensano.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u123	If I understand correctly, in our hospitals 0.69% of patients with these fungal infections would have been diagnosed with COVID. In the figures I myself have, there are 15% fungal infections in covid patients in the intensive care departments. I thought that was a big cut. It also seems to be a long way from the figures you mention. I assume that diagnosis is not easy either, and it is difficult to find out whether the fungal infection was already present before or when it appears exactly in the disease process. I will certainly consult the reports to which you refer and perhaps come back to them later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u124	There is indeed a big difference between the international publications to which you refer, and which zoom in on patients in intensive care, and the Belgian data you requested. They're of a very different order. I assume, of course, that our intensivists also know and follow this literature. However, I have no explanation for the great difference you have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u125	Minister, I have already asked you a question on this subject for the holidays. Meanwhile, the vaccination for the plus 12 has already rolled out. I would like to come back to it again and update my question. The WHO believes that children should not be vaccinated at this time: "There is not enough evidence yet for the use of vaccines against COVID-19 in children to make recommendations to vaccinate children against COVID-19." I read today that experts in the UK see that there is more myocardiitis after a second vaccination in boys around 14 years of age. In the meantime, they advise against vaccinating young people. My question is, therefore, why do you not follow the WHO's advice not to vaccinate young people and apply the precautionary principle? Do you intend to follow the advice of the UK experts and stop vaccination of young people? What scientific insight does the roll-out of vaccination for young people depend on? I'd like some references on that. If you do not want to apply the precautionary principle, who is responsible for any side effects and damage in the medium and long term? We are talking about our young people, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u126	Mrs Sneppe, I'm a little perplexed by your question. Why should we stop it? We have decided after the advice of the Supreme Health Council. That council looked at all the literature on this and held a debate on it with the Task Force Vaccination. The vaccine is offered to young people from 16-17 years of age as we offer it to adults. Children between 12 and 15 will also be given the opportunity to be vaccinated. That decision gave a detailed consideration to the assessment of risks and benefits. It seemed clear to us that there are more benefits than risks, taking into account everything we know about side effects. You're suggesting we cover for side effects. The problem of side effects is commonly known. That's not specifically a problem for children. The balance of benefits and risks has been duly taken into account. Liability for serious side effects with regard to children is regulated in the same way as for other age groups. The debate that has attracted the WHO is a debate on priorities. The WHO perhaps says first of all to vaccinate the population of poorer countries, developing countries, before starting with children. That is a convincing plea, for example in the case of a booster for the elderly. As long as there is no convincing scientific evidence for this, these vaccines can be better used in third world countries. For the truly successful completion of our vaccination campaign, we believe that there were sufficient arguments to vaccinate Belgian children between 12 and 15 years of age and not to use these vaccines as a priority in the third world countries. We were of the opinion that our vaccination campaign was well completed, assuming that that group would also be vaccinated. That can, of course, be discussed. That debate was held in detail before and during the summer. The scientific insights can all be found in the advice given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u127	Minister, I would like to read out the WHO quote on their website: "Children should not be vaccinated at the moment. There is not enough evidence yet for the use of vaccines against COVID-19 in children to make recommendations to vaccinate children against COVID-19." It does not say here that we should inoculate the third world before we start our children, but that there is not enough evidence yet for the use of vaccines against COVID-19 in children. As a concerned mother, I wonder on what scientific basis you say that we should still vaccinate our children and young people if there is not enough evidence yet. As a good mother, I'd look the cat out of the tree and apply the precautionary principle. You give an answer again, which means that the trees are no longer seen through the forest. This is not about the Third World, it is about our young people. The experts in the United Kingdom who now find that there is more myocardiitis in young people after the second vaccination, and especially in boys, advise against vaccinating young people, and you say that we should not, that our experts say something completely different.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u128	You flirt with antivax all the time. It's outrageous what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u129	Well, that's your answer. Anyone who asks critical questions is immediately pushed into the corner of the antivaxers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u130	Now listen to me instead of making up fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u131	I'm not an antivaxer. If you give me that kind of answer, you won't have to answer anymore. I am not an anti-vaxer, but I would like you to apply the precautionary principle to our young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u132	What you say about myocardiitis has been studied very extensively and there is a lot of scientific literature about it. This is followed up and all experts who are working on it say that this is not an argument not to vaccinate young people. If you think you know better than all those experts by referring to it, you flirt with antivax. You do that a lot. That's your hallmark in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u133	I want to get you the article. It was in Latest News. Now HLN is antivax too? All those experts in the UK who now say that we should be more careful and apply the precautionary principle are, in your opinion, not experts, but all anti-vaxers. I guess that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u134	Mr President, Minister, I can be very brief. It is also a written question, which we have been submitting for a long time, but to which we have never received an answer or a satisfactory answer. Either you save me the trouble, because the answer contains quite a lot of numbers and you send me the answer via mail, or I will read my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u135	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, it is not so much that I do not want to read the answer, but it contains, among other things, a graph which you should see. I would therefore ask you to pass it on. I have a detailed answer, but it also contains a graph. So I suggest I send it to you. Is that okay? It could happen right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u136	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u137	I would like to thank both the Minister and Mrs Sneppe for their conciseness and pragmatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic567x.u138	Minister, I will conclude the session and thank you for your time. I would also like to thank those Members who have asked questions today and stayed until the end. I am thinking, for example, of Mrs Gijbels, who is still visible. Minister, you can leave the premises four minutes earlier than promised. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening.
