ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u1	Mr President, with the proposals of President Biden and Finance Minister Yellen, the United States is once again taking a constructive stance in the negotiations within the OECD. The Minister put forward a plea for a global minimum rate of 21% corporate tax. A global minimum corporate tax is one of the two main pillars of the tax reform under negotiation within the OECD. As we also noted here after the European Summit in March, finding a consensus on the digital assessment will be the most difficult. However, the proposal for a rate of 21% is good news. A minimum tax will finally put an end to the race to the bottom, which has been going on for some time in the world and is putting pressure on many governments in Europe. Of course, we will also have to look at the details for the minimum corporate tax. The European Union must also take care of its own interests in this matter. I have the following questions. What are the implications of the proposal for a minimum rate of 21% for the Belgian negotiating position at the OECD? Is there already a clear European position on the second pillar of the OECD negotiations on tax reform? Are the European Union seeking to obtain a higher minimum rate? At what rate do we hope to be able to beach? Do you welcome the signal from Minister Yellen and President Biden and do you believe that a consensus within the OECD is now at hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u2	Minister, the United States' inflection with international taxation is continuing. I think we can even talk about a change of course. After announcing that they were abandoning their demand to see the so-called'safe harp' provision adopted, the latter, still through the voice of the Secretary of the Treasury, Janet Yellen, took one more step in the direction of global taxation of multinationals by declaring, on 5 April, to work with the G20 states at a minimum rate of taxation of companies that can, I quote, "stop the race down". Two days later, these nations took note of the support of the new US administration for the negotiations that have been under way for the past four years at the OECD level and stressed their desire to reach an agreement by mid-2021. These include the introduction of a floor rate for 140 countries. A step forward that would hopefully mean the planned disappearance of tax havens, since it would be a matter of agreeing on the recovery of the difference between the sums paid abroad by domestic companies and what should have been paid on their own soil. It is therefore a real international tax revolution that appears on the horizon. This change of attitude in the head of the United States, of course, augurs well as it is true that, in the absence of American support, the proposed fiscal turnaround was unlikely to materialize. I would remind you, as I did in March, that the government agreement makes these talks at the OECD a priority, while always supporting the importance of the discussions that are also taking place on the taxation of GAFAM within the European Union. Minister, I come to my questions: could you take stock of the negotiations taking place at the OECD? With American influence, how do you assess the likelihood of success? In this context, how does Belgium position itself, particularly in relation to rates? We are now learning that it is unlikely that we will exceed 21% but that the goal is to get as close as possible to it. The issue of the rate is obviously the cornerstone; too low a rate would not have the expected impact; could you give us your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u3	Minister, about a month ago, the Biden administration submitted a proposal to launch negotiations on the taxation of large multinationals. As far as Pillar One is concerned, it is intended to establish a simplified plan, no longer attempting to target specific sectors such as the digital economy. Instead, the US is proposing to identify 100 multinationals with profit margins above a certain threshold and to tax some of those excess profits in the countries where these multinationals make their sales. This should allow for the taxation of digital giants. About Pillar Two, the minimum tax, the US proposes an ambitious rate of 21%, without so-called carve-outs. These are exceptions to certain tax regimes. Our federal government agreement also states that Belgium is negotiating for a solution without carve-outs. We could therefore find an ally in the United States with that plan. I'd be happy to ask you the following questions. What is Belgium's position on the simplified proposal of the Biden administration for Pillar One from the OECD negotiations? What is Belgium's attitude towards the rate of 21% for the minimum tax? Do you share the belief that it is better for Belgium's competitiveness if the final rate is rather close to our own rate of 25% for large companies? Do you think it is realistic that the Biden proposal could generate up to EUR 7 billion additional tax revenue for our country, as calculated by the Tax Justice Network?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u4	Minister, Biden's plans are a good thing. I think we can agree on that. The way multinationals do everything in their power not to pay taxes is unsustainable. We therefore welcome these plans. I have a number of questions that are complementary to the previous questions. According to the Tax Justice Network, a minimum tax would amount to EUR 7 billion for the Belgian Treasury. In 2017, French economist Zucman calculated that our country, with its niche tax base, manages to raise 2.3 billion corporation tax or 17% of the corporation tax paid. A minimum tax and a niche tax are not necessarily reconcileable concepts. Bringing them both in is hard. How do you estimate the calculations of the Tax Justice Network? Is it correct if one takes not only a static but also a dynamic calculation into account? Is your answer the same if we also take into account all taxes and social contributions arising from the employment in Belgium by multinationals? What are the consequences of its introduction on our niche fiscality to anchor clusters of sectors in Belgium, as we have done in the past? Finally, do you consider that a minimum tax on holding companies is compatible with the Parent-Subsidiary Directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u5	I now give the floor to Mr. Van Hees, the last speaker, but other colleagues will then be able to take the floor as this is a topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u6	Mr Minister, you have noted, like some of my colleagues, that the NGO Tax Justice Network has calculated the impact that President Biden's plan to introduce a minimum global tax rate of 21% on multinationals could have on different countries, notably Belgium. According to this NGO, it could bring back $8.2 billion to Belgium if our country adopted a similar measure. According to the NGO, our country would even be ranked 13th in the world among the countries that would benefit most, in absolute terms, from such a measure. Given the small size of our country compared to the large countries ahead of us in the ranking, the gain would be proportionally very important for our country. I also want to make the link with our taxation system, and in particular the system of permanently taxed income (RDT), which exempts 100% of dividends received by large companies. This system is particularly generous. This may explain the size of the amount mentioned by Tax Justice Network. I also asked you an oral question in this committee on 10 February, in which I was concerned about the doubling in one year of the budgetary cost of RTD, which reached EUR 15.6 billion in 2018, the last year available in the inventory of tax expenditure. So my questions are as follows. Do you confirm Tax Justice Network's numerical estimates of a €7 billion gain for Belgium? What is your position with respect to a minimum global corporate tax rate as defended by Joe Biden? Do you not find that, in all cases, the Belgian system of permanently taxed income (RDT) should be reviewed, for example, by considering an imputation mechanism, which is more respectful of public finances than the current exemption mechanism, where 100% is deducted regardless of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u7	I think we are all aware of an undesirable side-product of globalisation. There are very large players, multinationals, who have not only built up a position in the market where questions can sometimes be asked, but who have also turned tax planning into an industry, which often leads to a very large escape from their contribution to the state budgets. In our enthusiasm for reform, we must, of course, beware of the illusion that this is the only way to get our state budget in order. Taxes are nice, but they have to serve for expenses that are justified. We need to get out of the system that we've been getting into during the corona period. It is not only a matter of import, but also of implementation. How do you see the positions at EU level? Any lineup yet? Are we moving forward? If the US does so, they will, of course, initially not have the Belgian budget as a concern, but they will have their own budget. To what extent will they draw the sheet and determine what is right in the regulation, as they do in many other legislative practices? Will there be an impact on investment policy and on the great outsourcing that has been there in the past? Is there not also an element of greater concentration on national production?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u8	More stakeholders? No. The floor is yours, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u9	The minimum rate referred to has not yet been set. This minimum rate is not compared with nominal rates but with actual rates calculated on the basis of the tax actually withheld. The fact that the United States is currently considering raising their corporate tax rate to 28%, and the minimum rate of a so-called Gilti system to 21%, reflects their desire to achieve fair international tax competition. Belgium is in favour of this signal, which does not, however, have a fundamental impact on our negotiating position in the hands of the OECD. At this stage, the European Union is still leaving the initiative to the OECD where negotiations on the two pillars have been taking place since 2019. However, the European Commission has already announced that if no agreement is reached within the OECD by mid-2021, it will itself make new proposals. The concrete content of these proposals is not yet known and it is therefore not possible to explain them. Belgium remains optimistic about reaching an agreement of principle at OECD level by early July. The change in the position of the United States, which is now endorsed by the Biden Government, is very encouraging in this respect. It shows that the United States wants to work towards an agreement, as is currently being negotiated at OECD level. Although many technical issues remain to be addressed, some points of disagreement have already been resolved. In addition, at several recent meetings, the United States reaffirmed its commitment to reaching a comprehensive agreement as soon as possible. Belgium will therefore continue to contribute constructively to the work at international and/or European level, in line with the priorities set out in the Government Agreement of 30 September 2020. Both the U.S. President's project and Pillar 2 of the project currently under negotiation at the OECD will result in an increase in nominal rates and effective tax levels worldwide. The profits through which dividends are distributed will be more taxed in the head of the subsidiaries. As a result, the tax that can be levied through an imputation mechanism in the head of the parent companies will be reduced. From a budgetary point of view, the impact of an imputation mechanism will therefore tend to be closer to that of the extension. In view of the complexity inherent in the application of an imputation mechanism and the negative impact of such a mechanism on the competitive position of Belgian foreign subsidiaries, the exemption will therefore continue to be preferred. In reply to the questions put by Mr Donné and Mr Vandenbroucke, who reached me only yesterday afternoon, I am very pleased with the interest of the Biden administration in the ongoing OECD negotiations. My administration has followed these proposals closely and is currently analysing them. The minimum rate of tax, the so-called Pillar 2, shall of course remain to be determined. In any case, it will be an effective rate, which will therefore have to be compared with the effective rates rather than the nominal rates applicable in other countries. At present, technical work is still under way in the OECD on various elements which may be a determining factor for a possible overall minimum tax. It is premature to take a position at the moment on a possible yield for Belgium, as the uncertain elements in possible calculations are really numerous at the moment. Any calculation could therefore give a very distorted picture of the possible reality, which needs to be further developed. The amount calculated by the Tax Justice Network does not seem realistic at first sight. My administration is currently examining their estimation methodology, but a positive impact on the Treasury can be expected. The compliance of Pillar 2 with European law will be ensured at the time of its implementation in the European Union, through a legal instrument developed by the Commission. I think I have answered most of the questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u10	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Our group, and also several other groups here, have expressed great hope in the outcome of the OECD negotiations. It's been going on ups and downs for years, but we're getting into the last straight line. The signals from the US today are a lot more hopeful than during the Trump administration. I hope that we will be able to seize this positivism, that we will be able to hold on to it and that we will be able to conclude the negotiations effectively during the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u11	Minister, I hear your caution in the numbers and calculations made by Tax Justice Network. Their estimate is 7 billion tax revenues. You are more careful, but what is certain is that, given the importance of tax niches in Belgium, there are companies that get away with 4% taxes and that will no longer be possible. The ambitious landing of these negotiations therefore has at least a double interest. This will inevitably be additional tax revenues for the country and therefore to finance a range of important public services, health, etc. This common minimum tax system will also constitute a tax revolution that will put an end to the existence of tax havens and this tax competition that has ruined some states or at least deprived them of a whole range of means of action and the crisis is now revealing the extent of their needs. We remain very attentive and look forward to seeing the outcome of these negotiations. We want Belgium to play an ambitious leadership role so that the cursor is placed as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u12	Thank you for your answer, Minister. First of all, I am very pleased that all my fellow Members agree with the principle that it is not too much if everyone does their part, especially when it comes to multinationals. All the groups that have spoken have welcomed the initiative of the Biden administration. It was different about this subject once. I am also pleased, Minister, that you and our federal government are also in favour of the proposal. Besides, you guys aren't alone in there. In the meantime, I have seen that Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, France and Spain have also explicitly expressed a positive opinion on the proposals of the Biden administration. There are a number of countries which, in terms of fiscal context, have many similarities with our country. I hope, together with other colleagues, that the OECD negotiations may lead to a positive outcome in the middle of this year. I am not going to dream about the impact on our Treasury, Mr Leysen. It is primarily about international fiscal justice and stopping the race to the bottom, which ultimately only benefits the shareholders of the multinationals and is to the detriment of the governments, who must be able to invest in needs and things that are ultimately important to everyone. With this in mind, Minister, I would like to continue to urge you to continue to play a leading role on behalf of our country in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u13	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I understand you're being careful. I also share your sobriety with regard to the estimates we have read in the press. We must be careful to count our empire. I remain hopeful and I hope there will be a breakthrough this time, but we must remain realistic in our expectations. We have also had times in the past when we were in good shape. I hope there will be a breakthrough this time. I always hear the term 'fiscal justice' again, but this, much more than fiscal justice, is simply about equal treatment. It is not possible for a small SME or an ordinary company in Belgium to be heavily burdened and the multinationals to emerge from the dance. For me, it has to do with equality. We naturally share the ambition put forward by the Biden administration in this respect, but we must remain realistic in our expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u14	Minister, you feel that the amount of $7 billion that Tax Justice Network is talking about is not realistic, but that you are going to calculate what amount that would be. I find it adventurous for you to disqualify a number before you have done your own calculations. You did the same thing about FGTB's figures on corona unemployment, and finally we realized that it was the FGTB that was right. I therefore invite you to be more cautious when you criticise the figures of others without having made your own estimates. On the substance, I think it is interesting to have approached the issue from the point of view of Belgian legislation, since your position is clear. For the RDD, you say we have to stay in the exemption system. The imputation system means that multinationals would actually pay 25% of their total profits. Under the current system, large profits from these multinationals are exempt from tax. And you say that it would not be in favour of Belgium's competitive position. So you find a pretext to allow multinationals to continue to reduce their tax bills in our country. Belgium therefore remains a tax haven for multinationals but a tax hell for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u15	Minister, in our enthusiasm we must beware of the danger that everyone is beginning to tax and that we are double taxation. The concept of 'justifying taxation' also means that the money raised is spent carelessly and efficiently on citizens and businesses. I hope that colleagues in this forum will find the same enthusiasm and the same consensus when we discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u16	Madam President, far from me the idea of censoring Mr Leysen, but in a topical debate, normally the one who has no question, must choose between asking a question and having a reply time. That is what I am just reminding you of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u17	I think you're right. I remember it right now. Next time, we will respect that and Mr. Leysen is forgiven.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u18	Mr Minister, last week you put forward a proposal in the press that would oblige all economic actors to propose at least one electronic payment system. In what form? You said it would be for the merchants to choose. But consumers must have the right to pay electronically if they do not have cash, you added. Thanks to a study by the European Central Bank, cash payments account for 58% of payments in Belgium. This percentage is decreasing in our country, but it is decreasing less rapidly than in the Netherlands, Austria, Finland or France. It is of course important to encourage electronic payments in order to combat money laundering and to facilitate the traceability of financial transactions. We also know that in this pandemic, electronic payments are strongly encouraged, which we fully understand. That being said, it also seems important to us to allow the possibility of paying in cash, especially for local businesses, the local economy and the self-employed who do not always have the opportunity to be equipped electronically. So, can you clarify the proposal that is on the government table and the scope of the obligation you are considering? Are you planning to leave the possibility of paying in cash in certain types of sectors related to the local economy and local businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u19	Mr Vanden Burre, this initiative is part of the Action Plan for the fight against fraud 2021-2024 which will soon be discussed and further developed within the government and in consultation with the external partners concerned. First of all, it is important to stress that cash payments will always be possible in shops. In other words, the intention is in no way to prevent citizens who prefer cash payments from using this method of payment. However, with a view to reducing the informal economy and taking into account the changing wishes of citizens, it should be possible to place on an equal footing the preference for cash and the growing preference for electronic payments. The presence of at least one possibility other than cash payment in all shops could thus ensure that any individual who does not wish to use them could be satisfied in all situations. At the moment, the customer does not always have this freedom of choice. Traders must also enjoy such freedom, which is as great as possible. Within the range of electronic payment options, they must be able to opt for the option that best meets their own needs and the wishes of their customers. The evolution and extension of the range of electronic payment methods have made the diversity of options considerable. The same applies to transaction costs and fixed costs for traders. Finally, all these aspects will be taken up in the course of the planned consultations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u20	Minister, thank you. I look forward to hearing you say that it will always be possible to pay in cash in local shops. You're right, because it's important to the consumer. Having said that, my question will focus on certain categories of trade. I was thinking of the short circuit, which promotes the direct purchase of products, for example, from organic farms and other producers. It's growing more and more and it's very good. Of course, if all these businesses are to equip themselves massively with digital equipment, problems could result. That is where we need to be careful. In any case, your answer abounds in my view, and I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u21	Madam President, Minister, I am sure you know that I pay very particular attention to the institutional aspect of the coalition agreement. It includes a dialogue platform and a citizen survey, which has given us an insight into timing. Your colleague Minister Verlinden clearly replied to my question when discussing her policy letter that there would be no taboo in those discussions. In this context, it has indicated that the financial aspect will also be addressed, with a review of the special financing law. One of the important points of discussion, one of these aspects, is the transfer of wealth from Flanders to Wallonia. These transfers are carried out through the special financing law, but that is only a small part, because there are even larger channels, such as the federal budget and social security, and also the interest burden on public debt. In order to be able to conduct the important debate on the transfers of wealth from Flanders to Wallonia in an objective and transparent way, it is necessary to have objective and indisputable figures. The Federal Administration of Finance seems to me to be the most appropriate body to clarify this, because there is the necessary expertise and the administration has the necessary figures to calculate the size of transfers in both the past, present and future. I also think it is important to include the effect of the coronapandemic on these transfers in the calculation, as this is still a major unknown at the moment. Mr. Secretary, can you shed some light on this? Do you instruct your administration to fully map and report on that transfer story in the light of institutional dialogue and the need for objective data on welfare transfers? There are all kinds of different amounts of studies circulating. We also have our own studies, but you will understand that political opponents do not always regard our figures as objective. In order to be able to conduct the debate purely on the basis of objective figures, I would like to put this question to you. If you are not prepared to do so, can you tell us how you think the debate on this can be conducted correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u22	Madam President, Ms Pas, the two competent ministers were heard on 8 March 2021 in the Senate's Institutional Affairs Committee. As far as the organisation of work is concerned, they have proposed future institutional reforms. On the basis of the work, the government will prepare proposals in the form of legislative texts on the division of powers, the financing rules and the institutions, which will be submitted to the Council of State for an opinion after the agreement reached by the government. In preparing this state reform, a dialogue platform will be set up so that the voice of citizens, civil society and academics can also be heard about the future of the country. If the Federal Public Service Finance is asked to cooperate in the preparation of this state reform, I will examine how the expertise on institutional reform and funding of the federal state structure present within my administration can be used as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u23	Minister, I am following very closely how the work under this institutional reform takes shape. For that, I am not just looking at the explanations given in the Senate. I have already asked many questions about this to Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval. Precisely because they say there are no taboos and the special financing law is being examined, I felt it was necessary to obtain objective data on this. Apparently, you are waiting for a concrete order from your two colleagues to take an initiative there. I regret that you do not do this yourself. A study takes some time. Your colleagues will no doubt have sent you their premeditated timetables. If you want a proper study, you should not wait until the dialogue platform is literal, but you should have started on your own initiative today. I can only hope that the task of your colleagues will be carried out, but I will ask them to do so again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u24	Madam President, Minister, a tax time bomb is waiting for many workers. In 2020, the government suggested that it was giving a gift to workers who are temporarily unemployed corona by reducing the rate of the occupational discount on these allowances from 26.75 per cent to 15 per cent. But with the globalization of allowances and wages, these workers risk suffering a serious tax surcharge when their warning-extract of role arrives. In plenary session on 25 March, unfortunately, you responded negatively to my request to consider a separate taxation of these temporary unemployment benefits in order to avoid this supplement. The question arises as to why such discrimination occurs. Indeed, the bridge right, which is the unemployment of the self-employed, is subject to separate taxation since Circular 2020/C/94 of 8 July 2020 specifically states that for them the rate of 16.5% is taxed separately. Minister, how do you justify this discrimination between the separate taxation of the independent bridge right and the overall, and therefore much higher, taxation of the temporary corona unemployment of employees? Do you not fear that this discrimination will be appealed to the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u25	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, there are fundamental differences between self-employed individuals who have an individual company, managers and employees. They form separate categories of taxpayers to whom different tax rules apply. In my view, therefore, there is no question of unjustified discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u26	Mr Minister, that is all you have to answer to justify what I think is a clear discrimination! Everyone will agree with you that the self-employed are not employees. But here the similarity is clear. On the one hand, there is the bridge right which entitles an amount when the self-employed cannot exercise his profession, which is precisely the case in the context of the crisis of the coronavirus. On the other hand, there is exactly the same kind of support for employees who, for their part, are entitled to temporary unemployment. The bridge law is clearly the unemployment of the self-employed, and it is taxed favourably. I am not at all in favour of abolishing this favourable taxation which benefits the self-employed, but I ask you why discrimination with the unemployment of employees is going to be very heavily taxed when they receive their tax slip. A lot of complaints are coming. I'm warning you, Minister. There is flagrant discrimination and you justify it in any way, excuse me for saying it. You'll hear the workers! You are not close to seeing the wave of protests against this really unworthy taxation of this government extinguished!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u27	Mr Minister, on 24 February 2021 the Court of Auditors published a report entitled "Permanent tax regularizations" which shows that during several tax amnesties of the past, revenues were regularized without the black capital that had generated them. I quote on page 4 of the report: "The Court of Auditors has calculated that EUR 44.6 billion of capital has thus been repatriated, of which only EUR 2.59 billion have been withdrawn." Thus, there are more than 40 billion black capital on Belgian bank accounts, knowing that it is not all the capital generated by fraud, but only capital corresponding to the modified income. You were questioned about this in the House at the plenary session on 18 March 2021, but you simply gave vague and general answers on your future anti-fraud plans. The first question to be asked is whether you intend to take initiatives in relation to this 40 billion black capital. In view of the differences in the statute of limitations that prevail for the tax and for justice (especially when there is, as here, money laundering), effective action on these $40 billion should be taken in concert by several ministers, including the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice. You are the minister responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud. As the minister responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, what initiatives do you intend to take in relation to these 40 billion black capitals in terms of coordinating the action of several ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u28	Minister, in June 2020, almost a year ago, the head of the advance rulings department said that there was around 50 billion black money repatriated, undeclared and well protected from tax on Belgian bank accounts. Almost a year later, the Court of Auditors confirmed, in a detailed report, not only the existence of these capitals, but also the order of magnitude. The report also makes recommendations. Recommendation No. 10 envisages a possible further adaptation of the regulation legislation specifically on these assets. In your reply to the Court of Auditors, you highlight the fact that this government voted on a draft for the accounts balances to be reported to the Central Contact Point (CPC). Of course, this is a step forward, but this CCP is only consulted in cases of fraud, as you know. However, the Court seems to refer to a systematic way to recover tax on the amounts repatriated. We're not exactly in the same situation. So, Minister, how do you intend to respond to the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors and specifically the one that envisages an "exceptional" tax on capital repatriated during previous regularizations? At a time when governments are facing billions of deficits, as billions have to be mobilised to boost the economy, there are billions sleeping on accounts and not being controlled, taxed. How do you intend to act in practice? Is it not time to finally think of an action plan to combat effectively this tax fraud that still undermines the notion of tax justice that everyone wants to see applied in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' report calculated the amount of tax-restricted capital which was potentially not subject in its entirety to the regularisation contributions applicable at the time at EUR 40 billion. The Government has developed a roadmap for reporting balances at the Central Contact Point (CCP) by financial institutions as an important step forward. While fraud indices are necessary for consulting the CCP for tax authorities, this information should be considered in relation to the exchange of information in which Belgium is involved, particularly in the context of the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) obligations. The Court of Auditors also suggests that consideration should be given to imposing on Belgian banks a form of due diligence which would focus on historically accumulated assets in an unusual manner. Financial institutions already apply due diligence measures to their clients under the anti-money laundering law. As mentioned in the draft law on various financial provisions for the fight against fraud, a circular is currently being prepared for this purpose. In this context reference can be made to the file called "Supra Bazar" which made the headlines in the press a few weeks ago. The comparison between the information held by the Belgian tax administration and the information received from Luxembourg enabled the administration to identify complex financial arrangements which could constitute tax evasion, which led to the transfer of this file to the courts, which opened an investigation. Finally, a College was set up to combat tax and social fraud. It consists of the administrations, directorates and institutions involved in the fight against fraud, as well as members of the College of Attorneys-General who are entrusted with specific tasks in the field of tax and social fraud. As you can read in the Court of Auditors' report, the recommendations will be discussed within this College as part of the coordinated implementation of a multiannual action plan to combat fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u30	Minister, I'm still hungry. I'm asking you how you're going to start the operation to try to recover those 40 billion euros from the College against fraud. You're telling me this one's gonna take over the problem and see what we can do. Finally, you don't answer me. This is problematic because it is 40 billion black capital that is related to some fraudsters. Obviously, nothing moves. Maybe one day the College will take care of it. Today, I have no specific answer as to the strategy you are going to adopt. Yet that was the meaning of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u31	Mr Minister, we need to look at things in a more concrete way, as the Court of Auditors' report allows. Indeed, its recommendations are very clear and concrete. It is therefore necessary that, on the basis of this report, your administration be able to propose an action plan and measures that could address this enormous problem, taking into account the amounts involved. Mr. Minister, you will obviously be supported in any attempt to implement measures that will address this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u32	Madam Chair, Minister, Tax Justice Network (TJN) recently released its 2021 ranking of tax havens for multinationals. As a result, this NGO analyses the inefficiency of the current concepts used by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in the fight against tax havens. TJN notes that "the OECD's flagship assessment, "harmful taxation", does not allow for the identification of corporate tax havens". Ms Harari, a researcher with the Network for Tax Justice (NJF), explained: "How can the OECD claim to be the world leader in protecting against corporate tax abuse when it is unable to detect 98 per cent of these risks of abuse? Whenever a tax haven like the Cayman Islands finds itself under the fire of criticism because it promotes corporate tax fraud by billions, it immediately replies that everything it does is in line with OECD global standards." TJN's findings can be compared with Oxfam's tax haven lists or academic work such as Gabriel Zucman, the originator of the study and the website missingprofits.world, a site that shows the reality of tax havens through financial flows between countries. The OECD's assessment is not at issue alone. TJN also reported in November 2020 that jurisdictions on the EU tax haven blacklist were responsible for less than 2% of global tax losses due to fraud. These are bad concepts that lead to bad policies, and that miss their target. Mr Minister, do you not think that Belgium must advocate within the OECD and the European Union for these bodies to review their approach to tax havens on the basis of financial reality, which shows that many countries that are absent from the lists remain effective actors in a genuine international tax piracy? Do you not think that, in the face of these failures by the OECD and the European Union in the fight against tax havens, Belgium should advocate for the United Nations (UN) to play a more important role in this field?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u33	Before answering your specific questions, Mr Van Hees, it must be clear to everyone that since 2015, it is not the OECD that sets the tone in this area, but the member countries of the inclusive framework. Currently, there are 139 countries, including the G20 countries, emerging economies and many developing countries. We can expect this number to increase further in the future. The advantage of this forum is that its members are committed to meeting the BEPS minimum standards, including those related to harmful tax practices. As a result, they are treated on an equal footing in the development and subsequent implementation of these minimum standards. The criteria and methodology used by the inclusive framework and the European Union to identify harmful tax regimes are more or less similar. As is well known, the absence of tax, or the presence of a low tax, is not sufficient in itself, but attention is also paid to transparency, fair tax rules and a substance requirement corresponding to the income earned. The work done in recent years by the European Union and the inclusive framework has led to the abolition and adjustment of dozens of regimes deemed unfair or harmful. In addition, many measures have been adopted, both at international and European level, to combat international tax evasion, such as the ATAD Directive, which contains a combination of general and specific measures to combat international tax evasion. At European level, a discussion is currently under way on a possible revision of the existing criteria for identifying harmful tax practices. Belgium supports this initiative and contributes constructively to this work. In addition, I also refer to the negotiations under way at the level of the inclusive framework for the introduction of a global tax on income from the digital economy, which would apply by extension to the income of multinational enterprises active in traditional sectors. Certainly also important, in the context of your question, is the second pillar of this project, which concerns the introduction of rules which must lead to a minimum taxation for any group of multinational enterprises. Both projects cross existing criteria and methodology to identify harmful tax practices and should lead to a complete overhaul of the tax landscape and reverse the global downward trend in tax rates. In the event that one of these projects – or both – does not materialise, the European level will then resume this work on its own. Belgium is convinced that the inclusive framework is currently the best-positioned body at international level to combat unfair tax policies, in particular in the light of the BEPS project and the ongoing discussions on the introduction of new rules to understand the taxation of the digital economy and to introduce minimum taxation at global level. Not only developed countries but also developing countries are represented in a balanced manner and treated on an equal footing. The European level should not be underestimated. Here, too, work is under way to further develop the criteria and methodology. Whether the project on the two pillars is successful or not, the European Commission is in any case ready to continue work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with you that there is an inclusive framework, which is much broader than the OECD. It's a good thing we didn't stay at the rich country club. However, it must be recognized that the concepts that are used, including in this inclusive framework, are the concepts of the OECD. You mentioned the concepts of BEPS, which are OECD concepts. Tax Justice Network's remark remains entirely relevant. The reality is that tax havens continue to function as such, and multinationals continue to benefit from them. The statistics show this, the reality shows it. Tax Justice Network pulls the alarm bell but you refuse to hear it. I take note of this, but I think that this warning from Tax Justice Network is very important and should be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u35	Mrs Cornet, the tax model as originally defined is no longer discussed. This path was abandoned in 2018 already. Although some Member States such as Austria have expressed their preference for a broader basis, no concrete initiative has yet been taken in this direction. In the context of enhanced cooperation, a majority seems to be in favour of maintaining the current composition. The aim of the Portuguese Presidency is to work on national models of tax on financial transactions that work well in practice, namely the French and Italian models. However, the Portuguese Presidency would guarantee flexibility through opt-in and opt-out possibilities and future adaptations could be possible through a revision clause. Belgium continues to contribute constructively to the discussions on the financial transaction tax as a reliable partner in enhanced cooperation and supports the introduction of such a tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. You say this option has been abandoned since 2018. However, it returned to the agenda, particularly under the Portuguese presidency. Today, we are in a situation where attitudes have changed, where everyone is well aware that everyone must contribute to taxation, whether national or European. It is important that financial transactions that stir up a lot of money can also contribute to the financing of the collective, to the financing of the recovery of States. You've talked about these two opposing tax models. In my question, I asked you how you intended to manifest your voluntarism in the discussions on this subject. I didn't really hear you answer that question. I really invite you to put Belgium much further and in a much more ambitious way on the tax model that would be implemented. You are talking about enhanced cooperation, this is already a very good first step, but the possibility of opt-in and opt-out is obviously a dimension that will reinforce this enhanced cooperation. In any case, I have heard you very often ambitious about fair taxation. I have heard you often ambitious about the fight against fraud. Here we are at a time when we can go further. I really invite you to put Belgium in an ambitious and collaborative perspective with the other European states for a better taxation of financial transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u37	Mr Piedboeuf, I have taken note of your concerns and those of the sector and have decided to re-develop a measure that provides for the refund of excise duties on unsold beer in vats and barrels. The texts have already been drafted and will be discussed at the next Council of Ministers. The aim is to put in place an administratively lighter regime than that which followed the first closure, but which still offers sufficient guarantees to avoid abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u38	Minister, action-reaction, very good answer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u39	Minister, the penalty for the tax increase varies on the basis of two elements. Firstly, there must be a material fact, and secondly, there is a kind of moral fact: whether or not bad faith, whether or not the intent to evade taxes. In the course on the tax procedure, the administration states: "Accepted in the case-law as cases where there is an intention to evade the tax: the taxable person lays down documents, books or extracts thereof which have been falsified by omissions, changes, transfers'. That is why I have two specific questions. Can you tell me whether a tax increase should be applied in the following cases and what percentage? Firstly, invoicing of goods to a company while they are used and destined for another company. Secondly, the use of a purchase invoice by changing the description of the object of the service or the delivery address of the goods.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u40	An increase in income tax may be imposed in the case of non-declaration, late declaration or incomplete or incorrect declaration. The percentage of the tax increase applied depends on the nature and gravity of the offence and takes account, where appropriate, of the level of the offence and is determined by royal decree. In your question you referred to the scale of the tax increase for an incomplete or incorrect declaration, other than on withholding tax and withholding tax. Where, in a specific case, it is established that the declaration is incorrect, the actual circumstances of that infringement must be verified. It is on the basis of these concrete findings that the seriousness of the offence is determined. In particular, it is examined whether there are circumstances in the file, irrespective of the taxpayer's will, in which there is or is not the intention to evade taxes, or whether an incomplete or incorrect declaration is accompanied by falsehood or use of false documents. Where it is established that the incomplete or incorrect declaration is based on, or is accompanied by, incorrect or even false invoices, these are circumstances which are charged when determining the seriousness of the infringement. Such circumstances may contribute to the justification of a tax increase for an incomplete or incorrect declaration intended to evade the tax or for an incomplete or incorrect declaration accompanied by false documents or use of false documents. To the extent that there is an incomplete or incorrect declaration of intent to evade the tax, the tax increase amounts to 50, 100 or 200 % of the tax payable on the unstated income. It is the grade of the offence that determines which percentage is actually applicable. In the case of an incomplete or incorrect declaration involving false documents or the use of false documents, a tax increase of 200 % may be applied irrespective of the level of the offence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your clear language: the anger of the tax authorities will fall on taxpayers who, for example, obtain illegal kitchens or cases. I suspect that the groups concerned will also pass on this information to their colleagues in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 55016269C by Mrs Van Bossuyt is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u43	Minister, the Royal Order of April 23, 2018 and the Act of October 22, 2017 amending the Act of May 12, 2014 relating to regulated real estate companies (SIR) have established the regulated real estate company for social purposes. It is envisaged that this company will be able to operate in essential real estate infrastructures dedicated in particular to housing, reception, the provision of care for persons with disabilities, the elderly, children up to three years old, and young people. CRSs benefit from certain tax advantages. Dividends are subject to 15% discount if at least 60% of real estate is invested in the above-mentioned areas or in health care and housing units suitable for health care. Mr Minister, these SIRs for social purposes are an interesting tool but, to my knowledge, they do not exist in Belgium today. Can you confirm that? If there is one, what is the respective amount of the income in the household allowance of 15% and 30% of the dividends distributed in 2020 by social SIRs? The status of social SIR does not seem to have been very successful in Belgium, in particular because of the constraints linked to the obligation of these companies to adopt the social form of a limited liability cooperative society (SCRL) with a social purpose not listed on the stock exchange. In addition, the profit may be distributed only after a reserve fund has been provided up to 20% of the annual profit. As a result of these constraints, the good will of the legislator could not be followed up. Is there any thought to change some of the constraints imposed on social SIRs? Is there any consideration of extending the type of destination of buildings in which social SIRs can invest? This could include the construction or management of social housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u44	Dear colleague, to date, there is no regulated real estate company (SIR) with a social purpose in Belgium. I would point out that the constraints to which you refer are the counterpart of the tax advantage enjoyed by these companies. There is, as it stands, no reflection aimed at changing the conditions that apply to these companies, and I am not aware of a strong demand in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u45	Minister, the information you give me confirms what I had at my disposal. Of course, if you say that the constraints are related to the tax advantage, that can be understood. But on the other hand, if the consequence is that there is no SIR for social purposes, it still seems regrettable to me. The investment needs in our society are enormous. I am thinking of the need for crèches, psychiatric care facilities, and social housing, if the activity could be expanded. In my opinion, we could very much try to think about changing the system to give public savings the opportunity to invest in these SIRs and in areas of activity which society, in the sense of our "community of life Belgium", needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u46	Minister, the Act of 22 October 2017 amending the Act of 12 May 2014 relating to regulated real estate companies (SIRs) has, among other things, extended the authorized activities of CRSs to the field of infrastructure as a whole. In the travaux préparatoires and the explanatory memorandum, the legislator has devised a whole series of infrastructures in which these SIRs could invest, from transport infrastructures to green energies (photovoltaic panels, etc.).). At a time when we are talking about economic recovery, particularly with regard to infrastructure and digital technologies, this CRS regime could play a crucial role in investing and mobilizing private savings in partnership with the State, or the Regions and Communities, in developing ambitious projects for the economic future of our country. Minister, do you have statistics on the number of regulated investment companies licensed in Belgium in the field of infrastructure work? To what extent, if any, did the income generated from the personal prepayment of dividends distributed by these companies over the last five years amount to? Is there any reflection to use this CRS tool in the framework of the Transformation Fund created within the Federal Investment and Participation Society (SFPI) and in the framework of the famous Recovery and Resilience Plan communicated to the European Commission last Friday? To what extent could this tool help debudge large sums and thus less burden Belgium's consolidated debt vis-à-vis Eurostat standards on the day they become coercive? They have been forgotten for the moment, but I think that sooner or later, these demands will come back to the front of the stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u47	In Belgium, there are currently 18 public regulated real estate companies under Belgian law and 14 institutional regulated real estate companies under Belgian law. It should be noted that these are under the control of the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) and that a complete list of all recognised CRSs is available on its website. For the year 2020, the amount of furniture collected in this respect is EUR 219.20 million. Unfortunately, data for the last five years were not available within the deadline. However, despite the amendment of the law on real estate companies of 22 October 2017, there are to date no CRSs in the field of infrastructure works, for several reasons, including the time horizon and restrictions on the SPV. Infrastructure projects are systematically focused on clean vehicles, which is not allowed by CRSs. For these reasons, CRSs are also not taken into account in the transformation fund at this stage. Moreover, for reasons of internal strategy, SFPI hardly invests in CRSs. However, CRSs can be an attractive investment vehicle to attract small savers. In a second stage, it will therefore be interesting to consider the type of investment made by the Transformation Fund and, in particular, in the second part, specifically in terms of energy transition, and to check to what extent this type of investment corresponds to the criteria of the CRS. If this is the case, then the creation of a transformation fund-based infrastructure CRS can be considered to attract private investment. With respect to your debuddling request, whether or not to include the amounts invested in a CRS in the public domain depends on the interest of the public investor in these assets and whether or not the underlying assets comply with a number of criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u48	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I have visited the FSMA website which is very comprehensive. I was surprised to see that there was no CRS in the area of infrastructure, which you have just confirmed. You have also given me some very interesting explanations. I am pleased to note that there is still a reflection on whether the CRS could be used, in a second phase, for infrastructure investments, particularly in energy, while attracting public savings. Indeed, CRSs offer guarantees in terms of transparency and governance that can be useful at a time when savings account amounts are reaching unprecedented levels and there is an urgent need to see how citizens can be trusted to invest in these areas that are promising for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u49	Madam President, Minister, I have a third question on the same subject, but it was not merged with this one. I don't understand that very well, but I'll set them aside later. Over the last few weeks, customs have intercepted more than 27 tonnes of cocaine in the port of Antwerp. In 2020, Belgian customs made use of new scanners, including three portable backscatters and two mobile backscatters, to scan containers and loads. In the coming years, the FPS Finance wants to invest further, in order to eventually scan 100 % of the containers. For this, many more scanners will be purchased, as will software. Mr Minister, can you give a current state of play on the project 100 % scanning? I have already questioned you about this in plenary. I want to be able to follow up on this file. Then I come to my second question. At the end of March, the trade union front submitted an action commitment to customs. Among other things, the unions ask for priority in the corona vaccines. Has a priority vaccination already been discussed for customs and what possibilities do you see for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u50	Madam President, Minister, the customs services have been in a disquieting situation for several years. I have already had the opportunity to question your predecessors about this. Difficulties arise at the international, European or cross-border level or in the face of terrorist problems, since this usually requires these services to concentrate on certain surveillances and thus to abandon other missions. Another example is the phenomenon of transmigration. These staff are overly solicited and resources are sometimes lacking, as is the minister's political attention to match their work. Strike movements demonstrate these difficult situations. There is, of course, Brexit, but there has also been the problem at the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation in Luxembourg, which brings together the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Germany, France and our country or, more recently, the demands at the union level for a concrete improvement in the working conditions of the customs services. I'm not even talking about vaccination when these people are on the front line as part of the pandemic. There also appears to be a structural shortage of equipment while missions are being scaled up. Minister, what was the increase in staff and funded investments in customs services during the previous Parliament (2014-2019)? What will be the planned trend in terms of numbers for the next four years? Do you confirm that there is a shortage of staff, particularly in Belgian airports and ports? What evaluation has been carried out in this regard? What investments and for what infrastructure and equipment are planned in 2021 and for the next three years? What decisions have you taken to meet the recommendations of the common union front that were presented to you two months ago? With regard to vaccination, you indicated that you wanted customs officers to be vaccinated as a matter of priority. Have any decisions been made with your colleagues in the government and federated entities to achieve this result for those staff who, I would remind you, are front-line staff? Finally, what are the prospects for the pension status of customs officers? Do you have any contact with your colleague in the Department of Pensions in recognition of the tenability of their profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u51	Madam President, Minister, customs officers have been doing a number of protest actions lately. The UNSP Finance Union has provided worrying figures on the evolution of their workforce. According to them, in 2010 there were 3,840 officers to 2,939 officers at the end of 2020, a decrease of 23 per cent in 10 years, since the union did not take into account the commitment of 386 customs officers to deal with Brexit, a task that did not previously exist. This has a negative impact on the working conditions of customs officers, but also raises important questions in the fight against fraud and crime. In addition, increased e-commerce would require more controls. For example, the number of packages transported to Liège Airport increased from 9 million in 2018 to 500 million in 2020, an increase of more than 5 000 %. So today, customs officers control only one parcel out of every 10,000 who enter Belgium. In response to my oral question No 10925 of November 2020, concerning not all staff but only customs and excise officers, you indicated that, as at 30 June 2020, there were 823 comptrollers, which does not even represent a quarter of the total staff of this administration. Minister, do you confirm the figures for UNSP Finance? How do you explain that only a quarter of the general administration of Customs and Excise is assigned to control tasks? I do not claim an increase of 5 000 % in the number of customs officers, if we follow the evolution of the number of parcels. But don't you think that in the future, these numbers should be increased, rather than being kept or even reduced according to your objective "A FPS Finances as thin as possible", to remind you of what you said? Do you have any numerical targets for the end of the legislature with respect to the customs personnel to be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u52	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, you spoke of 823 inspectors. For this purpose, you probably refer to the answer to a parliamentary question on the number of audit functions in the General Administration of Customs and Excise for which a one-to-one replacement is provided. Of course, the administration has more controlling staff than this number. For example, shiftworkers working in first-line control services and level C and D staff of the first-line and second-line control services not operating in shifts are not included in that calculation. This means that more than a quarter of the staff of the Customs and Excise Administration are in charge of control activities. The increase in the number is, of course, correct. FPS Finance, like other FPS, is subject to annual staff reductions. As a result, the number of FTEs decreased from 3,834 in 2014 to 3,109 in 2019. Following Brexit, the number of FTEs increased again to 3,368 in 2020. This is a logical development, taking into account economic activities and regulations. Investments have been made in particular in the introduction of innovative technologies and high-tech controls, in addition to routine management and optimization of existing equipment. In addition to technological developments, Brexit has been an important factor since this year. My administration is monitoring its impact. However, the parameters are strongly influenced by the coronavirus crisis, so no statements can be made at the present time on workforce development for the next four years. One of the other parameters is certainly the 100% scanning investment project, for which staffing needs will be integrated. Mr Vermeersch, in reply to your question on project 100 % scanning, I can tell you that there are a number of public contracts in preparation. The handbook for the purchase of five additional mobile cargoscanners with drive-through mode was transferred to the Treasury Inspectorate for advice. These scanning systems are expected to be operational by the end of 2022. As regards the customs programme on artificial intelligence, e.g. scanning image analysis, an AI team is being set up at the central level of the general administration. The first stand-alone models are already in the test phase. In addition, an optimization project is being carried out by carrying out necessary upgrades of the already operational scanning equipment in order to be able to use it securely for the 100 % scanning in the future. Finally, a public contract was awarded by the end of 2020. The administration is currently waiting for the delivery in September of this year of two additional mobile backscatters for deployment in the ports of Antwerp, Zeebrugge and Ostend airport. As regards future investment in general, several procurement initiatives for multi-annual framework contracts have already been launched. In the coming years, this will lead to a further increase in the number of high-tech controls and other operating equipment. I refer you to public procurement under the multi-annual framework contracts, from 2022 onwards, for electronic tracing tools, spectrometers, personal protective equipment, specific clothing and equipment, electrical appliances, manual tools and other work equipment, new service weapons and weapons, equipment to equip control devices, the further rationalization of the fleet, the adaptation and safety of buildings and infrastructure, the storage and destruction of seized goods, the modernisation of the laboratory and facilities suitable for the processing and temporary storage of samples and, finally, the transition to information and communication technologies and intelligences. As you can see, the operation of the General Customs and Excise Administration has many and varied aspects. The union issues are equally diverse and relate to the right to retirement – which falls within the competence of the Minister of Pensions – and to vaccination, including the employment of staff in specific and local cases. For each file, I consulted with the government, my administration and the unions. A new consultation with them is planned in the very near future. As far as priority vaccinations are concerned, I understand the desires of customs. In carrying out their duties, they can indeed be confronted with situations in which social distance is difficult to respect. That is why, like other colleagues for my department, I have applied to the Minister of Health for priority vaccination of the first-line control services and the search services. These applications have been analysed and evaluated against the criteria applied for vaccination policy. Currently, priority is given to services in the context of collections such as the guards, for example, so that the question of our customs cannot yet be answered positively. It goes without saying that this application will be followed up and that the situation will be discussed with the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the answer to the 100 % scanning I would have liked to receive a percentage from you. The latest figures we have heard, at the beginning of this year, showed that not two percent of the containers were finally scanned. Maybe I should put in a written question to know exactly how many containers are being effectively scanned. You are also talking in your reply about a deadline by the end of 2022. We're facing a criminal billion-dollar business here. We are always talking about black money here, but this is a very concrete business that we can tackle with very concrete measures, for example by accelerating one hundred percent scanning. I'm sure there's some work on the shelf. As far as priority vaccination is concerned, the officers are given priority over customs officers. Apparently, the Minister of Justice lobbied better for his staff than the Minister of Finance. It is a pity that all this has to be done, with lobbying which will protect the guard better than the customs officer. The government should nevertheless provide a uniform approach and a uniform signal for all those professions at risk in carrying out their tasks, without prejudicing one profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u54	Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us. I am aware of the large and numerous construction sites, but I do not hide from you that I remain a little bit on my hunger; I would have liked more details on the increase in staffing and on the shortage of staff as I referred to it in a question. As far as vaccination is concerned, I have not heard much information either. When I was looking at the customs service situation a few weeks ago, I read this. I quote the customs officers: "Despite the risks involved, customs officers have responded to every crisis at every moment. Yet they feel despised." Minister, I think we need to be able to respond quickly to some of their demands, because they are the result of their experience on the ground. I know you personally are paying attention to these situations, but these agents are waiting for a fairly rapid realization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u55	Minister, I do not agree with Mr. Pivin every day. In this case, it must be noted that we have a concern with the customs authorities; you refuse to make any commitment to the development of the workforce. We therefore expect that there will be no increase or even a decrease in the number of staff. You put forward the classic justification: innovative technologies would replace staff. However, I have noted that the number of parcels has increased by 5 000 %. It still takes staff to handle them even if innovative technologies are used. The fact that you do not respond to the percentage of containers scanned shows that there is a problem. I would also like to go back to the number of staff, whether or not they are comptrollers. You are telling us that control missions are not in fact carried out solely by controllers. In this case, your commitments to say that we are going to cut down on the FPS Finance, but by keeping the staff of the FPS Finance controllers stable, are biased, since you tell us that in fact, non-controllers are doing control tasks. Perhaps you need to review your definition of what a controller is, because for me, a controller, a priori, is someone who performs control tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u56	Mr Minister, I recall that in the discussion following the policy letters, the Flemish Interest was the only party to pay attention to your plea for an effective and efficient customs service, a plea which we can endorse. At the end of March, the trade union front submitted an action commitment to customs. According to the unions, customs is chronically undermanned. Due to the shortage of staff, French-speaking customs officers would now be operating in the port of Antwerp. How many French-speaking customs officers are currently active? Is language legislation respected in this respect? Are they able to express themselves in Dutch? Are they qualified to do so? There is also great dissatisfaction at the airport of Zaventem. Customs officials still have a hard time getting off. Especially at the Liège airport there would be a need for extra staff. The Flemish Interest is apparently an advocate for the people of Wallonia. In your view, where are the bottlenecks regarding staff shortages in customs? Do you also identify Zaventem and Liège as two problems? What opportunities do you see for using more people and resources for customs, including in the fight against the billion-dollar business of drug trafficking?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u57	From 13 March to 11 April, customs organized the operation Sky at the request of the parquets of Antwerp and East Flanders and the federal police. The action involved a large number of containers from South America being controlled for narcotics and was a direct result of the operation Sky ECC of the federal judicial police. In order to carry out the action successfully, armed officials from all other regions had to assist their colleagues from Antwerp. These included staff from Ghent, Hasselt and Leuven as well as staff from Bergen, Liège and Brussels. It concerned only the deployment of armed officials. That commitment was limited in time for that specific action. The French colleagues concerned received all the instructions in French. Due to the corona pandemic, the staff is divided into bubbles and is working with minimum occupancys on the site. As regards the organisation of the services, this creates additional difficulties, but for the period January to September 2021 only 9 holiday applications were refused in the interest of the service. It is true that the flow of goods at Bierset airport is increasing exponentially. Additional staff have been recruited for this purpose in recent years. The selection for the recruitment of 42 persons is still ongoing. There is also a one-to-one replacement for the control and shift functions and additional budget has been requested for the project 100 % scanning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55016320C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u60	Mrs Lanjri, the exemption from the transfer of pre-tax contributions provided for in Article 275 of the 1992 Income Tax Code amounts to 22.8 % of the total taxable remuneration of all employees to whom the article applies. The reason why the measure does not apply to the non-profit sector is that it already benefits from the social Maribel, for example hospitals and rest areas, and is therefore already subsidised in this way. Moreover, the non-profit sector is also entitled to the exemption from the transfer of withholding tax, as provided for in Article 275, to which I referred earlier. In addition, the social dialogue with the sector looked together at the needs for wage and working conditions for the care staff. The social agreement was signed and confirmed on 12 November 2020, with a record amount of €1 billion devoted to wages, improving working conditions, increasing staff and training pathways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I knew there was a reference or a certain link to the social Maribel. Nevertheless, there is a demand not to exclude the non-profit sector here too. Recently, I have had contacts with people from the sector on this subject. They are really asking to be able to benefit from the measure and not have to pay 1% of the deducted farm tax for shift and night work, especially since such work is very common in the care sector and in the non-profit sector. The sector can certainly use this support, especially now, in the covid period. I understand that other needs have been raised at the consultations, but the above is really a necessity. I have already tabled a legislative proposal on the issue. I stand by my proposal. I would welcome it if we could now examine whether, in consultation with the sector, which is itself a requesting party, we can provide for enlargement, especially at a time when we need all our hands on the bed. We are sure that, in addition to the existing social Maribel that additional discount, the measure will be converted into additional jobs and into additional people, which we really need in the healthcare sector. So, Minister, I am counting on you not to just leave the matter like this, but to look at the dossier from all sides and find out what is possible. I will return to you as soon as the survey in the sector, which is currently under way, is more or less complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u62	Minister, the coalition agreement envisages a digital valuation. The government parties feel strengthened by the US Finance Minister Yellen's plea for a global minimum tax for companies to impose a sales tax on digital companies. However, the United States also intends to impose import charges on six countries as a countermeasure for the introduction of their digital tax, affecting in particular large US tech companies such as Facebook, Amazon and Google. These are US taxes on goods from the United Kingdom, Austria, Turkey, Spain, Italy and India. Do you still consider it feasible, after the American'retelling levies', for the US to participate in a tax that affects mainly American companies? You have already stated in Parliament that there must be clarity in the middle of 2021 as to whether a global digital valuation is possible. If there is any blocking in this respect, the government will move the discussion to the European level. Some Member States, including Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, see tax competition as an important economic weapon and therefore understandably are particularly reluctant to do so. Do you still think it is feasible to reach agreement on a digitaks in the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u63	Mr Vermeersch, Belgium remains optimistic about an agreement in principle by early July. Indeed, discussions in the OECD have been actively continuing since early 2021. The change in the position of the United States is very encouraging in this respect. Although many technical points still need to be addressed, some points of disagreement could already be resolved, in particular with regard to the Safe Harbour approach in Pillar 1. The United States also confirmed at several recent meetings that it wanted to reach an overall agreement as soon as possible. However, we must be careful at this stage and not jump to conclusions. For example, we already know that the discussions on the US Gilti system in the context of Pillar 2 will be particularly sensitive and decisive. The European Union has indeed announced that it will take over if no consensus is reached at OECD level by mid 2021. However, as discussions at European level have not yet begun, it would be risky to anticipate the position of the other Member States and it would therefore be premature to comment on the chances of success of the project. As always, Belgium will continue to contribute constructively to the work carried out at both levels, in accordance with the priorities set out in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear a lot of optimism and 'constructivity' in that. That does not make me feel optimistic and less constructive. Let it be clear: the Flemish Interest supports a higher tax on digital companies, a digitaks, but wants it to become a tax at national level. We have already discussed this in Parliament. We warn you that digitalisation is likely to be difficult at international level and certainly outside the European Union. Moreover, revenue should primarily be used for the Belgian budget and not for the European budget to be rigid. I have already asked you about this, and I have been interrogating you on the basis of the government agreement and the distributed budget table. Will we use the income of the digitals for the Belgian budget or for the European budget? There is still no clarity on this either. We will therefore continue to follow the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u65	Mr Piedboeuf, you refer to the criteria for single accommodation. It is clear from the statement of reasons for that measure that, in determining whether the dwelling is the single dwelling occupied by the natural person owner or the purchaser himself, account shall be taken of all buildings used in whole or in part as dwellings, and over which the natural person owner or the purchaser may assert, in whole or in part, property rights. The nude ownership of a dwelling is considered a partial ownership right. The conditions for applying the reduced rate must be met at the time of the first occupancy or use of the new housing. The law provides for only two exceptions to this rule: other dwellings of which the owner is, by virtue of an estate, co-owner, nu-owner or usufructor, and the dwelling which the owner occupies as his own dwelling in which he has established his domicile. This applies to the dwelling which the owner or buyer occupies himself and where he has established his domicile. Donation is not covered by any of the exceptions. You understand that I cannot derogate from an explicit legal provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u66	Minister, this obviously creates discrimination. Finally, the possibility left in one case to regularize the situation until 31 December of the following year could also apply in that case. I thought it was an interpretation and not a derogation from the text. But this creates discrimination. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u67	Madam President, Minister, the sandwiches have arrived. So there is only a terrace missing. This is an ideal time to ask a question about the catering industry. Since the submission of this question, the Government has already taken a number of decisions on aid measures. Among other things, it concerns the VAT reduction to 6%. I would therefore like to update my question somewhat. We have established that the aid package will apply until the end of September. Are there any agreements within the government to make an assessment at that time and to see whether an extension is possible? I've seen your performance in the media. I found that successful, in the sense that the 6 % VAT measure is not so much a measure for the customer but for the catering entrepreneur, in order to strengthen his capital position. That happened quite successfully last summer, by the way. At the same time, the debate is again being held on how to ensure that these cents remain effective with the catering entrepreneur and are not being skimmed by the big brewers. Can you go into more detail about what you said in the media? That would certainly be interesting because I share your analysis on that point, at least the part of it that we have already heard. There is also a debate on the extent to which aid to the catering industry could lead to price increases. You have already made statements on this, too, but it would be interesting to make this explicit in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u68	Madam President, Minister, Easter is over, hallelujah, and we are approaching Pentecost, the feast of wisdom. However, you have been in favour of Pentecost, so again hallelujah for KB's decision to apply a reduced VAT rate of 6% between 8 May and 30 September to restaurant and catering services, including all beverages, including alcohol. The latter is not insignificant. My oral question had been tabled earlier, but Belgium would not be Belgium if economists like Mr Peersman had looked at the temporary VAT reduction with a critical look. Mr Loones did not say it explicitly, but I will say it. They refer to a possible mattheus effect, a skimming by the breweries. Does this benefit the consumer? What about the indexing? There were a whole series of comments. It would be useful for you to give your opinion on this as an update. I have the same question as Mr Loones. Are there any intentions to extend the measure? I think this is a good idea. Have you, for information, also made an estimate of the lack of VAT revenue for the next four months? My colleague, Mr Vermeersch, will also have a question about why it is precisely the catering industry and not other heavily affected sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u69	Mr Loones, I remember your question in plenary. You said in your reply that you had still worked in the catering sector. You used a term that I wanted to remember for the moment I could say that the VAT reduction is coming, but I forgot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u70	Chaud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u71	That's it. The VAT reduction is now in place. We approved in the Council of Ministers on 23 April the reduction of VAT to 6%, both for meals and for alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. That measure will apply until 30 September 2021. We have also decided to repay excise duties on unsellable beer. We will evaluate this and assess whether additional measures will be needed. We have not yet made any further agreements in the government on this, but we will, of course, look at this situation. It is indeed a measure that we have taken in support of the catering operators. The aim of this measure is not to lower prices for consumers, but to ensure that there is some extra oxygen for our catering operators. Then the question arises as to whether this will not go to the brewery. Just because of the temporary nature of the measure, it would be very unlikely that this would be the case. Indeed, prior to the announcement of the VAT reduction, several press leaders announced that they would have to raise their prices by 10%. Of course, that 10% is just what they get with this VAT reduction. It's even 15% they'll get from that reduction from 21% to 6%. In this way we can hopefully keep prices stable and at the same time we can also give enough oxygen to our catering operators. For that of course I hope with you on good weather, so that we can do a terrace on Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u72	Minister, I personally share your analysis. Last summer, moreover, we saw that this was an effective measure as support to strengthen the capital base of catering entrepreneurs. It is a good thing that you are doing that analysis here again, so that the entire sector can hear it. They need to know that in this crisis context they have to be careful that what they do is also applied in the most effective way. Of course we do not have a glass ball, we will have to see what the future will bring. We remain vigilant. I understand from your answer that you will remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u73	Of course, Minister, this measure will not come too soon. Today I read in the regional news in Bruges that a catering operator has lost no less than 300,000 euros. That's about the value of a place. We are talking about more than six months of effective closure. Hopefully next month the catering industry will be able to fully open, so also inside. We will continue to follow this matter closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u74	Gentlemen, I agree with your concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u75	Mr Minister, figures given in my question show that the use of the second State guarantee scheme is still limited today. First of all, what possibilities do you see for increasing use? Secondly, at the beginning of 2021, the media reports on lending to companies were, to say the least, negative about the attitude of banks. We also discussed this in plenary. How do you evaluate the situation at this time? Has she improved? Thirdly, the State guarantee scheme applies only to SMEs, while the first guarantee scheme covered loans to all types of companies. Similarly, the fact that the second State guarantee scheme cannot be used for refinancing loans inhibits its use. Do you see any possibility of extending the second State guarantee scheme? Is there any work to be done or a third guarantee scheme? Fourthly, for loans under the second State guarantee scheme, SMEs still have to pay a public premium of 50 basis points and even one hundred basis points for credits with a maturity of more than three to five years. Companies are, of course, looking for the lowest interest rate. Do you see any possibility of optimization in this respect? The last question is perhaps the most important question for us. We are regularly contacted by entrepreneurs, recently by e-mail from a construction contractor. The building contractor, who had properly completed the cash credits obtained from his bank, was initially promised by his bank that he could count on the State guarantee scheme. However, the bank's proposal requires him to guarantee 2 euros for each euro credit. Entrepreneurs still have the impression that banks do not play their full role in the current circumstances, in order to prove the unused State guarantees. How can cooperation between banks and companies be strengthened and how can the financial sector be more encouraged to bring these credits to the attention of the entrepreneurs looking for finance and cash credits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u76	Madam President, with regard to the second State guarantee, the following adjustments have already been made: the extension of the period of application of the guaranteed appropriations to 30 June 2021, the extension of the maximum duration of the appropriations to five years and the increase of the maximum interest rate. The purpose of these adjustments is to encourage credit institutions to play their full role in supporting our economy, through lending to SMEs. The possibility of a further extension of the second State guarantee until 31 December 2021 is currently under consideration. At present, SMEs are most in need of support in obtaining the necessary credits, so there is currently no need to extend the scope of the State guarantee. As regards the appeal to the State guarantee, I can repeat my answer to similar questions. When the aid measures are reduced and firms are restarted or re-launched, it is expected that companies will again need new loans, which will be guaranteed by the second State guarantee scheme. In addition, the loans granted under the first State guarantee scheme will come to maturity. Some of this can be refinanced through the second State guarantee scheme. It was never intended to allow the refinancing of existing pre-covid credit under the State guarantee for SME loans. The aim was to stimulate new lending in particular. For existing appropriations, the moratorium on company appropriations was worked out. The State guarantee must comply with the requirements of the Temporary Framework on State aid to support the economy due to the current COVID-19 outbreak, in particular as regards the minimum level of guarantee fees. So there is no maneuvering space in that area. In general terms, the National Bank of Belgium has no evidence that the number of refusals to lend is higher in the corona era than in the precorona era. Of course, I share the view that the banks must continue to provide the real economy with the necessary appropriations, and to this end they must also use the reserves that have been created. However, banks must also exercise sufficient caution when granting loans and can only provide credit to companies that can demonstrate sufficient repayment capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u77	Minister, we agree on the finality of supporting our companies in cooperation with the banks. That is why we will continue to follow the dossier very closely. In any case, we are counting on you to continue to raise the issue in your regular consultation with the banks, so that the financing for the companies can continue to be smooth, especially if they restart, or if they have continued to function, I am thinking, for example, of this concrete construction company. This is crucial to keep our economy running, all the more so in the light of the forthcoming unseen economic crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u78	Mr Minister, on 10 March 2021, I asked you a question about the scope of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 February in the context of the post-tax recovery. The Constitutional Court ruled that it was indeed a breach of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. It is about people with a small side-earning, in this case even a seat badge, who cannot, of course, enjoy the tax cut-off rule. You subsequently replied in response to a similar question by Mr Van der Donkt on 30 March...... that the FPS Finance investigation into the consequences of the judgment was still ongoing. What are the consequences of that judgment, Minister? Is the judgment now effectively interpreted as a valid precedent for all tax pension traps for several years, i.e. up to five years ago? I refer to Article 376 (1) of the Income Tax Code 1992. If the judgment does not apply to all cases, what cases will the tax authority make automatic corrections for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u79	Madam President, Minister, I have already tabled this question for the third time, so I will not repeat it entirely. I refer to the text of my question as tabled and I hope that you will now be able to reply so that I do not have to put the question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u80	My administration provided me with its analysis of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In consultation with my administration, I decided to implement the consequences of the judgment in cases where a pension is obtained combined with another low income that is not a replacement income. In the context of the judgment, that low income must therefore be a different income from an unemployment benefit, a statutory sickness or invalidity benefit or another replacement income. The administration will also proceed to centralised automatic exemption from the fourth quarter of this year. Unfortunately, this is not technically possible before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u81	Minister, your answer is quite positive news. Hopefully, in ten years' time, I'll be able to get a few seat badges. I will, of course, work hard for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u82	Minister, thank you for the short answer after the long analysis of the undoubtedly very complex judgment of the Constitutional Court. What do you mean when you say it is technically not possible for your services to proceed? Is this a computer problem and is it technically impossible to process it or is it a legal problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u83	As I have said, I have instructed my administration to give that interpretation. They have to implement that in the planning. I'm not sitting next to my people and I can't look them in the eye, but if they tell me they're doing this as soon as possible, I trust they will. As has been said, this will be done in the fourth quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u84	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u85	A dozen days ago, ClientEarth launched legal proceedings against the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) for its participation in the European Central Bank's (ECB) financial securities buyback programme since spring 2015. The NGO recalls that the ECB and the national central banks have an obligation under the European Treaties to "support the Union's general economic policies", including its policies to combat climate change. However, it appears that half of the EUR 268 billion in corporate bonds purchased by the ECB through the Corporate Sector Purchase Program (CSPP) relates to fossil-fuel companies. To be consistent with the Green Deal, the financial sector should exclude these assets from its purchases as they contribute significantly to greenhouse gas emissions. In our view, all public authorities should follow a strict divisive programme to get out of investments in fossil fuels and the most polluting sectors. Minister, what is your agenda for the Belgian National Bank to no longer invest in such polluting financial products? Can we hope for an eventual exit from these types of investments? Do you also intend to plead with the ECB for a genuine policy of disinvestment of fossil fuels and carbon sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u86	Madam President, Minister, Mr Vanden Burre has already given an introduction. The NGO ClientEarth fishes the buy-in programme of the European Central Bank, which allows national banks to pump money into the economy through the purchase of corporate bonds. The lawsuit against the National Bank of Belgium is apparently against the ECB's Corporate QE programme, which would still be heavily invested in the four sectors that contribute most to climate warming. The NBB is not the only central bank in the EU to buy corporate bonds, but would be the most active buyer. Climate activists argue that environmental criteria are not yet sufficiently taken into account in internal credit assessments or in the models of credit institutions that many central banks rely on for their activities. By the way, I would like to remind colleagues Vanden Burre and Vanbesien and also you, Minister, of a press release on China today. Between January 2016 and April 2020, Chinese state banks pumped an estimated EUR 12.5 billion in loans to companies that mine raw materials such as wood, palm oil, soya and rubber. We're talking about deforestation. We want to be the best student in the class again, but you just need to take a look at what's going on in Asia. Minister, what is your view, also in the light of the trial, of the possibilities of the National Bank of Belgium to play a role as a climate lever? Can you give an update on the "betting on a green financing strategy to accompany the financial sector in aligning its activities with the Belgian climate objectives" announced in the government agreement with Minister Khattabi?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to refer to my speech on last week's debriefing in connection with the Ecofin meeting, but I would like to reiterate the most important elements. The National Bank of Belgium and the European Central Bank shall conduct their monetary policy independently from the Member States. This implies, in particular, that governments should not seek to influence these institutions in the exercise of their mission. It is therefore necessary to trust the European Central Bank and the National Bank of Belgium to act in accordance with their mandate, which expressly specifies that the main objective is price stability. It is not for me to say in one sense or another, but I understand from the various statements made by Mrs Lagarde and other members of the Governing Council that environmental protection and climate change issues are taken into account in the ongoing review of the European Central Bank's strategy, but that this is always done in accordance with the main objective of price stability. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU provides, inter alia, that environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the definition and implementation of Union policies and actions, in particular with a view to promoting sustainable development. It is up to the ECB to determine independently how it takes those objectives into account in its monetary policy. The ECB's policy objectives are determined by the European Treaties. I see no reason to change the treaties in this respect. In any case, the development of a sustainability strategy for the financial sector is an important policy area to be climate neutral by 2050. In consultation with the Minister of Climate, measures are being taken to make financial flows within the Belgian financial sector more sustainable in order to mobilise them in favour of the climate and the environment. The position of Belgium in the European integrated markets makes it necessary to register the Belgian framework in the direction that the European Union is giving us. The various financial authorities, including the FSMA, and the National Bank of Belgium, are closely involved in achieving this more sustainable financing. They shall actively contribute to the development and practical implementation of that strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is understandable that all this is linked to agreements at European level. It is a logic that we understand. That said, and as you pointed out, environmental and climate objectives are important and our conviction is that finance and investment have an enormous role to play. Perhaps it is a role that is not sufficiently promoted and that is not discussed enough, but disinvestment campaigns (when hundreds of millions of euros or dollars, or even more, are disinvested by public authorities or private funds) have a major impact on the direction and support of these polluting and CO2-emitting industries. This remains a priority for us in our efforts to achieve climate goals. We will repeat this and continue to support any such action and influence investment and financial matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u89	Mr Minister, you have stressed above all the independence of the ECB's monetary policy and the current European framework. That is the reality, but of course there is also the reality of the coalition agreement. It is my job as an opposition member to see to what extent paper is not only willing, but also practical. So I will also give Mrs Khattabi a look at the progress made in implementing that part of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u90	Minister, I do not need to remind you of the principle that, after a major crisis, the economy is being rebuilt through investment and that it is best to choose the economy of the future rather than the economy of the past. That means looking at a number of things in a new way. That is not obvious, because for some it is too fast and for others it is not fast enough. We really need to go to a cover, work on a transition. This will require a clear vision and clear decisions in many areas. We will all have to do so in the coming years, not just us, Mr Ravyts, but also the Chinese. That one points to the other should never be an excuse to do nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u91	Mr Minister, at first glance my question may seem a bit detailed, about the procurement procedure whereby Professor of Tax Law Delanote, a member of the Supreme Court of Finance, was appointed as coordinator for the drawing up of the major fiscal reform announced in the federal government agreement. We know that at the beginning of May 2020, ten experts from the Supreme Court of Finance delivered the end result of two and a half years of study work on how to make personal taxation simpler, fairer and more transparent. 400 pages full of analyses and calculations, 20 scenarios for a reduction in tax pressure on labour, 80 possible measures to finance that operation, but no conclusion, synthesis or final recommendation putting forward one model. However, an annex with a majority proposal and an annex by a minority group of experts. Last May, by the currently selected coordinator, it was stressed that the majority position was indeed a conclusion and a good starting point for the concreteisation of figures. A tax shift, in other words, where the reduction in pressure on labour would be financed by the removal of benefits, but also by some new taxes. De facto, we are talking about the model of dual income tax, whereby labour is taxed progressively and movable and immovable income is proportional. In any case, the discussion on the maximum wage increase at the top of the expected index of past and future days and weeks brings the whole increase in net wages that we are in favour of back into the realm of reality. What exactly is the assignment of the appointed coordinator? What budget was allocated to this task? What exactly is the timeline for this assignment? Is there already a timetable for what Mr Delanote should coordinate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u92	Mr Ravyts, on 3 March 2021, FPS Finance awarded the mandate of coordinator of the broader tax reform to Ghent University in the person of Professor Delanote. The task of the coordinator is to prepare and develop the broader fiscal reform, the guidelines of which are set out in the government agreement and also in my policy statement. That task consists essentially of two shutters. Firstly, the coordinator is expected to develop a fiscal model that is coherent and innovative, taking into account the guiding principles of the government agreement, and that can pass the test against the higher legal standards. The coordinator shall conduct the research in full independence and shall determine, inter alia, the methodology to be followed. Secondly, the coordinator should accompany and steer the reform process with the aim of implementing the reform framework he has developed in a concrete manner, thus giving substance to the ambition to modernise, simplify, make the tax system fairer and more neutral, including in the formal field, including in the field of collection processes. The coordinator will look for convergences and monitor the reform process with the aim of having a proposal for broader fiscal reform before the end of the legislature. The assignment comprises several phases, which can be broadly described as follows. Firstly, the delivery of a note setting out the general principles of a broader tax reform. Secondly, the delivery of multiple vision notes related to various aspects of taxation, such as investment tax, property tax and auto-tax. Thirdly, the technical drafting, which can also serve as a basis for drafting the legislation. Finally, providing assistance during the legislative process. The coordinator shall be appointed for a period of three years, in particular from 9 March 2021 to 9 March 2024. The budget for this contract is 98,010 euros, including VAT, per year. Ghent University will bill the FPS Finance on the basis of services provided and accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for that information. The fiscal reform is, of course, a very important issue and part of your policy, as we also heard from your policy statement. Madam President, at a forthcoming committee meeting we may need to discuss how we can obtain interim reports on the progress of this important task in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u94	The President: Mr Freilich's 55016634C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u95	Mr. Ducrame apologizes for not being able to join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u96	Minister, a few months ago it was announced that the so-called transformation fund would play an important role in the Belgian revival. On 29 January, on a proposal from you, the Federal Council of Ministers approved two draft royal decrees to transfer assignments to the FPIM. The FPIM was first entrusted with a delegated mission of solvency and relance, consisting of the creation of a specialised subsidiary, with the aim of participating in investment funds for companies affected by the corona crisis. On the other hand, FPIM was also entrusted with a delegated transition mission to participate in the creation of an investment fund that wants to invest in the ecological transition. It's about that investment fund I want to ask you about. 250 million out of the 750 million euros for the transformation fund would be used for this purpose. At the beginning of February, in a reply to Mr Van Besien, you said that it would be up to the fund manager, who would be selected, to determine the companies and sectors that will have the greatest impact on achieving the stated goal. The choice and ticket of investments would be based on EU taxonomy and EU recommended ESG standards. In the meantime, you know that there is a significant evolution in this EU taxonomy. What is the state of play with regard to the investment fund for the ecological transition within the federal transformation fund? Has a fund manager been selected yet? Is this fund already operational? Were the companies and sectors already defined? What has the FPIM done since the government took office to help companies reorient themselves in line with climate objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u97	As Mr Ducarme is not present, I will concentrate on your questions, Mr Ravyts. Your question is about the ecological transition fund that would be set up in collaboration with the FPIM and the private investors through a delegated mandate. It will receive the necessary resources in 2022. So the fund doesn't exist yet. The FPIM is currently mainly carrying out the administrative preparatory work needed to set up this fund. An RFP will be issued for the appointment of a fund manager, a specialist in this field. The fund manager will, among other things, have the task of determining the companies and sectors that will have the greatest impact in achieving the objectives of this fund. The choice and ticket of investments shall be based on the taxonomy of the EU and the ESG standards recommended by the EU. This is a commitment under the European Green Deal, in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Pending the establishment of this fund, the FPIM will continue to assess the environmental impact of its participations before taking any investment decision and will continue to encourage companies and their portfolio through its participation in the management bodies to pursue a sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u98	So, Minister, there is not a lot of evolution in it yet, but it is important that it is apparently for 2022. You must have read the interview of Professor Schoors, the Vice-President of the FPIM, just like I did. I thought that was a very strange interview, because he criticized the national revival plan, which apparently is not his ideal plan, while the green politicians in this government applauded it as a green tilt moment in the history of this country. We'll talk about that weird interview later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the article you are quoting, the Administration has not reconsidered its position on the deduction of so-called back-service premiums. In this regard, it applies, as in the past, the relevant tax provisions. They clearly state that all legal and extralegal retirement benefits, expressed in annual annuities, may not exceed 80% of the last normal gross annual remuneration. Therefore, while back-service premiums also fund benefits that do not exceed this limit of 80%, they remain deductible as professional expenses. In the event that a director of a company has received group insurance from his former employer and that the company in which he is a director of a company grants him a pension commitment which provides for a benefit which covers the years taken outside the company, it is obvious that a quotité of the bonus of the new employer may not be deductible, since the years taken outside the company are already covered by the premiums of the former employer. This also applies to workers, but as far as they are concerned, the exception is contracts with a coverage of non-company years. The situations of rejection of unaccepted expenditure highlighted in the article are the result of greater efficiency due to the access available to my administration to the Pension Data Bank of the second pillar, managed by Sigedis. This database, which has been set up to facilitate the tax control of this 80% limit, has for some time made it easier for my administration to be aware of all the extralegal benefits granted to a company manager or an employee through various insurance contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u100	Minister, thank you. I am reassured that there is no reversal of jurisprudence and that we must not always trust – as we know – that the newspapers write.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u101	Madam President, Minister, when I listened to De Morning on Radio 1, I choked on my coffee when I heard your explanation about the greening of the company car park. After all, this was to be expected. The coalition agreement clearly states that it wants to encourage companies to green the fleet. There were also the pending legislative proposals by Mr Van den Bergh, but also by Mr Lachaert. That last proposal has already been introduced and dealt with in part in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate Policy and will be the subject of hearings later on. You confirmed in your explanatory statement that the government has the ambition to release greenhouse gas from all new commercial vehicles by 2026. This means that companies that continue to offer commercial cars with internal combustion engines to their employees would lose all tax advantages. That method raises a lot of questions. Hence I was forced to incorporate them into an interplay. If there is no longer any possibility of deductibility in corporation tax and thus in personal income tax, i.e. for professional use, i.e. the total cost will be part of the expenditure rejected, this would also de facto mean that both the employee and the manager could not in principle be taxed on a value advantage in kind. A tax has already been levied on the full value. This also means that there could no longer be any question of the taxable share, i.e. the value advantage in corporation tax. That is the proportion that then falls into the rejected expenditure. If that value advantage were to continue, you would de facto charge a double charge. In this case, does the government intend to abolish the benefit of all kinds for the employee and the manager if there can no longer be any claim to tax deductibility? I already asked your predecessor in plenary a question about the loss of revenue from excise duties and VAT on fuels. In what way will this be compensated if people become more and more electric? There is never any specific mention of this. Does this mean, in the long term, an increase in fuel prices, of which individuals will also suffer? Will it perhaps be the electricity bill that is going to rise, which will make the use of the washing machine for mother the woman more expensive? What tax treatment do you plan for the costs related to charging vehicles at the employee or manager's home? There are a lot of discussions with tax inspectors about this at the moment. The costs that can be taken into account in the context of deductibility are discussed. Are you opting to address serious standards or are you going to work on the basis of proven costs? In what way will these costs be deemed to be proven? Has the government laid an egg on that yet? You indicate that electric vehicles will be and will remain tax deductible at 100%. However, you know that many entrepreneurs are concerned because Belgium offers little legal certainty. What legal certainty will you be able to offer them? How long will this deductibility be guaranteed? Does the Minister guarantee that vehicles purchased before 2023 will continue to benefit from tax treatment under the current system? How are you going to prevent companies from extending the life of their internal combustion engine vehicles to the full depreciation of the asset? How do you reconcile that with the environmental impacts that the government puts first? In view of the government's communication, vehicles with an internal combustion engine are at risk of falling in value, with consequences for individuals and businesses. We've seen that before in a similar file. When you made diesel more expensive than gasoline, diesel cars were suddenly worth nothing. People then started buying petrol cars massively, leading, among other things, to higher CO2 emissions. It therefore had certain effects on the market. If vehicles with an internal combustion engine are in no way tax deductible, many managers will be inclined to purchase their vehicle privately and thus continue to operate with an internal combustion engine. However, the payment of a higher wage in return is tax deductible or the liquidation reserve can still be called upon. In that case, a value advantage will not even exist anymore and no social contribution of 22% will have to be paid on that value advantage. In what way do you ensure that this measure will not have the opposite effect? How do you frame the measures in the story of the circular economy? What should happen to the existing vehicles? After all, exporting them to Africa is not a solution either. During a hearing in the Climate Committee, we heard earlier that commercial vehicles are only 10% part of the fleet and have a relatively young average age of one and a half years, while private vehicles are on average ten years old, are much more polluting and account for 90% of the fleet. How do you reconcile your ambitions with the facts? New rules on deductibility have already been introduced in 2020 which have reduced tax deductions by an average of 20%. However, I have never seen an evaluation of this. Did the measure then have the desired effect and contribute to the shift to electric driving? Did an evaluation happen, by the way? You also talked about the full deductibility of charging infrastructure if it would also be made available to third parties and if the energy for the charging post is generated in a green way. If companies do not have the opportunity to make the charging infrastructure available to third parties, what will the deductibility look like? Finally, I'm not a car freak, but I like to look around at what's going on at the car market. I see that the cost of electric vehicles quickly rises to more than EUR 50,000. I'm talking about cars with a decent driving range, not cars with only 150 kilometers of driving range. I am thinking, for example, of a car for a representative or a manager, for which a driving range of 500 kilometres is quickly required. The cost for many companies is a stumbling block for making the cover. Do you believe, Minister, that with the recently announced offer, affordability for businesses and small self-employed people is guaranteed? We must certainly watch over the democratization of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u102	Madam President, Minister, I would like to reassure you that my speech will be shorter, because I see that we are approaching 6.30 p.m. I'm gonna start with a positive note. I think it is good that you are already making a proposal. You have also announced this in connection with the coalition agreement. It is an important reform and then it is never easy to come up with a project. Of course, there are a lot of questions and concerns about how they are being worked out. This is always the case with a major reform, and this is a major reform. However, I would like to focus on two aspects on which I am particularly concerned. Firstly, it concerns the user with a smaller company car. The supply of electric commercial vehicles is growing every year, but we still cannot ignore the fact that they are more expensive. My first major concern is whether there will be an electric alternative in the same budget category for lower-wage workers and who will therefore also be provided with a smaller company car. Therefore, it is difficult to understand and very problematic that your plans hybrid cars prices tax from the market. Moreover, those hybrid cars would be a good fallback in case the necessary adjustments to the electricity grid are not made. And that is just a problem in Belgium in the shorter term. In addition, companies will already feel an increase in that valuation from September 2021, as new business cars will then be taxed more heavily. New plug-in hybrids purchased from 1 January 2023 will be subject to a maximum deduction of 50% for the consumption of petrol and diesel. So there are a lot of adjustments, which are probably inevitable in the long term, but the speed with which they are introduced can be problematic. Minister, what additional budgetary revenue do you expect per year from September 2021 to 2026? Why can't you consider taking hybrid cars into account in the transition period up to 2030 as a cheaper alternative to pure electric cars and as a relapse option in case the adjustments to the electricity grid are not made? What policy are you planning in the coming years with regard to excise duties or energy taxes on electricity consumption of electric cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u103	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel, Mr Donné, in the government agreement, we have indeed agreed that all new commercial vehicles should be greenhouse gas-free from 2026 to improve air quality, reduce the climate impact of our transport and encourage innovation in the automotive sector. That is why a proposal has already been tabled by Mr Lachaert, Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Vanbesien. About two weeks ago, I submitted a proposal to my coalition partners to implement that point of the coalition agreement, in particular the zero-emission approach for new commercial vehicles from 2026 onwards. This proposal is currently under discussion at government level. After that, in the near future, a draft law should be submitted and discussed in the Chamber. The details of the measures will be discussed in detail at the meetings of the Committee of the Regions which will discuss this draft law in the coming months. More generally, I am convinced that these measures, because of the high number of commercial vehicles and their intensive use, will make an important contribution to the necessary reduction in CO2 emissions and that due to the spillover effect on the private second-hand market, the measures will eventually also lead to an accelerated greening of the private vehicle fleet. I can also clarify that the proposal has taken account of the need for legal certainty, a principle which I consider to be particularly important. Indeed, the proposed tax tightening for commercial cars with CO2 emissions is widely communicated in advance and spread over time enough to allow companies to adapt to it. I also intend not to touch existing contracts. By the way, there are many car brands that have a fully electric model on the market today. In the coming years, this offer will only expand further and the average price, which is already often below EUR 50,000, will fall further. It is also often forgotten in these price discussions that, at present, the higher purchase price during the lifetime of the car is largely offset by lower consumption and maintenance costs. In addition, from 2025 more and more car brands will switch to simply producing electric cars. So it seems to me to be a good policy to anticipate this irreversible evolution and to align taxation with it. Mr Van Lommel, with regard to your question on the benefit of all kinds, I can refer to the long-standing position of my administration, which has often been confirmed in answers to parliamentary questions, which means that the amount of the benefit of all kinds taxable on the employee may be deducted from the expenditure rejected by the employer. With regard to the new deductibility rules applicable from 2020, I am not yet able to provide you with figures, because the declarations relating to that taxable period still have to be submitted. Finally, Mr Donné, in reply to your first question, I would like to say that the figures will of course be communicated in the parliamentary debate on this proposal. It is obvious that I should like to give Parliament the first example of the figures contained in the proposal for the greening of the taxation of the company car fleet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u104	Minister, you have made a proposal to the coalition partners who are currently at government level. I understand that, of course. You are actually referring to the discussions that will take place in the coming months, but why do you make such statements in the press, if logically questions arise from them? So it does not seem unusual to me that you are already getting these questions on your plate today. When you make these statements as a minister, you refer to future debates. I'm sorry about that. If that really is something that still needs to be tested at government level, you should not have made those statements in the press. There is nothing in itself against behavior-driven taxation. No one can oppose that, but the only question is: how can we manage this? You indicate that we must move towards a necessary reduction in CO2 emissions. You want to do that through the commercial vehicles, which currently account for 10% of the vehicles on the road. You also want to make the shift to the private market, because the vehicles will have a second life there. However, what are those batteries worth after 150,000 kilometers? Those cars won't be worth anything. All this will have to be explained in the future. You point out that we must anticipate what the market is doing today. I've also put my ear to listen to a number of car brands. I asked them what the prices will do, because it is said that the selling price will fall in the future, when production rises. The answer is often negative. In any case, an electric car will be more expensive in the future than what the consumer is paying today. Minister, I have put forward very specific questions, which are very pertinent and very closely in line with what you have said in the press. However, you have not really given an answer. So my concerns aren't gone at all. Madam President, that also means that I will table a motion of recommendation in the hope that my concerns will certainly be taken into account in those discussions, as the whole story is still being discussed within the government at the moment. Thus, if the government moves to electrification of the company car fleet, it can do so in a less aggressive way in terms of tax deductibility. After all, Minister, you know that the statements made have caused concern to a large number of companies. As I indicated, the dossier has not yet been knocked off, but concerns have already been expressed by the market. You should know that when you make such statements, the second-hand market always responds to the whole story. We have seen this in the past. It seems that there is not enough thought about this. Madam President, I will give you the motion in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u105	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, - having regard to the government agreement on the ambition of greening commercial vehicles, - having regard to the government's announcements that new commercial vehicles should be greenhouse gas-free by 2026 and who continues to offer commercial cars with combustion engines to employees will lose all tax advantages in this respect; - having regard to the high cost of electric vehicles with a large range of driving, which is rapidly increasing to more than EUR 50,000, - whereas the high cost hampers democratisation; - whereas the government will have to look for methods to compensate for the loss of revenue from VAT and excise duties on fuels and the bill will be passed on to the public; - having regard to the fact that commercial vehicles account for only 10% of registered vehicles with an average age of 1.5 years and private vehicles represent the remaining 90% and an average age of 10 years with a greater impact on the environment; - whereas the Government's announcements help to reduce the value of all vehicles with an internal combustion engine; - having regard to the adjusted deductibility rules introduced during the 2020 revenue year and not adequately assessed to date, but already implied an average deduction limit of 20%; - having regard to the uncertainty surrounding the security of supply of energy from 2026; - having regard to the slow roll-out of loading devices, - considering the creativity which managers will show by these measures and which will imply an opposite effect; - whereas the removal from circulation of vehicles with an internal combustion engine and their subsequent export to other continents is not a solution and runs counter to the ambitions of the circular economy; - in view of the very high car tax in Belgium compared with other countries, asks the government - to reduce tax deductibility for commercial cars with an internal combustion engine so that the change is feasible and affordable for all; - to ensure that the tax deduction of fully electric commercial vehicles remains at 100%; - to ensure tax deductibility of loading posts of 100 % without any additional conditions such as the provision to third parties and the origin of the energy; - develop an open and transparent plan showing how the lost tax revenue from fuels will be compensated and who will pay this account; - in the case of the total removal of the tax deduction of commercial vehicles, the advantage will no longer be taxable for employees and employers, otherwise a double taxation will be levied; - to exercise caution when communicating policy in this area so that the second-hand value of vehicles equipped with internal combustion engines remains guaranteed; - to establish a clear system for the tax treatment of charges relating to the charging of electric vehicles by the worker or manager at home, so that these can be deemed to be conclusively proven; - examine the undesirable side effects of the communicated tax restriction, including the extension of the life of existing commercial vehicles after full depreciation (where the book value after 5 years is generally zero), the purchase of a private vehicle with combustion engine so that no value advantages and social contributions are due..." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, - having regard to the government agreement on the greening ambition of company cars; - in the light of the government's announcements that, by 2026, new company cars will no longer be able to emit greenhouse gases, and that any company offering company cars with a thermal motor to its employees will lose all of its tax advantages in this respect; - in view of the high cost of electric vehicles with a great autonomy, which can very quickly exceed EUR 50 000; - Whereas this high cost constitutes an obstacle to democratisation; - Whereas the Government will have to find ways to compensate for the loss of VAT and excise revenue on fuels, and the invoice will be passed on to the public; - since company cars account for only 10% of registered vehicles, with an average age of 1.5 years, and private vehicles account for the remaining 90%, with an average age of 10 years and therefore a greater impact on the environment; - Whereas the Government's announcements will help to reduce the value of all thermal motor vehicles; - having regard to the amended deduction rules, which entered into force during the revenue year 2020, and whose impact has not been sufficiently assessed to date, but which have already led to a 20% limit on the average deduction; - given the uncertainty surrounding security of energy supply from 2026; - in view of the slow deployment of charging devices; - in view of the creativity shown by company managers as a result of these measures, which will have a contrary effect; - Whereas the removal of thermal motor vehicles from the road and their export to other continents is not a solution and runs counter to the ambitions of the circular economy; - in view of the very high cost of car taxation in Belgium compared to other countries; asks the government - less radical elimination of tax deductions for company cars with a thermal motor, so that the transition is feasible and affordable for everyone; - to ensure that the tax deduction is maintained at the level of 100% for all-electric company cars. - to ensure, accordingly, the tax deductibility of charging stations at 100% without additional conditions such as the provision to third parties or the origin of energy; - to draw up an open and transparent plan indicating how the tax losses on fuel will be compensated and who will pay the invoice; - in the event of the complete abolition of the tax deduction for company cars, avoid double taxation by not imposing any advantage on employees and employers; - to exercise the necessary caution in the communication of the relevant policy in order to preserve the value of thermal motor vehicles on the market of the occasion; - to draw up clear rules for the tax treatment of expenses related to the charging of electric vehicles at the home of the employee or company manager, so that they can be unequivocally regarded as proven; - to examine the undesirable effects of the announced tax restriction, in particular the extension of the life of existing company cars after full depreciation (the book value of which is generally zero after 5 years), the purchase of a thermally driven car by an individual so that no tax or social contribution is due." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Steven Matheï. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Steven Mathei. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic467x.u106	Minister, I had to laugh a little at your answer to my first question on the revenue from the budget, in which you say you want to leave the scoop to Parliament. So where are we now? I thought we were in Parliament, but that will be discussed at another time. For the rest, going fast is not bad in itself, but everyone has to be with us. The infrastructure must also be monitored, and I think that you might have difficulties in this regard, which will make your greening of the fleet an electrification rather than a greening. However, we are waiting for the texts to be negotiated and more questions will follow.
