ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I submitted this question before the summer recess. At that time, certain measures were in force, such as a basic entry ban for non-essential travel for non-EU citizens. At the moment there are no entry bans, but that can of course still change if the covid situation deteriorates. My question concerned paragraph 2 of Article 21, which regulates the entry ban for countries with a very high risk. Then there were 29 countries on that list. It was also said that exceptions were possible. One of these exceptions is a compelling humanitarian reason. A certificate of compelling humanitarian reason must be issued by the Belgian diplomatic or consular post and approved by the Foreign Office. There was then a person who was palliative and wanted to say goodbye to his parents who live in South Africa, a country that was on the list of countries with a very high risk. However, no exception was allowed and the parents were therefore not allowed to come to Belgium. I have the following questions. How should the compelling humanitarian reason be interpreted? After all, I know that a solution was sought for this particular situation. Can one object to such a decision by a consulate or diplomatic post?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u2	Mrs Platteau, there are indeed still a number of travel restrictions. As long as the covid pandemic is not under control worldwide, it remains important, especially in order to protect us from dangerous variants. There are indeed exceptions where necessary. A distinction is made according to whether the traveller comes from a high or very high risk area. There is therefore a difference between third countries which are considered as red zones, from which non-essential travel is not permitted, and countries which were classified as very high-risk zones, with an overall travel ban because there is a dangerous variant. The rules for a visit are different in the two categories, which makes it possible for a red country to be allowed to attend, for example, a funeral and not for countries in the second case. For persons coming from a very high risk area, Article 21 (2) of the Ministerial Decree states that a certificate of compelling humanitarian reason is required, issued by the Belgian diplomatic or consular post and approved by the Foreign Affairs Office. For travellers coming from an ordinary red zone, the rules are less strict. Annex 3 to the MB states that travel is permitted for humanitarian reasons. A humanitarian reason may be assessed differently according to the country where the traveller is located. In both cases a visit to a palliative person is allowed for close relatives provided the necessary supporting documents are provided. However, since August there have been no countries in the second category, which means that the stricter entry ban is no longer applicable at the moment. As I said in committee, I had already given a positive travel advice on the specific case you mentioned in June. According to my information, that visit would have taken place. In general, if we do not agree with the decision of the consulate, we can contact the Foreign Office. These are special times, but I am pleased that we have been able to take measures since August, allowing people who have to attend a funeral to move around.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u3	It is true that Mrs Willaert asked this question in July. I myself had addressed my question to Minister Verlinden because she concerned a ministerial decision of hers. The question then was whether a palliative person could be visited. The answer was no. On the next question, a few weeks later, whether that person's funeral could be attended, the answer turned out to be yes. That strange situation was difficult to explain, but now you have been able to give us some clarification. It is also good to know that people can always turn to the Foreign Affairs Department if they do not agree with the decision of a consulate. Thank you very much for explaining this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, as you know, Jabbeke is opposed to the concrete plans to establish a handling centre for illegal immigrants and transmigrants there. This should be done for the rapid administrative handling of the many illegals arrested on our Flemish coast. According to Federal Minister of Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne, such a centre is needed in West Flanders, and there is also the legal expertise to deal with the files more quickly. My first question is therefore whether the Secretary of State can confirm that a location is being sought for a treatment centre in West Flanders? Your partymate Hendrik Bogaert said on WTV Focus, the Westflemish regional television: "They have contacted me about this. First it was about a closed shelter, now it's something else, a more open center, which I suspected." And now it comes: "We have absolutely no confidence in being able to organise it properly for Jabbeke." Do you agree that a treatment centre should primarily be a closed centre, and if not, why? As you know, both in Zeebrugge along the E40 and on the West Coast, there is an increasing influx of illegal immigrants and transmigrants. Two sites are specifically eligible for this so-called illegal centre: the former barracks of civil protection in Jabbeke and the buildings of the federal police between highways A10 and E40. Can the Secretary of State confirm and explain which locations are currently being viewed in West Flanders for the establishment of a processing centre? And finally, the Secretary of State agrees with the future mayor of Jabbeke, Hendrik Bogaert, that Jabbeke is not an appropriate location for an open handling centre for illegal immigrants, and if not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u5	Thank you for your question, which I am trying to correctly interpret, depending on what we mean by a handling centre. It would be remarkable if the municipality of Jabbeke were to oppose concrete plans by the federal government to establish a settlement centre for illegal residents and transmigrants in the municipality, because I do not know about such concrete plans. The question is what this is about. By processing centre, regardless of what that term should mean, I think you mean an administrative centre intended for the administrative and police follow-up of transit migrants who are being intercepted by the police. Such an administrative centre, which does not exist in Belgium today, would then fall within the competence of Mrs Verlinden. The question arises as to whether such an administrative centre is desirable. Either we are talking about a different kind of center, an open reception centre or an orientation center for transit migrants. However, there are no plans to create such a thing either in Jabbeke or anywhere else, and there too one may wonder how desirable such a thing is. However, where there are plans for the creation of new closed centres for the detention of persons in illegal residence, within the framework of their return. That is the closed center that exists, in Bruges, and where there are, of course, plans about it. These plans take shape in the integrated infrastructure plan Return. It looks at the most appropriate locations for such closed centres, nor does it intend to have separate closed centres for transit migrants. When transit migrants are eligible for forced removal and are detained as part of it, they, like other people in illegal residence, are detained in a closed centre of the Foreign Affairs Office. Of course, there must always be a possibility of returning. There is therefore no specific distinction or centre for transit migrants, unlike for others. So based on that, the question is what do you mean? I suspect the first, and if it's the first or the second, then I've been clear. As far as the third is concerned, I can also be very clear and concrete in this respect, in particular that there is an effective need for this and that there are plans to work it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. You bounce a number of questions back to me, but I can't answer them, of course. I normally ask questions here as a Member of Parliament. Why am I asking you these questions? Minister Van Quickenborne has come up with a number of roaring statements in the West Flemish press, to which your fellow party colleague Hendrik Bogaert has responded very strongly and strongly. That is why I am asking you a number of questions here. What's going on out there? What did Van Quickenborne announce? What does Henry Bogaert oppose? You obviously don't know it yourself, you obviously aren't aware either, since you're beginning to ask me questions. Let me be quite clear that the municipality of Jabbeke is, of course, right in its reply by saying that those illegals and transmigrants............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The upcoming mayor of Jabbeke, Hendrik Bogaert, literally said on West-Flemish regional television, and I quote him: 'We have absolutely no confidence in being able to organise this for Jabbeke in that way or in a good way'. I think this is a strong statement. If your partymates have no faith in it, who are we as Flemish Interest to ultimately have faith in it? We, as Flemish Interest, are certainly not going to join in the plans presented by Van Quickenborne and fought by Bogaert. Jabbeke may not be able to count on the support of CD&V and this government, but certainly on the support of Flemish Interest. We, too, will fight by all means against any form of open treatment centres for illegal immigrants in West Flanders. The Flemish Interest wants very clearly that the illegals who are present in West Flanders are actively tracked down, arrested and detained in closed centres. For the Flemish Interest there must therefore be a closed centre in West Flanders, from which all these illegal immigrants are effectively expelled. That is our position, on which we are very clear. I hope you can shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, in July 2021 a report was published by Caritas International, Vlaanderenwerk Vlaanderen, 11.11.11 and CIRÉ on resettlement. The report calculates what would be a fair solidarity contribution for Belgium in relation to international resettlement needs. The authors of the report specifically ask, spread over a three-year growth path, to resettle 8,800 people, starting with 2,000 people next year. In addition to the quantity of resettlement, it is also argued to increase the quality of the Belgian resettlement programme by investing more in guidance and sustainable integration. Finally, they call for a new legal framework for resettlement to be included in the new migration code. I do not have to tell you that resettlement is very topical in the light of what is happening in Afghanistan and the refugees currently present in neighbouring countries in refugee camps, for which Europe is also asking Belgium to make an effort to resettle them. On the basis of the report, I have three specific questions. Did your cabinet take note of the report? If yes, what policy conclusions do you draw from the report? Do you intend to work with a resettlement quota? In what way do you want to increase the quality of the Belgian resettlement programme? Thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, I have indeed taken note of the report. Of course, the need for resettlement is not new. In recent years, the UNHCR's recommendation has always been followed. Of course, Belgium, like all other countries in the world, must take responsibility for this. In recent years, Belgium has often recognised its responsibility, but it has not always been the case in actions. In recent years, we have incorporated a commitment, certainly in the coalition agreement, which is also clearly stated in that agreement. The committee asks for annual quotas of persons who will resettle Belgium. In this respect, it is important to move towards operational, above all, realistic commitments, which we can and must fulfil. This is important in contrast to saying a lot and doing very little in the end. As of 2022, therefore, there should also be room for further expansion of the community sponsorship programme, so that re-established persons should not always be included in the regular reception of Fedasil. This entails the risk that, if there are too few places due to an asylum influx or a flood or a pandemic causing buffering or quarantine places to be created everywhere, resettlement should also be put on hold. In addition, the migration code also provides a legal framework for the resettlement programme. Of course, in an ideal world with a new migration pact, in which there is control of those entering and leaving, a very ambitious programme can be drawn up in each country, so that there is much more control and everyone can assume their responsibilities in a spirit of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you that our policy must not be kept to words, but that we also need action. Community sponsorship is an interesting piste that we need to explore further in order to quickly integrate and take on the people who come here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, you were able to read like us, in a recent Amnesty International report, the list of serious human rights violations committed by the Syrian government against returning refugees. Rape, other forms of sexual violence, arbitrary arrest, torture or ill-treatment are mentioned. In short, Syrian refugee populations are still at serious risk today. In this context, my questions are as follows. Have you been able to read this Amnesty International report? What is Belgium's attitude towards Syrian refugees? Are you considering returning home? Is an assessment of the situation carried out by CGRA? If so, does it take into account the serious facts described in this report? How is this reflected in the decisions taken? Finally, with regard to your colleagues from Denmark and Sweden who are still calling for Syrians to be sent home, do you intend to encourage them to re-evaluate their position and to opt for a more humane and cautious view in the light of a state that clearly does not respect the human rights of its fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, Syrians who voluntarily or otherwise return to their country of origin face a real risk of torture and rape. Amnesty International has gathered evidence of this in 66 files back to the summer of 2017. These include 13 children and 5 dead, while 17 are still missing. A third of the offences take place in Damascus, a so-called safe zone. Those are just the cases reported and they represent only a fraction of the actual number. More than a third of the victims were directly prosecuted for their former refugee status. Flights are treated as terrorism or treason, which is severely punished. Another reason for the brutality of the Syrian authorities is the fact that a victim comes from a region with a lot of opposition to the Syrian regime. These facts raise questions about the Belgian and European return policy. Not only is there a major humanitarian problem in Syria, the return of refugees at risk of persecution is contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The situation for Syrian returners appears to be very dangerous and risky. Has the assessment by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless been amended on the basis of that information? If not, how do you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u12	Thank you, colleagues. As you know, the assessment of the risk of persecution or the real risk of serious harm, as defined by the refugee and subsidiary protection, falls within the competence of independent bodies, in particular the CGRA, and in the case of appeal, the Foreign Litigation Board. It is not for me to ask the CGRA to justify itself with respect to the policy pursued. I do not think that would be the best thing to do for the political world. In any case, I can say that the CGRA is closely following developments in all countries, including Syria. CGRA takes into account as many sources as possible. It can therefore be considered that Amnesty International's report is known and taken into account. The CGRA evaluates each situation very thoroughly and on an individual basis. It also appears that the CGRA does not consider that there is a general justification for the termination of subsidiary protection status because of developments in that country of origin. It is therefore primarily up to the European Commission to ensure that compliance with the European treaties, including the principle of non-refoulement, is respected by all Member States. The European External Action Service (EEAS) also makes its own analyses of the situation in third countries. So I have not been contacted directly on this matter by my Danish or Swedish colleagues, but I assume that in the European Union the European authorities, in this case the European Commission, are doing the necessary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, if I can hear you correctly, we are not sending Syrians back to their country today? That is the question: is it referred back to Syria in the light of the current situation? I did not understand your answer and am not sure of the absence of removals to Syria. That's what worries me the most today. Yesterday, on behalf of the government, Minister Kitir released EUR 8 million for humanitarian aid in Syria, the motivation being that, in the absence of a solution to the civil war, we must guarantee such aid. In the same vein, it seems to me that in this case we must protect the Syrians who are in danger if they return to their country. I sincerely wish to receive the certainty that we are protecting them and that we are maintaining, no matter what, the non-refoulement of Syrians currently present on our territory until we know the situation in their country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I repeat that the return of refugees at risk of persecution is contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That's effective what's happening here. This is about cases of rape and torture on return, and I have not heard it clearly from you, Mr Secretary of State. Are people being sent back or not? I'm very curious about that. If that is the case in the meantime, it is with all the risks it entails, and that is unacceptable. As long as we are not sure of a safe return of Syrians, we must suspend this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u15	There's a reason I'm referring to the CVGS. That is not because it is about Syria or another country, but it is because it is that authority that decides whether someone is entitled to international or subsidiary protection or whether someone can be sent back or not. When the question is: are we not going to send anyone back and put the non-refoulement principle next to us? Of course not, and that doesn't just apply to Syria. The non-refoulement principle applies not only to Syria and not only to Syria and Jordan, but also not only to Syria, Jordan and Somalia, and so on. I can list all the countries of the world. There is a principle that is being applied. We return to a discussion we had a while ago about another country, but the principle is always that the CVGS judges in complete independence on every file. Always. Each person shall consider the eligibility for the status of recognised refugee or subsidiary protection. Even in the event that this is not granted and in the event that that person could possibly be returned, the DVZ shall carry out a check of Article 3 of the ECHR. Always. So, refer to a particular country and mention that we do not do that for this country, that is not taking our working methods into account. So I can give an explanation for each individual country, but it always comes down to the same thing. Is there a specific policy for a specific country? No. Are we sending people back and not taking the non-refoulement principle into account? Of course not. Of course, we always take that into account. So I am glad that I get that question and can clarify it. If that can reassure people, please. Yes, Belgium respects Article 3 of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, in April I asked you a question on the state of play of the announced relocation of 150 people from the Greek refugee camp Moria. You indicated that it was difficult and also referred to cumbersome bureaucratic procedures and the slow response of the Greek authorities to match people with the Belgian selection criteria. That's why I'm asking you a few questions. Can you give an overview of the status of the relocations? How many people have been able to be taken care of in Belgium in the meantime? How do you evaluate the cooperation with the Greek authorities? In your opinion, was there sufficient willingness on their part to allow the relocation to other Member States to take place quickly? In your reply to my question in April, you also indicated that Belgium is represented in the European Commission's Moria Task Force, which co-ordinates the construction of new reception facilities on the Greek islands. Can you tell us what feedback you receive from the Belgian participation in this task force? My final question is about the opening of the new camp on Samos, something that has also come to light. I've been there myself, and I've seen it for myself. I am very concerned about the implementation by the Greek Government of the new refugee camps: very deliberately far away from any village, without shadow, walled, with a curfew, much less accessible to NGOs wishing to provide assistance to refugees and so on. I am very concerned that the living conditions of the people there are certainly not improving and that this is also a conscious strategy of the Greek authorities. Do you share my concern and do you intend to continue to raise this at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted that you are asking the question because my frustration from the last time remained the same: 34 of the 150 people have since passed over, 43 are scheduled to transfer and 55 are being treated. The remaining 18 are waiting for a list of candidates from the Greek authorities. I would also like to say that the Greek authorities have apologized to our services for the delay in the relocation process. I can only say that the lesson I learn from the relocation from Moria is that ad hoc solutions are anything but optimal solutions, even in times of need. It is clear that it does not work optimally in the present way. Structural solutions are therefore needed to achieve much more streamlined procedures. The Task Force is chaired by the European Commission and cooperates with the Greek authorities, EU agencies, international organisations and NGOs. Belgium considers it important to include a role in this, but we are also aware of the limited role of the Member States. A reference person was appointed to receive briefings from the Commission on progress in the work. This person may transfer any questions related to the need for support and expertise. There is also close cooperation between the European Commission and the Greek authorities, with regular visits, including at the higher level. The criticism of the task force is unknown to me. At present, European efforts have already made it possible to improve the efficiency of the asylum procedure in the islands themselves, which is the most positive of all, which has systematically eliminated the delay in applying for asylum. In principle, the applicants are given a more rapid answer, which should result in a shorter stay on the islands. There is a strong commitment to EASO, the agency to ensure that a pool of people helping to speed up procedures can be used, including on the Greek islands. In any case, it is a good thing that the files are being dealt with more quickly there. Indeed, the insertion of the shelter camps is not an obvious discussion. The camps on the islands have grown organically, even between the olive groves. Greece is now trying to concentrate shelter in one place on each island. The aim is to ensure that reception camps comply with European standards, that all essential services are provided and that they are managed by a single authority. This should ensure a more efficient organisation. This presupposes that they are larger shelter camps for which one must find a suitable location and also take into account the local resistance that may exist against it. In general, the new camps will certainly be an improvement compared to the former camps. I have been on Greek islands myself, so I have seen progress, slow though. That is frustrating, but I see progress in the accelerated procedures. By centralising things, we need to be able to achieve the EU standards in principle, but we need to keep up with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for having a look at the figures of the relocation and also for saying that it has been a frustrating process. I think you are a little more optimistic than I am about the situation in the refugee camps in Greece. It is true that Belgium must continue to raise this issue and insist on EU standards. You can also see great benefits in more streamlined procedures and a more efficient asylum procedure on the Greek islands themselves. As you know, there is no reference to reception during an asylum procedure, but it would be the intention of these camps to keep people there during the registration and identification procedure and to move towards a shorter residence procedure. However, you know as well as I do that people stay there for years. Some of the people I've spoken to have been staying in a camp like this for over three years. The question is whether there will be a solution for them soon. A danger with those shorter identification procedures or shorter procedures is that things like being able to see a doctor or perform a medical assessment of the vulnerability of certain people are not happening at the moment. I have seen people there in a wheelchair, who are nevertheless in the camp and do not receive the necessary medical care. I am very pessimistic about that. I therefore believe that we, as Belgium, should continue to raise, within the task force, within the European Commission, on all possible platforms that we have, that living conditions should be at a certain level. You say that the essential services are offered, but let us not forget that NGOs in Greece are being made difficult to provide assistance to refugees. Some NGOs are criminalized because they help refugees. Access to education is also a major concern of mine. The children in the camps are basically entitled to formal education. Europe gives money so that these children can get into mainstream education, but the Greek authorities do not comply with these rules. It is appalling that children should stay there for a long time and be deprived of education. The chairman gives the signal that I have to finish, but I thought it was important to share these concerns with you in the Chambers as well. I would like to thank you very much for all the efforts you have made to relocation and bilateral contacts with the Greek authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u19	I'll try to summarize everything. I have several questions about the state of the network with medium- and long-term consequences and immediate consequences. Regarding the medium- and long-term consequences, Fedasil has thus far lost more than a thousand places in its reception network, in particular as a result of the severe floods which have particularly affected Wallonia. In this regard, Fedasil is forced to open other structures such as the centre on the site of the military base of Coxide. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the resettlement commitments and the closures of some centres all make me fearful for the future of the host network. I also hear that the arrival center is saturated. It is necessary to give breath and oxygen to the reception network. Given the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, do you have any additional seats? What is the rate of reception in our network today, whether collective or individual? It's important. How many buffer places do you intend to open? Will you seek additional resources at the budget level? We have to anticipate the winter. Do you feel that your plan and Fedasil's plan will allow you to spend this winter without running the risk that people – human beings who will be under the conditions to seek the right to receive – will find themselves on the street during this period? Concerning the center of Mouscron, it is in a terrible level of saturation. This implies that the centres are more than 100 per cent occupied. There have been incidents of violence – serious in the spirit of the mayor – in the centre of Mouscron. The residents of the district of Tuquet, the mayor and the police complain not about all the residents, but about a lack of discipline regarding some of them. Is the Fedasil centre in Mouscron experiencing more police interventions than other structures? What is the occupancy rate of the Mouscron centre? Does the Fedasil Centre have a framework of social workers commensurate with current capacity? Will you strengthen the means by taking into account the call of alarm launched by the mayor and ensure security to contain and resolve the incidents? What other projects do you propose to solve these problems? Similarly, the area of Taintignies could become a new reception centre. I understand, of course, the need to find additional places in view of the situation of the network. Today, however, there is a feeling that the information has not passed or that it has not passed the way it should have gone to the local authorities. In March, AVIQ withdrew its accreditation for management issues, internal tensions and the quality of life of residents. Since then, the site has been empty and, tomorrow, it could welcome applicants for international protection. Mr. Secretary of State, how many places are we talking about? When will it be open? With which partners and for how long? Is it a temporary centre or not? The withdrawal of the AVIQ approval obviously raises a question. If we are not in quality of life conditions for AVIQ residents, are we for international protection claimants? I understand that we cannot always anticipate contacts with local authorities. However, have you made contact with the municipality in an attempt to coordinate actions to ensure the effective integration of the target audience into this local environment? It's essential. How can we achieve a better articulation in consultation with the various authorities? Secretary of State, I still have an important question that affects my province. I am amazed to learn that today the Sol Cress Spa centre, which had an initial capacity of 200 people, is finally occupied today by 450 people, or 250 additional people. This was done without consultation with local authorities or information. This is particularly worrying. Fedasil explains this increase by a saturation of the network. I understand this saturation, but the local authorities must be informed. This has implications for local life, for schools, for the service of the population, for police services, for the integration of the centre into the locality. For my part, I really believe that when we double a capacity, we cannot dispense with genuine consultation with the communal authorities. Mr Secretary of State, what are the reasons for this occupancy rate? Do other sites have the same situation? What measures are being taken to maintain quality reception? We are talking about a private partner for whom we have not always had a positive response. I am therefore very concerned. What are we doing to maintain the welcome? Has staff been strengthened? Has the quality level, the quality standards set by Fedasil been met when the centre's capacity was suddenly doubled? It is essential to answer these questions and to prepare a plan to return to the capacities initially agreed with the communal authority and, failing that, to engage in genuine consultation in order to restore dialogue and serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u20	At the end of last week, a remarkable e-mail was sent from Fedasil to Belgian real estate agents. Fedasil states that they are urgently looking for: "buildings suitable for the housing of persons. Ideally, these buildings are in good condition, available in the short term, for the rental period of at least one year or longer, under market rent conditions." I do ask myself some questions about this: are these kinds of e-mails often sent? If not, what reason do you give for this exceptional urgency? To what extent do the floods in Wallonia and the crisis situation in Afghanistan still play a role in this? How many places do you want to increase this reception capacity, and how many places do you want to put in front? Finally, how many people affected by the two-month floods are still being received in the asylum centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u21	Mr. Secretary of State, you yourself explained that 1,000 places had been lost due to buildings damaged as a result of the floods and that other places had been reserved for the victims. Moreover, Belgium has already welcomed 160 people exfilted from Afghanistan into its Fedasil network. Mr Secretary of State, what are the current avenues for avoiding network saturation? How do you plan to defuse local opposition to the opening of new places? The cost of a Fedasil centre to a municipality is known, and is the allocation well allocated to related services? Are you thinking of using private companies to provide these new emergency places? Have you used the municipalities for new places in ILA?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I have been predicting for several weeks that your asylum policy is going to fail. The asylum crisis is de facto there. You're looking for buffer spaces now. There are, of course, circumstances that you can always invoke and which I also respect. I understand, of course, the water pollution and the number of places that have disappeared as a result. There is the situation in Afghanistan, which suddenly became particularly acute in August and requires places for whatever, even though we will soon be discussing who needed to be repatriated. The number of asylum applications is increasing enormously. So we have a kind of asylum crisis, a crisis in reception, I can say: very high capacity utilisation, virtually no return, many requests and long waiting lists. How do you intend to contain this crisis? How many buffer spaces and additional shelters are you planning to open? You have also launched a call to local authorities to open LOI sites. I had tabled a written question on this subject and the result was very poor at the time. Has that changed in the meantime, do you have more positive answers from local authorities? How many LOI places can you open? Finally, I have one more call. You have made a point on several occasions that you want better consultation with local authorities when opening up new asylum centres, because you believe that this has been very bad in the past. I now hear from Mr Rigot that you have more than doubled the capacity of a centre in Spa and that there was no consultation with the local government. In Mouscron there are a lot of problems with public order. I've heard the mayor of Koksijde who doesn't quite agree with that opening. I have also heard the mayor of Machelen who is very concerned after having received an e-mail from the Government of the Buildings saying that the plans made there cannot continue, because at Fedasil's request the option is being considered to possibly turn it into an asylum centre. So you promise to do so much better than in the past in consultation with the mayors, but in practice this does not always appear to be the case, and it turns out to be a lot of resentment. So my question is very simple: how are you going to deal with this new asylum crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u23	At the beginning of September, the mayor of Koksijde expressed his concern about the reopening of the asylum centre in his municipality and about the lack of communication between you and your services. He also stated that of those 300 places, at least 30 unaccompanied minor refugees (NBMV) would be taken care of in that centre. He is also rightly concerned about the degree of vaccination of asylum seekers. This center serves as buffer capacity. The mayor may wish to close this centre at the end of the year, so I have some questions. What is the status of this asylum centre? When will it be reopened? How many asylum seekers will be received here? How much NBMV? Do they not wish to be heard separately? How long will this center remain open? When will it be closed? Will this centre continue to act as buffer capacity? And finally, what about the vaccination of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u24	Since the start of covid pandemic, you know that the situation is not evident to anyone, nor to the employees of Fedasil. In the various reception centres in our country strict but necessary health measures apply and there are also places to isolate infected persons. Thanks to the good work of the staff in the various shelters, we find that for the time being we are holding on to wood - despite the pandemic and in situations where many people live together, we have managed to manage the major risks associated with the pandemic in shelters. The impact of this is that there is an isolation capacity of a total of 1,400 places, which must be provided throughout the reception network if there is an outbreak or if someone needs to be quarantined. Although the occupation has remained somewhat stable over the past year, it has never fallen dramatically. In the summer we were faced with increased pressure on the reception network. We are also talking about the floods, the flood that has led to a drop of more than 1,200 buffers and shelters. These are places that are not available because of the floods, and can no longer be used temporarily, and also places used by local authorities to temporarily house Walloon citizens whose homes have disappeared or become totally unusable, also because of the floods. Since these last places are temporarily no longer under the control of Fedasil, I do not have any details about the number of people being taken care of here, just because they are no longer under the control of Fedasil. In addition, we are seeing an increase in the number of requests made in the registration centre and some 250 reception points are being used for the reception of Afghans in the context of the evacuation mission. We also foresee a reduction in the number of decisions for Afghans due to the CGVS' temporary decision-shoot for Afghanistan. As a result, capacity utilisation increased to 92 %. For collective reception capacity, the capacity utilisation rate is 94 % and for individual reception 90%. In July 2021, the government decided to create 5,400 buffer sites in order to cope better with fluctuations in the influx. These places will be created by Fedasil in order to anticipate the foreseeable fluctuations in the necessary reception capacity. It was therefore necessary to activate existing buffer sites, as is the case in Koksijde, where there is a buffer centre, and in Spa, where there were buffer sites, in order to identify and deploy additional capacity. As Mr Van Langenhove mentioned in his e-mail, Fedasil is constantly looking for infrastructure that can be suitable for shelters. As a result, the Agency currently has concrete slopes to review reception capacity each time, taking into account cost, infrastructure and regional distribution. These are all elements that play a part in the decision that ultimately has to be taken. One of the potential sites is in Taintignies. The capacity of the centre has not yet been established. It is estimated to be between 250 and 300 places. Since negotiations with the owner have not yet been concluded, the deadline and the operator have not yet been defined. Compliance work will be carried out in the part of the building that requires it to meet Fedasil's quality and safety standards. Fedasil and I had several contacts with the commune. The mayor received the necessary information on the implications of a Fedasil centre on the territory of the municipality. Fedasil will, however, remain in contact with the local government in order to facilitate good cooperation. In Koksijde, Fedasil has indeed activated the buffer center. That's usually where the first residents will arrive this week. Fedasil is planning a capacity of up to 300 people in the Koksijde shelter, including 32 unaccompanied minors. This target group was previously welcomed on this site. Additional specialised staff are employed to assist unaccompanied minors, such as in all reception structures accompanying such target groups. Persons evacuated from Afghanistan are currently being included elsewhere in the reception network. It remains to be seen whether persons will be transferred to Koksijde. Persons applying for international protection are, of course, subject to security screening. Furthermore, as always, Fedasil takes the necessary measures to ensure the safety of staff and residents. All asylum seekers, including minors, are intensively accompanied by Fedasil's staff. I am aware of the problem of transit migration in the coastal region. I had a chance to discuss this with the Chief Constable of the West Coast Police Department last week. However, the persons to be taken in Koksijde are persons who have already applied for international protection and are therefore seeking a residence permit in Belgium. This target group distinguishes itself from transit migrants. However, I will remain in consultation with colleagues responsible for Justice and Home Affairs in order to further address the issue of transit migration. All persons to be assigned to Koksijde and other places will be tested for covid upon arrival in Belgium. As soon as this is possible, these individuals will also be vaccinated. A precise end date for the center in Koksijde will be determined in consultation with the mayor and Defense. I am aware of the local government's plans to acquire the site in Koksijde in time. It is not the intention to hinder this. The impact of covid on quarantine sites and on the whole asylum and migration policy is one of the reasons why we should encourage asylum seekers to be vaccinated as much as possible. That's also in the personal interest of every person who gets a shot. As mentioned, the buffer capacity was also activated in Spa. The reception centre had to accommodate many additional candidates within a very short time frame. Fedasil provides temporary additional support, so that the quality of the reception is guaranteed, given the reduced activation period. The activation of these 250 buffer places requires the recruitment of additional staff in order to continue to meet the minimum standards laid down in the specifications. In order to award this contract, Fedasil evaluates that the hosting infrastructure of Sol Cress to Spa could accommodate 550 people with the necessary adaptations. The Agency shall be in constant consultation with the operator and local authorities to ensure that all provisions of the specifications are complied with at all times. I would like to make it clear that this is a centre with a buffer capacity. I do not know if it is necessary to recall this, but there is a logic behind the buffer centres, namely that we do not have 100% control of the number of people who will apply for asylum next week or next month. Therefore, we cannot always predict the number of places we will need within a month or six months, which is why we have a system with buffers that we need to be able to use when needed. So, back to normal, I will, but you have to know that buffer places must be able to be used precisely when we need them! Indeed, this avoids looking for other centres, for which a prior exchange with certain mayors is necessary before progress can be made in this area. The buffer system is, in a way, a guarantee system that we give ourselves and it is important to know exactly what it is, or else to be out of debate. In the coming period, reception places will be opened, including an observation and orientation centre for unaccompanied minors in Oudergem. This target group is particularly important. Reception centres will also be opened at other locations. There is, of course, a dynamic reception policy, which must always be provided for, knowing that virtually no Belgian reception centre is intended to last a hundred years, so to speak. So one must always have an eye for that. We are not currently planning a new public tender, we are counting on Fedasil and its structural partners such as the Red Cross to realize the places. It is not possible today to determine exactly how many reception places will open, as this obviously depends on the evolution in the coming months. We will not open more places than necessary, but the creation of 5,400 buffer spaces must ensure that we ensure against what will follow in the coming months. The current occupancy rate for the Mouscron reception centre is 92 per cent. I am aware of the current tension and demand of the mayor. Moreover, I will visit this centre very soon, as I often do, because it is essential. Tomorrow, FEDASIL and the mayor will meet to see what measures can be taken to better integrate the centre into the neighbourhood. As far as the personnel framework is concerned, there are 120.5 full-time equivalents, comprising administrative services, multi-purpose staff who provide seven days a week, social workers, a medical team, a logistics team, a technical team, of course a MENA team, facilitators – the specificity of the Moscow centre – and mediators who assist in conflict prevention and management. Taking into account the size of the centre, Fedasil has already taken special measures such as authorizing the use of a camera device inside the centre. During the summer, a private guard company came to strengthen the teams at night and on weekends. From today, between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., security officers will come and support the teams on the spot. Similarly, a security officer will be present during the weekend from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. The Mouscron Visitor Centre is the largest in the country. It is clear that, for this reason, there is strong pressure on a neighbourhood. At the moment, we need all the places, but it is not desirable to have reception centres with such capacity on a structural basis. It is therefore important to focus, as far as possible, on adequate reception on a smaller scale, for example by using some of these large reception facilities as buffer capacity. Good cooperation with local authorities is indeed very important. I will therefore keep them informed about the plans to set up a reception centre. In order to learn from the experiences of local authorities with a reception centre in their municipality, Fedasil conducted a survey of the mayors at my request. I will invite those mayors to discuss the results of the survey and to discuss the optimisation of cooperation with the federal policy level, because there is certainly still room for improvement. Politics must also be aimed at improving, in cooperation with local authorities, especially with regard to the issue raised. Following our call to the local authorities to create additional LOI places, we had to find that few local authorities are willing to do so. However, individual reception is crucial for the reception network and provides a strong link with the local community. I will certainly accept my responsibility in that regard. The public authorities have a legal obligation to provide adequate care for those entitled to do so, even in difficult circumstances, taking into account, of course, the concerns of local authorities and citizens. In addition, we must protect our asylum and reception system when it comes under pressure from improper use. I have to note that groups of people repeatedly apply for international protection after a negative decision in Belgium or another European Member State, without necessarily providing new elements. This cannot be the intention and increases the pressure on the system, which also prolongs the procedure for other applicants. Together with my services, I will focus more on the rapid handling of the significantly high number of multiple requests and the rigorous application of the Dublin rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u25	Thank you for your detailed answers. Concerning Spa, I understand that the capacity could be increased to 550 places since this is Fedasil's estimate. I think it's an information that Spa's mayor, Mrs. Sophie Delettre, will discover! I hope not, however, it seems to me, at least in view of the elements that I myself discovered a few days ago. This is important, because we were 200 places and the figure is 450 or 550! I understand that buffer places must be provided and I am the first to say that this is the right model: to keep structures easier to reactivate rather than to open and close structures on every occasion as was the case during the crisis of 2015-16. This has a huge cost in terms of quality of services and even sites that could have other purposes. However, consultation with local authorities must take place and care must be taken to ensure that the capacity chosen is locally acceptable and manageable and that the municipality is able to provide the services expected to be provided to the reception facilities. I put the emphasis on consultation in the future for the center of Spa Sol Cress. As far as the consultation on Taintignies is concerned, I have not had contact with the municipality. I have now received a response on the estimated capacity and prospects, but in order to anchor centres at a local level and to avoid the opposition of the population to the unknown, it is important to involve local authorities in the process as soon as possible. As far as Mouscron is concerned, I know like you the centre which is one of the largest centres in Belgium that offers high quality infrastructure and many measures have been taken such as the use of cameras, additional security teams for supervision. The team is of quality, the centre is very well managed. But today we are in the midst of an emotional upsurge. You're right: you have to go there to get her down. I'll be happy to accompany you when you move there if you invite me to do so. But I say: be careful! Emotions and tensions in Mouscron. A curfew desired by some towards the residents of the reception centre would be an unacceptable measure because it is stigmatizing and discriminatory! You could play the important role of fuse to avoid this ascent and cascade. Finally, I welcome your initiative to launch a survey with the aim of collecting the opinions of the mayors and local authorities who have experienced the opening of centres. It is tests and corrective measures that allow us to move forward and better understand the future in order to succeed in opening up collective or individual structures. Hat about it! That is what we need: to create dialogue. Last but not least, you said you had difficulty getting ALIs. The observation is also there. The CPAS were blurred in 2015-2016. At one point, they were all sent to walk when reception spaces were closed. They had to manage job losses, loss of income, continued rents. Today, once again gaining the confidence of CPAS is obviously not simple at the communal level where finance is what it is. We will not take risks at the local level if we are not sure that our partners, in this case the federal state and Fedasil, will not blur us again. It's up to you to play to convince CPAS. I'm sure you'll make it. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I can sympathise with the fact that you cannot give a precise and concrete figure of the most recent situation of the flood victims. However, I would have liked to have at least an estimate of those victims, because that often appears as an excuse. For the installation of the reception centres, a number of factors are cited which are used to assess them, such as cost, infrastructure and regional distribution. Unfortunately, the most important factor is not mentioned, namely whether or not the local population agrees with this planting. Unfortunately, this is never taken into account, although that is very important in a democracy. The mayor of Koksijde is very concerned about the arrival of an estimated 30 unaccompanied minors, who would be accommodated in the centre. I just heard that it was about 230 unaccompanied minors. You're shaking no. I understood that that way a moment ago. In any case, it would be a large group of unaccompanied minors, including a large proportion of Afghans. If we look at what your Austrian Christian Democrat colleague says, we will have to believe that Afghans are very difficult to integrate and that many of them approve religious and other forms of violence. So this is a very difficult group. You may say that specialised staff will be provided to accompany them. However, I have serious doubts as to whether this will be sufficient in that case. You also indicate that you are not yet able to determine how many reception places you want in the long term. It would be nice if it were the ambition to reduce them in the long term. That would be a good guide. I hope to hear that a little more often. One last point you mentioned is the problem of multiple applications, which is essentially a form of legal abuse. There is a lot of talk about this, but too little work has been done on it. What you can do later is to take your phone and call a number of fellow politicians and party leaders from the coalition partners in your government to ask them to stop firing asylum seekers to abuse that right, so that they can stay in our country for longer. That would be a good start.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u27	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for this very complex response, which shows that we must maintain our course of action by respecting our international obligations in terms of hospitality, by not losing sight of the reality of the ground and by exercising our duty of information. It is recalled in particular by the European Convention on Human Rights and many international texts. It is essential to provide good information for the inhabitants. I would also like to refer to the actions of many residents of Fedasil centres who, in the aftermath of the floods, left their centres to help people. This is particularly the case of the residents of the Spa centre, who had also stood out by making masks at the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19. They stand out again to help the Belgian population. We're saying too little. We could talk a lot about the center of Mouscron. It is representative of an old model: that of megastructures. As you said, we need to get out of this model and back to more human-sized structures. Attention should also be paid to the proportional comparison of figures. I am not sure that the number of incidents in Mouscron is much higher than in other smaller centres. It is also necessary to libel or disaggregate these figures in view of the reality of the centre, which is, moreover, incorporated in a residential area, with all the difficulties involved. The issue of staffing is important. How does a municipality use its endowments? As a federal entity, do we or do you have a say in this? Is staffing well used to improve the relationship between residents, police and centre residents? These are interesting questions for a future committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, I understand why so few local authorities are signing up to your calls to open new local reception initiatives. They just don't believe it anymore, after so many years of crisis it's over, there's no goodwill anymore. In many municipalities, the locals have had enough. The people no longer believe that you are working on a real structural solution. It keeps mopping with the tap open. You have not mentioned any figures, but I still have the figures for a previous oral question: 7 local authorities have signed up for 26 places. That's embarrassing. Again you come up with great promises, such as faster handling and multiple requests. How will you do that? Anyone can apply for asylum and one can even apply twenty times if one wants. You're talking about a faster treatment, but the Afghans will get shelter again. A tenth application from an Afghan will now be admissible, because of the changed situation, and so you will have to provide shelter. You also say that you will monitor the Dublin rules more closely. It concerns 290 Dublin returns, but what will you do? There is no European agreement on that arrangement for those 18 months. As a result, you remain ultimately responsible and you will still have to deal with those files. You are sending a letter to Greece to send people back there, because the operation of the Dublin agreements is simply flat in Greece. I've been through all that. You promise again now. There won't be any of it in the house; You say that the floods have put 1,200 places at risk and put you in trouble. At present, however, there are 27,000 reception places, so the number that has been compromised is less than 5%, less than one in twenty. You say that because of that problem you now suddenly need 5,400 buffer places. Even if I add to the 1,200 problem areas the 1,400 places isolation capacity, I have not yet reached the number of buffer places you mention. It is a structural problem. The real problem, not mentioned in your press releases, is that there are almost 3,000 asylum applications per month. So you have a lot of capacity problems, as you have to give bed, bath and bread to all those applicants. That's the essence. The Greens say that international obligations must be respected, which I understand. My advice is that you should temporarily put a stop to the settlement, as you temporarily have no room. You should start with effective evacuation campaigns. Finally, I have one more point to make. In Spa, the flood hit hard last summer. However, the asylum centre in Spa must extend from 200 to 550 places, if I understand correctly. Although you replied in French, I listened very carefully. In response to an earlier question I learned that some Afghans were accidentally housed in Spa and that this was not the intention. This was done through Defense and there was indeed consultation with the mayor of Spa, who was furious about the course of events. Now, however, the asylum centre in Spa goes from 200 to 550 places, more than a doubling in an area so heavily affected by water pollution. Then how do you intend to maintain the public's support? I wonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u29	Thank you for your answers. If I've heard you correctly, the center will open next week. Once the center is opened, I don't think it will be closed back. The evolution is moving towards more asylum applications. I hear you say that out of the 300 people who are going to settle in Koksijde there are 230 unaccompanied minors. That's a figure too high for a center. I don't know what kind of facilities you're planning for these minors. They are asking for special precautions. I also asked whether they would be kept separately or not. I didn't get an answer to that. About the vaccination, you say that you are not planning to vaccinate, which is a danger to the population. A few days ago, we had an outbreak in a center in Scherpenheuvel. That question has also remained unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u30	I understand why colleagues have heard it badly. I said 32 first. Fedasil provides the Koksijde reception centre with a capacity of up to 300 persons, including 32 unaccompanied minors. I've slipped and see 232, which makes you so noted and not the 32 that I meant. I'd like to give you this clarification before any alarms go off where it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u31	That is noted in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, one of the most essential elements to overcome an asylum crisis is to ensure that there are sufficient staff in the competent services. You have the necessary budgets to provide for this. We are all looking forward to strengthening these services. What's the status? How many people have been recruited? Does Selor find enough candidates? When do you think there will be a difference on the premises? Can you divide between the Foreign Affairs Office and the Asylum Service and the CGVS on the one hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u33	I am glad that you are asking this question because one might effectively think that it is not easy to find enough people who want to work at Asylum & Migration in times of labour shortages. The opposite is true, however. A lot of people have shown their enthusiasm by participating in Selor's selection tests to recruit some 700 candidates. On 23 April 2021, the Council of Ministers gave the green light for the recruitment of 700 new employees. This is the largest recruitment campaign in years, for which reinforcement was provided by Selor and the Personnel and Organisation Staff Department within the FPS Home Affairs. The collaboration with Selor is going very well. The recruitment campaign is so unseen that even on Saturdays time windows are reserved to carry out computer tests, given Selor's limited capacity and also to be able to produce the necessary results quickly. From the outset, we knew that there would be a bottleneck problem with the number of certified Presidents available to the asylum and migration services to take the oral tests. Here too, we were able to count on Selor's support for more staff from the services to follow the training pathway. The new certified presidents will be available for oral trials from October onwards. In general, therefore, the recruitment campaign is proceeding very smoothly, despite the tight labour market and ongoing recruitment from other public services, which nevertheless represent a certain amount of competition. The recruitment procedure for return escorts is over. Before that, there were 64 laureates. For the vacancy for migration and protection officers, the procedure will be completed in October. Depending on the number of candidates that will succeed for the last oral trial, we will be able to fill all vacancies at once or not. The procedures for security officer, lawyer, group counselor, psychological consultant, interviewer and social assistant are still ongoing. As I always say in a question on this subject, I invite everyone to check on the website www.werkenbejaselenmigration.be which vacancies are still open for the time being, but you should be aware that there is a lot of interest for this. For a number of vacancies we will be able to fill all places in one wave very unexpectedly, for a number of other positions we will have to organise a second recruitment round. In general, we can fill out the French-language vacancies more easily than the Dutch-speaking ones. It runs smoothly for both, but even more smoothly for the French-speaking ones. Both the services and myself are therefore pleased that there is so much enthusiasm for a better asylum and migration policy. We have just talked about speeding up procedures and identifying people who abuse the system more quickly. In order to achieve this, we also need staff. I am very pleased that we are fully engaged in this. In the coming days, a next recruitment wave will start in which we will look for 158 level C profiles for various functions. Think of the drivers for the closed centers and safety staff. From that moment on, the search for all profiles for which we need a significant number of candidates has started. Of course we also recruit via the general reserve of Selor, as soon as a laureate list is available. Candidates should, however, take an additional test before they can be selected. Finally, we recruit IT profiles, nurses and doctors through Selor's general selection. We are counting on the campaign that Selor will launch in the autumn. For migration services, it is a limited but essential number of people. Anyone who has already applied or is on the list of laureates, I congratulate you. I am very pleased that many people want to strengthen our migration services. Despite the tight labour market, I notice that there is a great deal of interest. That is good, because we will certainly be able to use the new staff to make our services even more performant. In this way, we will also be able to give our services, which are quite rightly expected, the staff they have been asking for for a long time to carry out the ambitions that politics often puts in front of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, this is indeed an immense recruitment operation. I am pleased that many candidates have so far applied and that cooperation with Selor and the P&D department of the FPS Home Affairs is going well. I wish you and all the candidates every success in this important recruitment campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, both in the government agreement and in your policy paper, it was stated that the accelerated implementation of the master plan for closed return centres would be pursued. That plan provided for increased capacity in those centres, up to some 1,150 places by the end of 2020, early 2021. Now, at the end of 2021, we are still miles away from what was announced more than four years ago. At the beginning of December last year, Mr Mathieu Michel, the Secretary of State for Buildings, stated that two of the return centres announced would not arrive before the end of this term of office. When I questioned you about this at the beginning of June, you stated that you had the ambition to build these centres faster and that you would work on it over the next few months. In the meantime, we've been four months. What new initiatives have you taken in the meantime to speed up the construction of the two return centres mentioned above? What concrete decisions have already been taken in this respect? I'd like to get an update. Can you assure us that the previously promised expansion of capacity in the closed return centres will take place this term of office? If so, how many places and within what time limit? Are you prepared to respond to our proposal to work on a temporary centre for forced return, for example by the deployment or rental of one or more prison boats or by using vacant military sites or vacant former government barracks, pending the implementation of the master plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u36	In recent months, the optimisation of the previously approved master plan has indeed been pursued. A new need calculation was made for this and all the infrastructure needs for the new upcoming return policy, which I have already explained in committee, were identified. This has led to an integrated return infrastructure plan, which is part of the multi-annual investment plan of the Government of the Buildings. That investment plan is therefore decided in the government's bosom, and I will not be able to give you more information about that plan until after these talks. You referred to prison boats, but if I am not mistaken, you have already suggested this and I have already had to tell you that the piste has already been investigated by the previous government and was then removed. In any case, I am open to ideas that can enable us to increase our capacity in the closed centres in the short term, but prison boats proved to be virtually unfeasible. So we will have to go other ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, return policy is an important part of government policy for us, preferably on a voluntary basis, but otherwise forced. In the story of forced return, closed centers are crucial. The master plan is not new; that was already started at the time of the Michael I government in 2015. Mr Francken knows the file very well. In the meantime, we are 6 years later and you still can't imagine any realization. I am convinced that building permits or realistic budgets have not been taken into account when drawing up the plan. I understand from your reply that the funds entered in the budget for the construction of the closed centres are insufficient. We must therefore wait for your financial space in the budgetary negotiations. I fear that the buildings will not be there before 2023, given the length of time involved in handling the tender dossiers. That is the reality, and that is a pity, but it could have happened earlier in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, you say you have identified the needs, but they have been ready and clear for many years, as I said in my previous question. Freddy Roosemont of the Foreign Office argued long ago for a doubling of capacity. The identification of needs should therefore not have taken so much time. You say that we will discuss it after the discussion, but when will this discussion be on the agenda? I hope that we will not have to wait months for that to happen again. In discussing the coalition agreement in that large European Parliament, I have repeatedly asked you how you would make the promised returns work. If you do not make a link between development aid and a country's willingness to take back to its citizens, if you no longer ensure that families are trapped in adapted return units, if you reject residential entries in the event of illegality, in short, if you make return so much more difficult, how will you increase return rates? That's what my question was then. Mr Verherstraeten turned around a bit, like many others, but in the end Mr Lachaert was right with the promise that the government would do so thanks to the construction of more closed return centres. Finally, there was someone who answered. However, what do we see now, so much time later? That none of it comes into the house. Not only now, but all of this legislature is not being realized. These increased returns, Mr Mahdi, will probably not be there. Maybe we should withdraw that promise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55020655C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, I have also tabled a number of written questions, and I hope that I will soon be able to expect an answer to them. I have expressed many reservations about the evacuation operation from Afghanistan over the last few weeks and made a number of proposals. I would like to come back to that. My first question is very specific: will there be a humanitarian visa programme for Afghans? By this I mean for relatives of rescued Afghans and relatives of Belgians who also have Afghan nationality. Is there going to be a humanitarian visa program for these people, is there going to be an air bridge? In the Netherlands there are already 22,790 people on that list. What's that like in Belgium? Is that centralized? Is that with you? I suppose so. How many people are on the list and what's gonna happen to it? My second question concerns the 480 names on the Belgian evacuation lists that Mrs Wilmès communicated yesterday from New York. She said there are 480 people left to evacuate. The largest category are 260 Belgians and their entitled spouses or children. In addition, there are 63 different profiles, especially from civil society, such as artists, people at particular risk. Finally, there are 45 people who have worked for the Belgians, including interpreters, fixers and their families, and 49 people with a residence permit in Belgium. With the latter, my question is what kind of residence permit is it for in Belgium? Is it about recognized refugees? You know I'm a little sensitive to that. Who are the 49 people on that list? I also wonder who is now on that humanitarian visa list of Afghan family members with long-term right of residence in Belgium who have been left behind. I would like a concrete answer to that. My second point concerns the fight against inter-European asylum migration flows to Belgium of Afghans evacuated by other European Member States from Afghanistan. I wonder how, as I have heard, there are Afghans who have been evacuated through France to apply for asylum in Belgium? I don't understand that, it shouldn't be. Is that true? If so, who is that about? Where were the fingerprints for Eurodac taken? Were they not taken when they entered the airport, be it Melsbroek, Zaventem, Paris, Madrid or anywhere else? I'd like to make that clear. Are these people being screened, too? People coming from France cannot be expected to apply for asylum here. That is actually what I was accused of in the Kucam affair, namely that people were passing through. People were saved, but traveled through, so they couldn't see who did it anymore. I understand that people who have arrived in another country are travelling to Belgium and are suddenly applying for asylum. I think that's quite a punishment. How is that possible? That is not clear to me at all. If Belgians are evacuated by the Dutch, then there is no problem. It's about Belgians. It is logical that they come back to Belgium, but people who apply for asylum should do so in the first country of entry? Is Dublin suspended? What exactly is the point of that? Have there been any Dublin refusals in that context? If so, how many? A third point concerns the safety circle for all Afghans. During the topical debate, we asked questions about this, but we did not really receive answers. Have people been stopped by those screenings, and what happened to those people? Were these people stopped here? What is one doing with someone who is being negatively screened and is here in the meantime? Or have people in Islamabad been stopped because of a negative screening? I would like more clarification, which is a lot of pertinent questions on which, in my view, there is still insufficient clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u41	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to remind you of who we are talking about. There will be a lot of discussion about procedures in the issues, but we will still talk about women who, contrary to what the Taliban had promised, risk their lives by staying there, LGBT people whose lives are also in danger in a totalitarian regime like that of the Taliban. We are talking about minorities like the Hazara who have no prospects for the future in this country. First of all, I would like to return to Operation Red Kite and sincerely congratulate all the services, be it the Defence, your services and others, which have made it possible to exfil hundreds of people in a very short time. The work has been remarkable. That should be emphasized. Unfortunately, there are still people on the scene, Afghans and Afghans, Belgians who were unable to board this Red Kite operation. There has been much debate over the past few weeks about the fact that some people had no right to be there, the need to repatriate them or not. I hope we're not going to tell a person, whatever his mistakes and mistakes, like a refugee who went to see his sick mother, that it's a shame, that we wish him good luck with the Taliban. There are exceptions to not being able to return to his country. It's a reality: some people are still stuck there. We'll have to find a solution. What are the solutions for your skills? In the exceptional circumstances, you mentioned the possibility of filing applications for family reunification from Belgium. This is an excellent idea that corresponds to an example of a just and humane policy. Furthermore, since our current debate in committee, have discussions been held at European level in order to maintain European continuity and coherence in the reception of Afghan refugees? Does the list of people to evacuate continue to grow? I am thinking of activists for the rights of women and LGBT people. Are persons applying for family reunification or who have already received a favourable response on this list? How many humanitarian visas have been issued for these people since August? I would really like clarification on the composition of this list of 450 people. I understand that she must remain secret for their safety, but if we could get to know the great elements. Are there any family reunification candidates or not at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, in the light of recent developments in Afghanistan, the European Commission has announced that a situation such as that in 2015 should not be repeated, and that some funds have been provided for reception in its own region, but there is more. For example, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, stated that Europe has a "moral duty to provide shelter to all those in need of protection." EU Commissioner for Asylum and Migration Ylva Johansson also made a similar appeal. Of course, how many of the 38 million Afghans are supposed to be taken up in this way was not mentioned. Several countries, including Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Austria, rightly rejected this call and opposed the voluntary inclusion of even more Afghans in resettlement programmes or so-called humanitarian migration corridors. The Austrian Minister for the Interior and Christian Democrat Karl Nehammer clearly stated that the European Commission is constantly sending the wrong message and called the transfer of thousands and thousands of Afghans to Europe very short-sighted and ideologically misleading policy, which could be dangerous for Europe. As an agreement proved unfeasible, reception in Europe remains an option, but each country decides on resettlement. In this context, you stated that each country can offer specific protection and that Belgium does so. If we are well informed, the European Commission expects each Member State to report this month how many resettlement places are being made available, not just for Afghans, but in general. I have the following questions. Will Belgium provide additional places for resettlement and/or humanitarian visa programmes for Afghans? If so, how many? My second question concerns the Turkey deal and the confusion about the Belgian position on it. Are you still in favour of the extension of the EU-Turkey deal to Afghanistan that you have advocated before? It seems that Prime Minister De Croo had a different view on this. What is the Belgian Government's position? Has an initiative already been taken at European level in this area? Finally, I have also tabled a question on security screening. It is a bit bizarre that we asked specific questions about this in the previous sitting and that we were assured that a quadruple security screening had taken place, but that it remained silent when we asked for the result of that screening. I hope that we will be able to clarify this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u43	Mr Van Langenhove, I would like to explain the questions about the evacuation from Afghanistan and future plans. As Mr Moutquin has rightly pointed out, it was an operation in which we cannot stress enough what it meant, especially for the category of people I had to and should have mercy on as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. It is about women who have fought for women's rights in Afghanistan for years, for example the NGO Mothers for Peace who has an organisation working there. Think of the many journalists who work there and make a great deal of effort to try to give freedom of the press a chance, which is not evident in Afghanistan. These people also have a special need for protection. Think of human rights organisations on the ground. There is also a target group in Mr Dedonder's sector, but it is also important: people who have participated with our soldiers on the ground, such as interpreters or fixers, who have put their lives on the line for years, because they have fought on our side for a Afghanistan that has not finally become what we had hoped for. In this respect, I am very proud that we have been able to organise this mission, together with many European colleagues, and have worked well for it. With regard to the evacuees, in accordance with the decision of the Kern of 16 August, alongside the Belgians and their families, Afghans were evacuated by Belgium for humanitarian reasons. In addition to Afghans who have worked for our military or consular services in Afghanistan, the following categories of people are involved: Afghans who have worked for international, European or national organisations (e.g. NATO) or NGOs (e.g. Moeders voor Vrede); Afghans who are fighting for human rights and women's rights and who are at higher risk of persecution by the Taliban. They are still reliable organizations that have contacted us and clearly indicated who their Afghan employees were, such as the Afghan national human rights institution, United Nations organizations in the field or NGOs active there, such as Mothers for Peace, a Belgian organization that fights for women's rights. For individual files, these are often individuals with a high profile, known for their activities and therefore at high risk. I think it is important to state that. In all categories, preference has been given to people who already have links with Belgium. The total evacuation list obviously also included Belgians with their families and Afghans with a residence status in Belgium, and their families. There are therefore many families among these people who could be included in the criteria for family reunification. Evacuees who do not fall within these criteria are assisted to apply for international protection and their stay in Belgium is then covered by this procedure. It is therefore important to draw attention to the way in which we have worked, in cooperation with a number of international organisations. If reference is made to an operation in the past, namely the Kucam operation, it is more than a criticism of the fact that people have travelled from one country to another without asking for asylum in Belgium. It is also about working with someone who is not part of an official international organisation, with proper screening by the Foreign Office and with all the procedures that exist and the fact that that list was eventually compiled by one individual. I didn't mean to mention that, but if the comparison is made, I'd like to dot the i. You also asked me about the security screening of the evacuated. All evacuated were screened by the Foreign Office, State Security, ADIV, OCAD and federal police and were pulled through the SIS and Evibel databases. There were no Afghans known for facts related to terrorism or the threat to public order. The Dublin Regulation can be applied to persons travelling through the country. Both a visa and any fingerprints allow this. It is not intended that Belgium should simply assume responsibility for people who were evacuated by other countries and who were not on a Belgian evacuation list or have no links with our country. You ask me about the number of visa applications. It is important to distinguish between an e-mail sent to the Cabinet and a formal visa application submitted through the diplomatic post in Islamabad. In my cabinet's mailbox, for example, we received thousands of e-mails since mid-August from people who have questions about the situation in Afghanistan, about the procedures and about when the situation in Afghanistan would ever improve. Those are people who rightly have a lot of concerns and contact us for that. When it comes to the number of visa applications, I do not look at e-mails, but rather at formal visa applications. 41 applications for visas C with motive humanitarian reasons, 83 applications for visas D with motive humanitarian reasons and 69 applications with motive humanitarian reasons-widened family reunification were submitted to the diplomatic post in Islamabad. In any case, it was virtually impossible to issue visas to evacuate them. For the rest, the Aliens Office agreed to 45 humanitarian visas during the month of August. As some members of the Commission have already mentioned, at the time of the operation, it was logical that someone should not be asked to wait several weeks before evacuating in the midst of a crisis. So we did what was necessary. At the level of the European Union, the Ministers of the Interior met to discuss developments in Afghanistan, in particular with regard to the potential implications in the areas of international protection, migration and, of course, security for everyone and security for the European Union and for Belgium. The Council adopted a statement on this subject. The Commission will plan a conference on Afghanistan. There is not yet an agenda, but I imagine that we will discuss the possibilities for Afghans of legal channels through humanitarian admissions, resettlement and reception in the region around Afghanistan. At Belgian level, we have not yet formulated any commitments. In any case, we are waiting for the conference at European level to see which commitments are best suited to the needs that exist. For example, resettlement is not a good way to help Afghans who, or are still in Afghanistan, or have just fled their country for persecution. Resettlement programmes in cooperation with UNHCR are aimed at refugees who have been in a country for a long time without any future prospects. In addition to resettlement, there are other forms of legal access for refugees. In any case, I will take responsibility for granting humanitarian visas. Not specifically for Afghans, but I will simply continue to look at this very widely and think about the application for specific profiles, for specific people who we think are genuinely afraid of persecution, with a link with Belgium and with qualities that make us as a country have to take care of it. With regard to the wider issue of people fleeing and in need of protection, I think we should continue to look at how we can continue to improve reception in the region. I have said it a few times and I will repeat it: 90% of all people fleeing war and persecution seek shelter in the region. It is also our task to improve this reception in the region and to ensure that people do not have to move on to a second, third, fourth, fifth country, but are properly sheltered in the region. That kids can go to school, that parents are safe there. I think it is better for everyone and, first and foremost, for people who flee to find the necessary protection in one of the neighbouring countries or in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, some elements of reply. Firstly, I have noted that no decision has yet been taken on the establishment of a humanitarian visa programme and the introduction of a humanitarian air bridge. So that remains undecided for the time being, and you are waiting for a number of elements before you take that initiative or not. That seems important to me to know, because you have received thousands of e-mails and of course many Belgians, as well as people with right of residence in Belgium, will ask for family transfers. My question remains: what is the government's position? For the time being, there is not one, so that needs to be clarified and I will continue to ask what the situation is. Secondly, you always refer to the fact that you have saved human rights defenders and journalists, but that is of course not the problem. I was particularly annoyed by the fact that recognised refugees have flown in in this way. I just find that hallucinating. My questions are still pending and I shall return to them later. I also have a question about the 49 people with the right of residence that Mrs Wilmès says they are still on an evacuation list: how many recognised refugees are in between? I didn't get an answer to this explicit question, which is why I'm asking them again. These are not Belgians but people with a right of residence in Belgium. What right of residence is that? Is this about family reunification or are they still recognised refugees? Who are these people? In addition, you say that this is not comparable to the Kucam story, because you work with an international organisation. I have some questions, because if you call for a humanitarian air bridge, I do not know if there will still be many international organisations in Afghanistan at that time. I don't think that's a good chance. At that point, there is no difference. Secondly, security screening has happened to us for everyone, so that also does not work. The point is that you give them 15 days to apply for asylum here and so allow them to move on. You didn't take any Eurodac fingerprints when they came in. So it could be perfect, and it will undoubtedly have already happened, that of those 1,400 people a whole number have traveled through without having any idea which country. So that equation is 100 %, I see no difference. There has been a committee, you may laugh as much as you like, I have been here longer than you have, with a number of recommendations, including the recommendation to ensure that refugees are no longer able to travel on arrival. They must immediately get an airport check-up and apply for asylum in Belgium immediately. You gave them 15 days. So they can travel perfectly. You didn't take any fingerprints from them, so you won't even know where they are. That is exactly what I have been accused of, and I find that very cynical. You can laugh as much as you like. I know very well what it was about. You weren't even sitting here at the time. I think I know that file a little bit. I've been following it a little bit. In addition, you say that each of those 1,400 people has been screened four times and that no one has had a hit. I'll take note of that, all the better. There, too, the question remains whether these people have a connection with Belgium. That screening is necessary but not necessarily conclusive. I understand that as a government, we can't do more than that. The better that there haven't been any negative hits there. Finally, I am left with a number of questions. You say DVZ issued 45 humanitarian visas in August. Then we did what we had to do. I assume those people would have flown in. In addition, there are 41 visas C, 83 visas D, and 69 visas for family reunification. They're in your administration in Islamabad, I suppose, to see if those people can still be flown in. Tot daar.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u45	Minister, many interesting things have been said and your answers have generated many new questions. I was very interested in the outline of a possible European meeting, including resettlement of course. In this regard, you are right to recall that more than 90 per cent of people remain in neighbouring countries, whether in Afghanistan or elsewhere, contrary to what some claim. However, there is a link between a relocation program and this local issue. See, for example, Lebanon or other countries hosting large numbers of refugees! Sometimes resettlement programmes can provide relief to neighbouring countries so that they can accommodate new waves linked to other contexts, with people who have no prospect of resettlement in their country of origin. For this reason, I am not sure that the Hazaras living in Pakistan have a perspective with the Taliban in the coming weeks. Belgium did what it could. The operation was managed in the best possible way. Of course, people who remain in the country are in danger. We must realize that we have moral, legal and international obligations to them, and that is where the European level intervenes. It is not Belgium that will respond to the danger of these hundreds of thousands of Afghans, but a European response must be given to the issue. I must ask your colleague, Mrs Wilmès, about Pakistan and the Belgian consular services in Pakistan. Many families, who were candidates for family reunification and had received a favourable response, were invited to travel to Islamabad to receive their visas. But it is very complicated, when you live in Kabul for the time being, to go to Islamabad. On the other hand, Pakistan does not allow people to leave without a stamp on the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Problems will therefore arise and coordination will be necessary with your colleague, Mrs Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u46	Mr Madhi, you have listed a number of elements that were used in the assessment to evacuate people to Belgium or not. I also heard that these elements would be used in the future to decide which people could be evacuated further. I wonder what's going on here. How many more people are you planning to evacuate? After all, if we start to interpret these elements in a broad sense, then there are quite a few of those 38 or 39 million Afghans that are eligible. I don't think we could catch all of them. You referred to the conference at European level and you do not want to take it for granted, but you say that our commitment must be adjusted according to the needs. However, these needs can of course be interpreted as one wishes. The needs according to your green coalition partners are "to meet everyone who needs protection." Of course, that's a lot of people. When I hear your liberal colleagues, through Goedele Liekens, it's about all women who can't have higher education. Again, that's about 20 million Afghan women. I don't think we'd be able to catch all these people if that turned out to be the trouble. You're saying the screening was negative for all 1,400 people who have been evacuated, so I'm wondering if that screening has happened thoroughly enough? Does this screening investigate whether there are people who commit religious violence, because in Austria this seems to be a serious problem? Mr Madhi, in your reply you say that people should not travel to a second or third or fourth or fifth country in order to be safe. You're talking about the Afghan context. If, however, anyone decides to flee from Afghanistan to Iran, to flee to Turkey, to Bulgaria, to Romania, to Hungary, to Austria, to Germany and then to Belgium, and often even to the United Kingdom, are you not going to tell me that they are doing so for the sake of security? Then they do so for the money, for social security, for the land of milk and honey that Belgium is for those people. Let's be honest about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u47	The associations warn about the particularly alarming situation of MENA, particularly in Brussels. Their situation has worsened for months and more and more young people – I would even say very young people, including nine-year-olds – find themselves in the streets of Brussels. MENA seats are completely saturated within Fedasil's hosting network. There are no more seats available in the first phase. Mattresses are even placed on the ground in the Orientation and Observation Centres (COO) and designations must be made directly into the second phase. Of course, it is not a service for minors, but it at least prevents them from being on the street or waiting for a place. Rapid responses are needed to an alarming situation in the best interests of children. What alternatives are you going to take in the short and medium term? How many MENA are registered by the guardianship service and how many are hosted? Given the unavailability of places reserved for MENA, what solutions can you bring to free seats? Will it be about taking places in the adult quota or opening new places? What policy is being implemented to raise awareness among young people who do not return to the network when they have the right to return to the network for care? We know this because we find ourselves in this case with the undocumented people in Brussels. We encounter the same difficulty with transmigrant MENA everywhere in Belgium. I'm also dealing with this case in Waremme. What projects and results regarding MENA remain at risk by not seeking international protection? With your colleague Minister of Justice, are there any avenues for solutions regarding the accommodation of minors who arrive in the territory waiting for a guardian not essential for their accompaniment and well-being?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, my colleague Mr Rigot has already touched on the substance of the matter, but I would like to ask two questions in particular. On 6 September, you mentioned on a Belgian radio station that discussions were under way with Morocco to allow the repatriation of MENA to that country. What was the discussion? We also have specific obligations to MENA. This question is at the crossroads of several competences, with the federations and the Communities which are competent to deal with minors at risk. Could it be mentioned at the next or first Interministerial Conference on Migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u49	Colleagues, I share your concerns about the difficulties of welcoming MENA, a very vulnerable group. That is why this theme will be placed on the agenda of the Asylum, Migration and Integration. We'll make it a priority, Mr. Moutquin. Between 1 January and 31 August 2021, Fedasil offered a reception place for 2081 MENA, either at the arrival centre or oriented towards the centres by the guardianship services. Since the summer of 2020, Fedasil has taken numerous urgent steps to increase its capacity to welcome MENA, such as increasing the capacity for reception in all orientation and observation centres, providing temporary places in the arrival centre and observation and orientation places in the Overijse centre and creating new reception places in collaboration with the social Samu. Fedasil continues to increase its reception capacity for MENA: in the first reception phase, with the forthcoming opening of a new observation and orientation centre in Auderghem; in the second and third reception phase, with an expected increase in reception capacity. For the youngest and most vulnerable, there has been a collaboration with the Communities since 2016. Concrete proposals are currently being discussed to increase reception capacity for this particular group. Provision has been made for adequate accommodation for unaccompanied minors. For young people in transit, Fedasil has been funding since 2019 the project "XTRA MENA" whose objective is to intensively support MENA in transit through the information of all aspects and the protection of MENA in Belgium, by raising awareness, supporting and training front-line actors and professionals and by developing a reception proposal adapted for vulnerable MENA in transit with a view to their entry into the official reception network. For MENA with a street profile, my firm has initiated consultations with Fedasil and community, regional and local actors as well as with the actors on the ground in order to be able to offer a first reception most adapted to the specific needs of these minors. For this target group, my cabinet has already been in consultation with, among other things, the Cabinets of Prime Minister Vervoort and Minister Maron. This consultation is always constructive, and everyone is in favour of a solution for these children. Fedasil works closely with the guardianship services in order to be able to organise the identification of the MENA as soon as possible on the minority of whom the competent authorities have cast doubt. A rapid identification allows for an effective orientation towards the second phase of these people welcomed in the first reception phase. Mr Moutquin, you also asked me about the return of the Moroccan MENA. A working group was launched to review the memorandum of understanding with Morocco as a whole. The revision will therefore also include minors. It is important to realize that for some unaccompanied minors, return can be the durable solution. Reunification with the family in the country of origin is often in the best interests of the child, which is our primary concern. This is what needs to be taken into account in this analysis. It is, of course, important to first have the confidence of minors, in order to work towards a sustainable solution. There is no question of forced return of these unaccompanied minors. Personally, I am somewhat disappointed by the communications from some organizations that the reception of unaccompanied minors must be guaranteed. Of course! As has been said by several members of the Commission, competencies are shared not only between the Regions and the federal government, but also at the federal level. I don't want to point at each other. We need to work together and move forward. That is why we have this interministerial conference. No child should sleep on the street. That is my first concern and that of all those in this committee, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I had no doubt for a second that we shared the same will to be very attentive and to respect the best interests of the child. As you said, these are cross-cutting competences not only at the federal level but also at the level of the federated entities. Perhaps we could consider setting up a working group to address this comprehensive issue of supporting MENA. Before they were unaccompanied aliens, they were minors. The various competent ministers, the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child, and the Tutelle Service could be brought together around the table. The field expertise could perhaps help us to find answers to the following questions: how can we raise awareness of reception? How can we help them? What messages do they receive? This is an option that we could consider in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. As far as the communications of certain organizations and associations are concerned, it is possible to reflect on their intensity or severity. These people are in direct contact with these horrible realities. They sometimes find very young children on the street, in states of extreme danger. They also communicate according to an anger which may be misdirected but which must be understood. When I asked Mrs De Block questions about the MENA, it was made clear to me that this matter was a matter for the Communities. On the other hand, you take the problem to arm-the-body in dialogue and consultation at the level of the Asylum and Migration. It is really interesting to see this collaboration and not the return of the ball to others. The best interests of the child must indeed guide us. I am pleased to note that, in particular, in the government agreement, the issue of children occupies an important place as well as the policies that follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u52	Mr President, Mr Rigot, access to the labour market is the responsibility of the Regions. The question should therefore be addressed to the relevant regional ministers. For my part, I will in any case analyse whether there are possibilities to use this passport already during the asylum procedure. As you know, the activation and acquisition of the skills of asylum seekers is an issue that I attach great importance to. So I want to continue working on it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will certainly pass this on to my colleagues at the level of the Regions who will pass it on to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u54	Mr Vandenput is on his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have repeatedly expressed your support for the EU's planned visa sanctions for countries that refuse to take back their illegally staying nationals. The sanctions in question could be introduced as early as this summer. Meanwhile, autumn has begun, but unfortunately we have not heard very much about these plans. Especially in view of the obvious increase in illegal migration to our parts of the world, there seems to be some urgency and, above all, decisiveness in this regard. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a state of affairs regarding the announced visa sanctions. Why are the sanctions in question against unwilling countries still not in force so far? When can we expect concrete measures? Are visa benefits already provided for certain countries which cooperate well? That too is quite possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u56	Mr President, my two oral questions put together under this item do not really have the same content, but I will put them together. Mr Secretary of State, on visa sanctions, I agree with Mr Van Langenhove's question. We see many promises, but of course little outcome. Where are the sanctions? Have you had any discussions on the bilateral readmission agreements? If so, with which countries and what is the outcome? What further consultation do you have planned? You have had to release illegal immigrants from closed centres as a result of the refusal of the country of origin to take back its own nationals. How many people are we talking about? How many of them have criminal records? I would like to have an overview per person of the facts for which it is known and of the facts for which it has been convicted, each time stating nationality. My second question concerns the European Migration Pact. European migration and return policies are dramatic. Last week, the European Court of Auditors published a report which clearly shows that EU return policy fails and actually encourages illegal migration and smuggling rather than advises against it. That is, of course, particularly painful. That report confirms that the mop is with the tap open. The current model is completely bankrupt and can never be efficient. On the contrary, it causes a great deal of annoyance, and rightly so, even for many people who follow it closely, without falling into fake news. Those who know the facts and figures, based on hard news, know that it simply doesn't work and can't work either. It's really very problematic. It may be interesting to hear staff from the European Court of Auditors in our committee. This morning I sent a letter to our committee chairman asking whether this could be discussed in the order of business. Then we can discuss it with the people themselves and, above all, listen to their decisions and solutions. In response to the report, you state that the European Migration Pact is needed. However, since the presentation of that pact, there has been very little progress on this dossier. European Commission President von der Leyen barely mentioned the issue of migration in her State of the Union, while two years ago she made it her priority and entrusted it to two European Commissioners. There is nothing left of that now, which is painful for the European Commission. What is the state of play with regard to the negotiations on the European Asylum and Migration Pact? What timetable is set? What reforms do you think will prevent illegal migration and trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u57	I had tabled two different questions, but they were merged. One concerns the European Court of Auditors' report. What do you think of that? I welcome Mr Francken's proposal in this respect, namely to invite these people to the committee and listen to their solutions. My second question was about the pressing return policy. More specifically, I would like to ask for figures, which is why I would also like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u58	Thank you, colleagues, for the questions. As you know, I believe that we need a clear European policy with precise agreements on screening and control at the external borders. The European Asylum and Migration Pact has been under negotiation for some time and the frustration is shared that it needs to be speeded up and the system with which we work today does not ensure that we achieve controlled migration as it should. This is also why Europe needs to work towards better cooperation and a European asylum and migration pact that brings about a change and a better policy. This means that separate legal procedures are followed in these negotiations for the various aspects. I have already stated to this committee that there have been minor successes under the Portuguese Presidency on legal migration, on the external dimension and, not least, on the agreement on the creation of a fully-fledged European asylum agency. That is the biggest step that has been taken within those smaller steps. Especially because it was an essential part of the large asylum and migration pact that all countries said was all or nothing. We need to break that open and achieve results step by step. The European Asylum Agency is a first important step. Next up is Eurodac. I have mentioned this a number of times at European meetings. We need to improve the exchange of biometric and other data on individuals. There are important steps to be taken. Europe is strengthening its external borders, but at national level rather than at European level. Europe must continue to work on this. I would like to say nothing about the return, where we are very good at negotiating 27 times with a country of origin, rather than joining forces and speaking as a Europe with a stronger voice. So be it. Forced return is the final piece of migration policy and the Court's report is very interesting. It states, among other things, that voluntary return is not sufficiently exploited and that there is also better return where reintegration aid is used. This is further discussed in the European Integration Pact. We must do this by ensuring better return agreements in addition to reintegration support and voluntary return. All is well and good, as long as little Belgium and even little France and all other European countries individually negotiate one will never arrive at the totally desired scenario. One must learn to speak with one voice. Something is sometimes moving at European level in this area. That is not going to happen fast enough, but I hope that we will see a change in that in the coming months. In addition, I have correctly noted the recommendations of the report on a more pragmatic approach. Having a return agreement in itself does not always say much about return relations with the country of origin. I would therefore like to make sure, above all, that if we conclude an agreement, these agreements are lasting and effective and produce results. My services are currently negotiating readmission agreements with several countries both bilaterally and at Benelux level. As regards visa sanctions, in March the Council gave the European Commission the mandate to launch diplomatic talks with a selection of priority countries in accordance with Article 25.a of the Visa Code. On the basis of the outcome of these talks, the European Commission can propose visa sanctions to the Council, as I said. The European Commission said that it would like to be able to make proposals on visa sanctions to the Council by the end of the summer. The European Commission has therefore submitted a number of proposals to the Member States before the summer recess. It is therefore to be expected that the next Slovenian Presidency will take those proposals to Council level to discuss the proposals and decide on them. The European Commission has therefore done its job. I did not say that the European Commission will decide unilaterally where and when we will apply which visa sanctions, because that is not the job of the European Commission. It is her job to make a number of proposals. These proposals are now at the level of the Council, where decisions need to be taken. I would like to emphasise that. I understand the frustration about the European decision-making process. I am sure you will agree with me on this, but the European Commission has done what it has said in this respect. I was also asked whether this mechanism could also be used to give benefits to third countries that are contributing to the return. That is possible, but the European Commission has not yet made any proposals on the granting of such benefits. Mr Vandenput, you have asked a number of interesting questions concerning the return of illegal residents. The upcoming return guidance by the Department of Foreign Affairs is now called the individual case management support (ICAM), in which each person is followed individually. Various target groups will be supported within the ICAM procedure. These are individual foreigners, families with children under the age of illegal residence, international protection applicants who reside in the open places of return of Fedasil's shelters and so on. On 1 June 2021, a new department was established within the Foreign Affairs Office, which is responsible for this new approach, the alternative department for detention. This new department is in full start-up and at the beginning of September the service was strengthened by three people through internal mobility. 11 ICAM escorts are currently working and the external selections have now been completed. There were a total of 1,315 candidates from which 64 laureates were selected. One is currently looking with the laureates when they can enlist. The first take-up is likely to take place from 1 November. A question was also asked about the 700 employees. I forgot to mention that there were 3,730 candidates in total. Thus, even when the labour market is tight, 3,730 people are interested in working for the government in the asylum and migration services. This is a sign that there are many people who want to contribute to a better asylum and migration policy. I am particularly proud of the services' work to motivate people. That is a good thing. It is important that the ICAM escorts are physically present in the major cities, in different locations. Regional contact points will be established in all provinces to provide guidance close to the people. In order to be able to switch quickly, preference is given in the first instance to the establishment of a chat room within an existing setting, where chat rooms with a point of contact are already being used. The Foreign Affairs Department is currently in the process of searching for locations that meet the needs on the ground. At present, important partners, both internal and external, are being identified. The first steps are taken to establish cooperation. In order for the project to succeed, constructive cooperation with all partners is essential. An insistent approach with intensive guidance tailored to people in illegal residence who have been given an order to leave the territory requires a very different approach from what we have known so far. The role of the municipalities and cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office should therefore be examined in this context. Of course, the municipalities remain an important partner of the DVZ. The SEFOR letter of 10 June 2011 will therefore soon be replaced by an ICAM support letter. New forms of individual route guidance will be included in the new circular and the role of the ICAM supervisor will be extended in relation to the role of the municipalities. In addition, the powers of all relevant actors will be clarified. Persons who have received an order to leave the territory, served by the municipality, will be invited by the ICAM escorts and will be accompanied to a sustainable future in the regional offices. All aspects of the legal and administrative residence situation are taken into account. It therefore goes beyond merely providing information. When there are no more accommodation options, the stranger will be accompanied and prepared for voluntary return if possible. In case of refusal of cooperation, the alien will have to be returned in a forced manner. The guidance therefore goes far beyond the powers mentioned in the current SEFOR letter. As regards the return escorts for illegal residents in prisons, Mr Vandeput asked a question about this. Six internal employees were selected, including two already started, one on October 1st, and three for whom the date has not yet been set since there is no replacement possible in the centre, and the operation must first be guaranteed. In addition, an external candidate was selected. So we're looking for three more outsiders, and we're currently consulting a reserve for that. We're working on that. People with a criminal past are a very important target group, and we need to focus on that. That is the first group for which we must make maximum efforts to return. As regards the strengthening of Fedasil's limited outreach, six additional persons have been recruited to strengthen it. There were also a number of questions about figures, for which you have to submit a written question. I will ask my administration to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, you advocate better cooperation at European level. In my question, I thought I had just made it clear that it is not working at European level. People like Ursula von der Leyen and Ylva Johansson argue that we must offer protection to everyone who needs it. It's about millions of people. However, I quote them literally; there is little interpretation of that. On the other hand, your Christian Democrat colleagues from Austria say that it has been enough, especially when it comes to the reception of even more Afghans in the European Union. Countries such as Poland and Hungary are also on that stricter migration line. If you want to work together at European level, I hope that it will mainly be with that second group, because that is the only group that I believe will have a future when we see what is coming towards us. With regard to readmission agreements, you are once again calling for a readmission agreement at European level. You say it's far too hard to negotiate as a small country. You even call France a small country in that respect. However, this has always been a very large country in the past, with which I mean that it has always been able to negotiate very strong and well and has a very good history in diplomacy. I don't think anything's gonna stand in the way of us getting back on that tour, negotiating back from a strong position. In that case, you must dare to put everything on the table, such as trade agreements, development aid, visa sanctions and visa privileges. When you throw everything we have into the bowl, you have a strong starting position to negotiate. However, that is exactly what does not happen, partly because you are handicapped by the very poor government agreement. The priority countries have been known for a long time. They were listed in the German newspaper Die Welt. I look forward very much to the outcome of the European Council, to which you refer. There is no doubt that I will ask questions again in this committee afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will put another written question on these points. I can only say that I believe that the European Migration Pact is stillborn as long as no agreement can be reached within the three blocks of the European Union. The Western part of Europe says that there must be permanent responsibility and fundamental solutions to the Dublin takeovers. The Visegrad countries and the eastern countries simply do not want migrants and take the position of a fortress Europe, with its borders closed. Walls or fences are built with barbed wire everywhere. The third block is the primary recipient countries, in particular Italy and Greece, but also Spain. They prefer to see migrants forwarded as quickly as possible, especially not to keep them on the ground. In all possible ways, they ensure that the procedures last as long as possible and that there is as little luxury as possible. The basic comfort offered is minimal, with the intention that it is so unattractive that no one wants to come. As long as that knot isn't cut, you'll always be spinning rounds, years and years. European visa sanctions may be for me, but that does not relieve you of your duty to do something yourself, as Mr Van Langenhove said. Thirdly, what exactly does ICAM stand for? That's the first I've heard of that. I understand that a new letter will be sent and that you have staff working on it. That's kind of a new safe, I understand, for an employee who's specifically working on pressing return policy. I'd like to hear it all, and I hope it works. Sending people back to the countries of origin is particularly problematic. Even the Dublin takeovers by some countries have stopped. We will see whether this alternative to detention will work effectively in practice. We'll follow up on this. I will re-table my questions, but as written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answers. As far as the European Court of Auditors is concerned, I share your concern about the very slow process within Europe to reach an agreement. We also believe that a European migration policy is needed. Controls at the external borders, strengthening the external borders, and doing the triage between the people who can travel and the people who are not eligible at all and therefore should not cross Europe's borders. We support you in that. Mr President, it might be an enrichment if we could invite the European Court of Auditors here. I am pleased that you have made progress along with the DVZ on the promotion of return policy by the ICAM teams. I understand that they will be mainly in the urban environment, but I would ask you not to forget the small towns. I would like to make a suggestion: buy these people an electric bicycle or an electric car so that they can go to the small municipalities, because the proceedings will never take the bus from Hoeilaart to Leuven, for example, or to Brussels. Go see those people. Get to work with the social services of these municipalities to make it clear to them. A conversation at a location where they feel safer will help more than an invitation to a conversation that will never come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, the figures of the CGVS show that no less than 2,862 applications for international protection were granted in August. That's 470 more than in July. 772 people submitted a second or subsequent asylum application compared with 471 in July. More than half of those who applied repeatedly had Afghanistan as their country of origin, which represents a significant increase compared to the month before. The explanation is perhaps the taking over of power by the Taliban in Afghanistan, although the real flow of it still needs to start. You clarified in the media that those Afghan applications for international protection are not automatically given the green light, because the CGVS assesses each application in full independence and objectivity. There is currently a temporary suspension of this assessment, as the CGVS wishes to evaluate the changed situation before taking new decisions. My obvious question is whether there is any knowledge of when this assessment will be completed by the CGVS and whether you can make a preliminary purchase on it? How do you intend to reduce these dramatic figures in the short term? Many Afghans who have already rejected their application for asylum are now submitting a new application. The takeover of the Taliban and the subsequent communication of the Belgian government is apparently being abused. How will you curb this abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u63	Mr Van Langenhove, as far as your first question is concerned, the CGVS, which is in complete independence in relation to asylum applications, cannot yet tell whether or not the decision-making stop will be lifted at the end of September. The stop will therefore not be lifted for decisions on refugee recognition, but for decisions on subsidiary protection. They will decide on this after the thorough and necessary investigation of the security situation in Afghanistan. Many things can be said about multiple asylum applications. It is understandable that the Afghans have submitted a new and subsequent request since the Taliban took over power. The fact that there are people on our territory who have already received a negative response and have been here for years and have not returned is frustrating. They should have come back a long time ago. It is a frustration to find that there are many people in illegal residence who stay here anyway. One can also ask oneself where these Afghans would be if they had returned. The fact that they are now applying for new asylum cannot be blamed on them. This does not mean that this amendment is a new relevant element justifying an investigation on the substance of their new request. It is up to the CGVS and appeal to the RVV to assess this and not to me. It is not automatic that the changed situation justifies a new request. The apparent increase in the number of requests is initially a possible temporary phenomenon. It is premature to speak of abuse, but it is up to the asylum authorities DVZ for registration and CVVS for investigation and appeal to carry out and verify their mission. In addition, it is necessary to consider whether other findings can be made: possible phenomena of avoidance or abuse, for example. We need to look at how to respond most effectively: by accelerating the treatment of certain target groups in order to give a direct signal that these abuses are immediately identified, by stepping up efforts to return certain groups, regardless of nationality, and also by addressing certain smuggling networks that are able to find their way to Belgium. My services monitor these phenomena and will respond to them in an appropriate time and manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic575x.u64	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I hope that the CGVS will not wait and discuss too long. I do not think that the situation in Afghanistan will change dramatically in the coming months. Panjshir too will soon be under Taliban control and I do not think there will be any challengers on the horizon anytime soon. It is therefore likely to be a constant for the coming years. I suspect that there will be a decision there soon, and I will be asking questions about it shortly. You say that it is premature to talk about abuse and that this would probably be a temporary phenomenon. I hope so, and we'll see for the next few weeks and months if that's true. I fear so, but I hope you are right in that regard. I certainly hope that the signal you would give against abuse will also be effective. You have made a number of suggestions. Take them to heart, execute them, and get that signal. If we do not send a strong signal now, we will set a very dangerous precedent for the future, which would suggest that Belgium tolerates abuse, and that is not possible. So go for it!
