ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u1	Madam Minister, very recently an evaluation was made of the first month of zone 30 in Brussels. In that triumphant evaluation, emphasis is placed on the fact that motorists are on average 9 % slower driving, while the journey time to get to the destination has not increased. At first glance, the logic is simple: the faster one drives, the more fuel the car consumes, with the more CO2 emissions in the atmosphere. On the website of, for example, the municipality of Schaerbeek, it says that the introduction of the general zone 30 will reduce CO2 emissions and thus improve air quality. Moreover, the car would use less if it was slower. Is that last statement true? The question is whether that logic is so unambiguous. Did it ever occur to us that the general introduction of a zone 30 would lead to more fuel consumption and could therefore result in exactly more CO2 emissions? After all, petrol cars consume more at unstable speeds, brake and accelerate again, while consumption is optimal in terms of emissions in case of a constant speed of about 70 kilometres per hour. This speed should be maintained as far as possible in order to reduce consumption and CO2 emissions. I'll give you that for what it's worth. Madam Minister, how do you assess the fact that, in an insufficiently electrified fleet, the generalised introduction of a zone 30 could lead to more CO2 emissions not only in Brussels but in all metropolitan areas? In short, there is only a reduction in CO2 emissions due to the generalisation of zone 30 in the case of fewer journeys by car and an increase in less polluting modes of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u2	Mr Ravyts, I agree that a petrol or diesel car is not built to run at 30 or even 50 km/h, but I also note that the increase in urban road traffic during rush hours causes cars to slow down or even stop, so that the performance of these cars is never optimal. This leads to an overconsumption of fuel per kilometre travelled, as well as an increase in CO2 and air pollutants emissions. Travel times become longer and have consequences on, among other things, work organisation and return home. The available studies on the impact of reducing the speed limit from 50 km/h to 30 km/h on the difference in emissions from vehicles do not provide sufficient evidence to argue for or against zone 30. The effect of this is clearly marginal compared to other factors, such as the mass of vehicles, traffic or traffic flow which allows a reduction in the maximum speed. In addition, the speed limitation fits in with a trend in which the big cities want to give priority to weak road users, pedestrians and cyclists. As I see it, these policy choices, which belong entirely to the regions, also involve sound security considerations. The integration of the car into a policy of soft mobility, partial mobility and public transport requires convergence of travel rates to ensure one or more optimal transport combinations. The car and its electric version will always be part of the solution, on an equal footing with the more efficient means of transport in terms of CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u3	Madam Secretary, you say that there is no sufficient evidence to use the climate as an argument for or against zone 30. I can go along with that, but I would like to stress that communication focuses on the impact on the number of road deaths, noise and work organisation. I remain convinced that zone 30 is not directly the best climate measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u4	Madam Secretary, my question dates from mid-February. The week before, the introduction of a carbon tax proved to be a subject for discussion. First, there was the argument of the Governor of the National Bank, Mr Wunsch, for such a tax as a means of achieving the strict climate objectives. After that, Mrs. De Bleeker, your colleague in the federal government, also indicated that she was fond of that idea. Do you agree with Secretary of State De Bleeker? Have you had any contact with her on that subject? If so, with what result? You yourself argued earlier for the introduction of a carbon tax, although this was not explicitly included in the coalition agreement. What is the government's current position on this? Has the introduction of such a fee been discussed within the government? Will you still plead for it? What should such a carbon tax look like? The word carbon tax seems to imply that CO2 emissions are not yet taxed. That is, of course, the case. For example, excise duties can be regarded as a CO2 tax. Which tonne of CO2 do you think will not be taxed today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u5	Madam Minister, a number of statements have been made in recent weeks, as has been mentioned. I'll add another one. Flemish Minister Demir has ordered a new study on the CO2 tax. Her predecessor, Mrs Schauvliege, had already ordered a study. I quote from the study bureau's conclusions: "This study confirms that a CO2 tax can be an important tool for reducing emissions in Flanders. Even with a limited amount of charging, an impact on CO2 emissions is already observed. The CO2 tax with the price path used in this study could achieve a significant part of the objectives for buildings of the Flemish climate policy plan." It is also written that a CO2 tax allows policy makers to finance further energy transition policies, but one can, of course, also finance direct returns for the population and businesses to reduce their impact. In addition, this could have additional positive effects, such as reducing congestion and emissions. Finally, the study shows that there are opportunities to counter negative effects and create a positive net effect on the socially vulnerable groups. Those are some interesting findings. In spite of everything, the Flemish minister does not seem to be very enthusiastic, but has ordered a new study. I wonder which direction it will take. What I'm wondering is how you look at this. Every environmental economist in the world says we need that green tax shift. The question is how we will do that in our country. Would you like Flanders to introduce a CO2 tax on its own, or would it be better if we had a single global system in our country? Do you consult with the Flemish Minister on this matter? Do you know what the purpose of this new study is? What is the state of affairs - and I must contradict the previous speaker in part - of the green tax shift announced in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement explicitly states that a broader tax reform will examine taxation in order to make it more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. This will also be based on the polluter-pays principle, in order to discourage the use of fossil fuels as far as possible by introducing a tax-driven instrument that would operate via price signals. The government agreement also states that it is important to provide for accompanying policies at the same time and to safeguard the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of families. The position of the federal government seems to me to be very clear in this respect. My colleague Van Peteghem is in charge of this. As Minister for Climate Policy, it is my duty to make it clear that we in Belgium will have to use all possible policies to meet our ambitious climate targets for 2030 and 2050. A carbon pricing as a tax-driven instrument will of course fit in with this and will be further analysed, as foreseen in the National Energy and Climate Plan. You referred to Mr Wunsch's recent statement. He actually joins with most economists who have long argued in favour of introducing a carbon price as a central instrument in a mix of policies to achieve the transition to a climate-neutral society. The European Commission, the OECD and the IMF have also repeatedly recommended to our country that such a tax-driven instrument should be used. Many countries, including our neighbouring countries, have already introduced or are in the process of implementing such an instrument. There are several options for introducing carbon pricing which can all be considered. I am not going to comment on which option would best be introduced. An explicit CO2 price currently exists in Belgium only for installations covered by the European emissions trading system. We can also discuss whether other already existing taxes, such as excise duties, can be considered at least partially as a tax on CO2 emissions. However, we cannot in any case say that these charges were explicitly introduced for this reason. It is also the case that the overall level of taxation of different fossil fuels in Belgium is lower than in the neighbouring countries. Moreover, the many neighbouring countries that have already introduced a carbon tax have done so by putting an explicit price on CO2. Then I come to the question about the Flemish situation. I am aware of the 2019 PwC study that can be found on the website of the Department of Environment of the Flemish government. The PwC study reaffirms many of the conclusions that my administration had already reached in the national debate on carbon tarification. I am not currently discussing this issue with my Flemish colleague because it is not on the agenda. As far as your question about the best level of government to introduce carbon pricing is concerned, any entity is free to pursue an effective climate policy within its powers. However, there are good arguments for introducing carbon tarification at the highest possible level as it reduces border effects, increases the level playing field and reduces administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u7	Madam Minister, allow me to respond for a moment to Mr Verduyckt who refers to the Flemish Minister. He's probably getting the mustard out of De Standaard yesterday, which wrongly refers to Minister Demir who's having a follow-up study on the PwC study you're quoting. The study that Minister Demir had done and which was mentioned in De Standaard wants to see what effect the extension of the ETS to buildings and transport would have in Flanders. So that's a completely different study from the one PwC was doing and that was a bit unclear in the newspaper. I have corrected that for you, Mr Verduyckt. Madam Minister, the government agreement does indeed say that taxation needs to be reformed in order to discourage the use of fossil fuels. You don't want to say again that there's going to be a carbon tax. You say it inflamed, and I actually understand that. I would remind you that at the start of the government, you argued for the carbon tax. Then your Deputy Prime Minister Gilkinet put that fire out by saying there would be no carbon tax. When I ask what such a carbon tax should look like, you refer to Minister Van Peteghem. So I take note that you, as a cross-cutting climate minister, remain very vague about that. According to the PwC study, Mr Verduyckt also read it yesterday. Simulations were made of people who drive a combustion engine and heat it with gas or fuel oil. Those are quite a few people: it is about charges of 20, 50 or 75 euros extra, today or in 2019. According to the study, the price per tonne of CO2 will increase from EUR 10 to EUR 100 by 2030. With these amounts, a zero is added to everything, and that means something for the people. These amounts can be avoided, Madam Minister, by heat pumps, electric cars and so on. You can afford that and so can I, but that is much more difficult for many people and for the companies that take care of the jobs for those people. That is why I regret that you are stuck in woolly dreams about CO2 taxes and green taxation, without telling us in concrete terms what other burdens will be reduced or disappear, what policies will be invested in and how the money will be returned to the people. I will continue to follow that up with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u8	May I ask you to keep an eye on the time limits for the replies? Mr Verduyckt, you are getting the mustard in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u9	Madam Minister, I think there are good arguments for setting up such a system throughout the country, which is quite clear. Thank you, Mr Raskin, for clarifying the article in De Standaard. The conclusions of that study are very clear. I follow your party colleague's hesitation in the Flemish Parliament, which I hear about. In this committee, others are very often quoted. In recent weeks, Bill Gates has been quoted very often with a statement on nuclear energy. In his new book he comes to the conclusion that there is absolutely no need to put a price on greenhouse gas. He finds this extremely important in order to increase the efficiency of its use. This is remarkable for someone who has always spoken out against government interference in the past. What we will have to do is not so much to discuss carbon pricing in itself: we will absolutely need that system. You are right to raise a number of points such as a social policy in this area. We must not make it even more difficult for the families who are already struggling today. That is indeed very important. Another important question is what will we do with the proceeds of pricing. You're assuming this is a flat tax. However, there are a lot of opportunities for doing other things with that. Mr Raskin, it is very unfair that apples from your region are sold in the store at almost the same price as apples from New Zealand, whereas the impact of those last apples on our environment is much greater. We need to find solutions to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u10	Madam Minister, this question is perfectly in line with the mini-debate just now. The European ETS entered phase IV this year. The EU's more ambitious emissions targets imply that the system for that phase needs to be re-examined, after it has already done so in early 2018. In order to meet the new CO2 targets, the pace of annual reductions in the number of allowances available will have to accelerate. With regard to the new carbon reduction targets and their impact on carbon pricing, this applies at present only to industry and aviation. The mobility sector is not currently covered by this system, but the European Commission is considering extending the ETS to road transport. A first proposal from the EU is expected in June. The European Commission is considering an upstream approach whereby fuel suppliers would acquire the allowances. If it is chosen that fuel suppliers should pay the allowances, this does not fit within the cost-effective trading system envisaged by the ETS Directive. The allowance will in fact become a tax, because the person who has to pay the right has no option of taking cost-effective measures to avoid emissions. In any event, the adaptation of the Directive requires the agreement of the Member States. The Flemish government is critical and has concerns about extending the ETS to fuel oil, gas, petrol and diesel. It fears an increase in energy poverty if, for example, there would be a carbon price on fuel oil. Madam Minister, can you explain more about the questionnaire that the European Commission has sent to the Member States and about the Belgian involvement in the procedures that should lead to a revision of the directive? What is the federal government's position on this matter? How can negative social consequences be avoided in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u11	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, in June, the European Commission will put forward a series of proposals to adapt European climate and energy legislation to the new objective of reducing European greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, the so-called Fit for 55 package. She launched some public consultations on the various legislative dossiers at the end of last year. In Belgium, joint draft responses were prepared, but unfortunately, despite all efforts, no consensus could be found for all consultations between the four authorities concerned: the regions and the federal state. For example, no Belgian contribution could be sent to the ETS and ESCR public consultations. In its Communication and impact analysis on the new 2030 target, the Commission outlined its ideas and options for climate and energy reform. This underlines the important role that carbon prices can and must play, including in the current non-ETS sectors. It is almost certain that the Commission will propose to integrate shipping into the EU ETS. In order to introduce a carbon price in other current non-ETS sectors, in particular road transport and buildings, it puts on the table various options, such as integrating these sectors into the current EU ETS, creating a separate ETS, possibly as a temporary transitional measure, or national carbon prices via emissions trading systems or through taxation, possibly with a mini-carbon price at EU level through the Energy Taxation Directive, which is also being reviewed. Indeed, integrating these sectors into an emissions trading system would require an upstream approach because it is virtually impossible to measure and verify emissions for each building or means of transport and to allow each individual citizen or company to acquire allowances on the ETS market afterwards to cover their emissions. However, such an upstream approach does not affect the cost-effective nature of the trading system. The price signal remains available to the final consumer, as suppliers will charge the price of the rights purchased. Moreover, even in the case of a carbon price through taxation, the final consumer is encouraged to reduce its emissions, even if the tax is included in the selling price of fuels. The difference with a carbon price through taxation is that a price through an emissions trading system is not fixed, but is the result of supply and demand. However the price is introduced, it is indeed important that the person who should pay it should have the opportunity to avoid that by limiting its emissions. Like our companies, families already have this opportunity, but it is certainly necessary to pursue a policy that further supports alternatives to the use of fossil fuels and makes them accessible to everyone, including the most vulnerable groups in society. The European Commission will present its final proposals in June after further analysis of the various options. From Belgium, we have already indicated that a carbon price is a central instrument in cost-effective climate policy and that we need to examine carefully the optimal way to introduce it in non-ETS sectors. For example, the Commission rightly pointed out that additional measures, in addition to a carbon price, are essential to achieve cost-effective reductions. The final framework should thus not undermine the incentives for the adoption of these measures at national or local level, which could pose a risk in the case of the integration of these sectors into a European system. It is important to examine the impact of the different options, including on the sectors currently covered by the ETS system, and to ensure that all sectors make their cost-effective contribution. Finally, the social impact is an important focus and I am fully committed to a just transition, leaving no one behind. This aspect has already been examined in the framework of the Belgian national debate on carbon pricing that took place in 2017-2018. That debate first and foremost demonstrated that carbon prices are essential for an effective and efficient climate policy, which is in the interests of all of us. A strong climate policy also offers opportunities for new jobs, a healthy living environment and greater prosperity, which should also benefit the most vulnerable. In addition, the national debate has shown that it is perfectly possible to use the proceeds of a carbon tax to address potential negative distribution effects, without disrupting the carbon price signal. Several analyses show that such redistribution can be beneficial to the most vulnerable groups. Finally, it is essential to support everyone, especially the most vulnerable, to reduce their emissions by renovating houses, stimulating public transport and so on, so that they do not have to pay carbon price at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive and important answer. You first outlined the overall context of the European plans, with the different options for carbon prices. Furthermore, the word "research" passed through your answer like a thread. Everything's still under investigation. We will certainly have to come back to this issue in detail in this committee, because if people are asked to reduce their emissions, it will obviously require a very important alternative policy for the vulnerable groups. I am very curious whether this government will succeed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u13	Madam Minister, in order to reduce the climate impact of traffic on our roads, the government has stated in its coalition agreement its intention to allow only the sale of zero-emission vehicles in the long term. However, important conditions are that there are sufficiently affordable cars on the market and that life-cycle analyses are available. In addition, you would like to consult the Länder on this matter. Firstly, have you already discussed the specific issue with your fellow Members in the Länder? If yes, when and with what result? If not, is a consultation planned in the near future? Secondly, is the timing of your intention already in practice? Has a trajectory been drawn up with different phases? What does that trajectory look like? Thirdly, the first condition concerns the affordability of zero emission vehicles. What do you mean by that concept? Do you think that condition has been fulfilled today? If not, when do you expect this to be the case? Finally, the second condition concerns the availability of life-cycle analyses. How should that condition be understood? By what time will she be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u14	Mr Raskin, I share your concern about the emissions of vehicles with internal combustion engines in view of the negative impact on climate and air quality. Road emissions account for more than one fifth of all our greenhouse gas emissions. Together with households, the transport sector is responsible for half of the air pollution in Belgium. In conjunction with other mobility measures, a realistic but ambitious phasing out of internal combustion engines seems to me to be one of the most important levers to reverse the curve of increasing road traffic emissions. Our coalition agreement already states that all new commercial vehicles must be greenhouse gas-free by 2026. That objective will be achieved under the direction of Minister Van Peteghem. Belgium is not alone in this commitment. Several European countries have already drawn up phase-out plans. For example, Norway, Slovenia, Denmark and Sweden plan to stop the sale of internal combustion engine vehicles from 2025 and 2030 respectively. A number of key car manufacturers also announced that only vehicles without an internal combustion engine would be placed on the market by 2030 at the latest. At European level, the Commission will present a review of the CO2 standards regulation for passenger and van vehicles in June. Belgium is in favour of an ambitious review of emission standards and a phase-out of the sale of fossil fuel vehicles by 2035 at the latest. However, the gradual abolition and replacement of vehicles with internal combustion engines by zero emission vehicles is an objective that is part of the broader transformation of our transport system. The joint implementation of that transformation requires several policies, such as the roll-out of charging pole infrastructure, coherent infrastructure policies, standards, fiscal incentives and other policies. Consultation on this issue is therefore essential. Both consultations in the federal government and interfederal coordination will facilitate the transition and benefit our citizens and businesses. In this context, I would point out that the development of an interfederal cooperation agreement on sustainable mobility is one of the objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan. One of my priorities is to consult with Minister Gilkinet, responsible for mobility, with the aim of taking the necessary initiatives to facilitate the transformation and decarbonisation of our transport system. The transition must, of course, be socially equitable and climate-neutral alternatives must be affordable. In this respect, it is encouraging that the Federal Planning Bureau concluded that the total cost of purchasing and using a small to medium-sized electric car since the end of 2019 has been as high as or even less than a car with an internal combustion engine, depending on the size of the car and the number of kilometres driven. As a result of economies of scale driven by ambitious targets, both in Belgium and in other countries, climate-neutral alternatives to polluting combustion engines will become increasingly attractive. It is also important to focus not only on direct emissions of road vehicles but also on the environmental impact and the social impact of the production process in relation to the life cycle impact. The approach is not through legislation on emission standards, but through other important initiatives, such as the revision of the European Battery Directives, which regulate the impact of battery production. Despite the fact that several studies show that the life cycle impact of electric vehicles is less than that of vehicles with internal combustion engines, it remains important to monitor the analysis and minimise the life cycle impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. You refer to the ambition in the coalition agreement to introduce a ban on commercial cars with fossil engines by 2026. I think there's still a lot of work to do. You must set an example with your government fleet. There must be a sufficiently developed network of charging stations and other infrastructure. There is also a need for consultation with the regions. I didn't hear that happened. You are also planning consultations with Mr Gilkinet. Nor has that happened. There must also be consultation with employers, because where should workers load their cars? Accessibility in the European Union is also important, because we will not all remain within national borders. Like you, I am concerned about the social impact of the measure. Norway, an example in the EU, has pursued a fiscal favor policy. That cost the state cash there a lot of money and the advantages of it mainly came to the rich. In Norway, the owners of electric cars earn an average of 28% more. I think you should really pay a lot of attention to that stinger. I'm curious to hear about your policy on the plug trucks. Here too you are actually referring to Mr Van Peteghem. I think I should ask him my questions next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u16	Questions Nos 55014604C and 55014605C by Ms Séverine de Laveleye are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u17	Madam Secretary, on 1 December 2014, the Climate Change Association, founded by eleven well-known Flemings, failed our country's federal and regional governments in court. The association asks governments to fulfil their obligations, in this case to reduce Belgian greenhouse gas emissions by 42% by 2025 and 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. In the meantime, almost 60,000 Belgians joined as co-requirers. Next week, the long-awaited trial will start before the court of first instance in Brussels, for which 10 days of advocacy are foreseen. In neighbouring countries, similar court cases have been organised in recent months and years to try to enforce climate policy through the courts. In March 2020, the synthesis conclusions of the public authorities were submitted. Moreover, the federal and Flemish authorities objected to the disclosure of their conclusions. It is strange that even after the start of the Croo government and the roll-out of the federal coalition agreement, the non-profit association remains the greenest government agreement ever to the view that climate ambitions are too low. One of the initiators said in the press last week: "Unfortunately, I find the plans to achieve this strengthened European objective rather vague." He mentioned the plans of the Croo government and therefore your plans. The non-profit association requires a penalty payment of EUR 1 million per month if the government is convicted. Have you, as the Federal Minister of Climate, tried, after your appointment, to have a discussion with the non-governmental organisation on the case, given the reality of the federal government agreement? If so, what were the results? What is your overall response to the ongoing intention of the Climate Change Commission to enforce a more ambitious climate policy through the court?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u18	I've already had a question about this case in the last month. So let me repeat my answer. Hopefully you will understand that we are in court, not in Parliament, especially when the government itself is on the accused's bench. It goes without saying that, for that reason, I will be very reluctant and cautious about commenting as long as the trial goes on. However, the substance of the matter is crystal clear. The climate issue is that governments should avoid dangerous climate change, primarily by reducing greenhouse gas emissions sufficiently. For example, the co-requirers put forward a reduction target of at least 55% by 2030. As you know, Europe is now embracing this reduction target. In December, it decided to reduce emissions by at least 55% in Europe. Not only can Europe count on the support of the federal government in the European debates, but the government has also proposed, through the government agreement, that 55% reduction be achieved by its own powers. I am working on this and we are already making a lot of progress, including the investment in the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience and the various reforms that are now being drawn up. Over the coming months and years, I want to show, above all, in deeds, not words, that we prevent dangerous climate change and fully respect our duty to care for all living beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u19	Madam Minister, you have of course answered completely in addition to the question. My questions are of a political nature, and the essence of the matter is that you are implementing the new coalition agreement, the greenest coalition agreement ever. Why didn't you talk to the Climate Aid Association to stop this case? After all, the actions of this non-profit association stem mainly from the policy of the previous government. I cannot understand that, but I am sure we will discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u20	The first part of the fifth session of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA-5) was held last month to determine the priorities of global environmental policies and to develop international environmental law. The event developed a strategy, work plan and budget to achieve the sustainable development goals of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and, in particular, "to provide science and know-how to Governments". Madam Minister, can we have your feedback on the strategy drawn up by the House, as well as on its possible implications for Belgian environmental policy? In your policy note and, more specifically, in the section on measures relating to endocrine disrupting substances, you referred to your participation in UNEA-5, where you follow "chemical-related resolutions". Can we learn more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u21	Mr President, Mr Senesael, last month the first part of the fifth session of the United Nations Environment Assembly was held. On behalf of Belgium, I have had the opportunity to address colleagues and to highlight the important points for our country. I will attach to my answer, for your information, the speech I gave at this meeting. The European Union and Belgium are pleased with the medium-term strategy, from 2022 to 2025, which clearly defines the priorities of UNEP, one of the fifteen partner organisations of Belgian Development Cooperation. In 2020, several important international negotiations, such as COP 15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, COP 26 on climate change and COP 15 of the Convention to Combat Desertification, were put on hold. This virtual summit has thus maintained political momentum at a high level by anticipating the important agreements that will be reached later this year or early next year on international environmental challenges. A UNEA-5 debriefing is also on the agenda of the next Informal European Council on the Environment. The factors of climate change, loss of biodiversity, pollution and pandemic need to be addressed jointly. The work of UNEP allows us to better understand the links between these threats and their impacts on the environment and human health. We know that harmful chemicals are part of these factors. We also know that sound management of chemicals throughout their life cycle is essential to avoid risks to the environment and human health and the associated economic costs, and for the full achievement of sustainable development goals. The United Nations, through its Environment Programme (UNEP), has committed itself in the framework of the 2020-2025 strategy to setting common objectives and strengthening cooperation with multilateral environmental agreements, including on chemicals, and to aligning itself with the post-2020 framework for biodiversity, chemicals and waste. The United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA) offers an opportunity to further promote the visibility of this cooperation and to strengthen convergence and dialogue. Due to the health crisis, UNEA-5 has been split into two parts and the issue of chemicals will need to be addressed at this second session, which is scheduled to be held in Nairobi from 28 February to 2 March 2022. It is customary for UNEA to do so, and it is a practice that I will support and follow carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your more than satisfactory response. In particular, I would like to highlight two points. First, I would like to support and be in touch with you regarding the links between the environment and human health. This is an area that deserves our full attention, as you have said, with the associated economic costs. The emphasis on this reality is paramount. Secondly, I would like to go back to multilateral agreements, which can be decisive in all matters relating to chemicals and waste. Let us therefore ensure dialogue and convergence, and give your full weight and support to this second part of UNEA in Nairobi, during which chemicals will be highlighted. This is an important issue on the endocrine system, as you highlighted in your policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u23	The Global Multi-Model Projections of Local Urban Climates, published in January 2021 in Nature Climate Change, presents a series of global projections of urban climates over the 21st century. The different scenarios developed have a number of problems. First, because of the increase in temperatures and the capacity of concrete and asphalt in streets and buildings to absorb heat, the phenomenon of heat islands already observed today is likely to become more widespread. Second, while the current demographic trend points to an increase in global urban populations of up to 70 per cent of the world's population in 2050, the study mentions an increase in average city temperature from 1.9°C to 4.4°C in 2100, favouring thermal stress situations. Third, the authors suggest the concomitant risk of a 3% to 13% decrease in relative humidity in cities due to the number of impermeable surfaces limiting the evaporation process. Minister, can we have your feedback on the subject? In your policy note, you stressed in particular that cities with a population of 20,000 or more had to provide an ambitious plan for urban greening. The time has come to take your general policy note and to ask you how to evolve in this area. Do you have any specific information about this? Will projects be initiated at the level of the cities concerned? Can other initiatives – or support initiatives in this direction – be expected and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u24	Mr Senesael, the phenomenon of amplification of thermal stress by the effect of urban heat islands (ICU) is well known and documented. As you point out in your question, the prospects for the future are worrying in this respect, with models indicating that both the intensity of heat waves and their duration will increase during this century, with a phenomenon of amplification in urban areas, making the health impacts all the more severe. In Belgium, too, the frequency of heat waves is increasing. According to the recent study on the assessment of the socio-economic impacts of climate change in Belgium, carried out under the National Adaptation Plan (NAP), the number of days of heat wave could increase to nearly 27 days per year by 2050 in the unfavourable warming scenario (without any rapid and strong limitation of our greenhouse gas emissions). This figure is 41 days a year for cities because of the ICU phenomenon. Higher mortality in cities is therefore expected due to increased exposure to high temperatures, a higher vulnerability profile of the population. Given the very high proportion of the urban population in Belgium (87%), this is undoubtedly an important factor of vulnerability that we must take into account when formulating our policies. The links between health, environment and climate change will be given particular attention in the context of the revision of the National Environment-Health Action Plan (NEHAP), which should lead to the development of new adaptation actions. This issue must also be addressed from a biodiversity perspective. It is clear today that the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis are linked and that their solutions are as well. It is therefore timely and more cost-effective to address these challenges jointly. As part of Belgium's voluntary commitments in the context of the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity, a number of objectives to be achieved by these commitments relate to the redeployment of the blue and green network in and around cities in order to enhance biodiversity. The redeployment of this network will bring concrete and lasting solutions to the problems of heat islands, as well as to rising temperatures, soil permeability, carbon capture, etc. The federal government supports this initiative and will make voluntary commitments to participate in collective efforts. I am thinking, and you have mentioned, of greening and integrating biodiversity into federal land, infrastructure and buildings and using nature-based solutions, which will make our cities more resilient in the long term. These federal commitments will be priced alongside the commitments of other actors, be they regional governments, businesses or citizens. Everyone's commitments will make it possible to scale up our cities and bring many benefits to biodiversity, climate change adaptation and mitigation, air and health quality, soil permeability, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u25	Minister, if the prospects for the future are worrying, your willingness to achieve your goals is strong and positive. I thank you for the quality of your response and especially for the objectives and voluntary commitments that Belgium wants to put in place with regard to the redeployment of the blue and green network, which is very dear to me, and which is in full compliance with the respect, maintenance and development of biodiversity. We have both pointed out that these urban heat islands are important sources of concern for the future. The trio environment-health-climate change really needs to be taken into account. As noted in the reply to the previous question, these environmental, climate and health factors are put into perspective. As you rightly pointed out, minister, the vulnerability of the population and the higher mortality in the event of an increase in heatwave days. Your response and commitments are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u26	That was a very friendly reply, one might think it is still national complimentary day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u27	Minister, in February 2020, the European Commission estimated that the energy and environmental footprint of digital technology was 5 to 9% of global electricity consumption and 2% of global greenhouse gas emissions – an estimate estimated at about 4% by the Agence de la transition économique française or by the Shift Project and Green IT associations. The latter association also pointed out that the greenhouse gas emissions generated by the sector could be doubled in 2025, and the environmental impacts could be tripled. Madam Minister, I was asking you about this shortly four months ago - so I'm not teaching you anything. The very comprehensive answer you gave me then referred to our "partial view of the overall impact and rebound effect of ICT products in Belgium, both in terms of their production, distribution and use". You added that you would consider "requesting the federal government of the environment to produce an assessment of the overall impact of these products." Minister, can we know what is happening today? In addition, you announced that Belgium would be part of the European initiative. Can you inform us of the commitments in this context? Digital technology seems to be a central lever for many post-covid recovery plans – whether they are at the regional, federal or European level. However, this may further promote the risk of increasing the energy and environmental impacts of digital technology. Minister, can we know about your return to this issue of particular concern to me? Can we also know whether the issue of the energy and environmental effects of digital technology has been raised by your competent colleagues in the context of the recovery plan? If so, can you inform us about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u28	Mr Senesael, although various reflections continue, four months later, none of them take on the scope of the study to which you refer. That said, last January, the Belgian environmental sector, brought together by the Committee for the Coordination of International Environmental Policy within my administration, organised a workshop on this subject. Several high-level interventions allowed participants to look at the conclusions of the European Council Digitalisation for the benefit of the environment, including the environmental and climate challenges of the European Digital Strategy. Data centres are large consumers of energy. One of the main European Google centres is located at our home in Saint-Ghislain and the challenge is to limit the final losses, but I do not hide from you that there is still much to be done in this area. The recovery plan provides for a minimum of 20% of investments to contribute to the digital transition objective. At this stage, the focus has been on accessibility. Throughout the process, I did not fail to express our concerns about the environment. At this stage, if I have not yet had contact with my colleague, Minister Michel, I have had contact with the office of Minister De Sutter, Minister of the Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, who carries projects to develop digital infrastructure. For my part, I believe that the investment programme of the recovery plan can and should encourage and support the private sector in the transition to a more sustainable, resilient and healthy economy and society, and in this context I have made available to Secretary of State Thomas Dermine the expertise and experience of the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development. As I said, one of the thrusts of the recovery plan concerns the digital transformation of government services for which I have put some sustainable development initiatives on the table, for example the integration of ambitious sustainability criteria into the federal framework contract for purchasing and renting PCs and laptops in 2022, the energy optimization of data centres in the cloud, ecological criteria for networks, computer equipment and telephony services and, finally, sustainability criteria for smartphone purchases. In addition, for all other public procurements, whether or not they address the digital issue, I work with my colleague De Sutter to integrate sustainability elements and this work is also done with the expertise and expertise of the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. Reflections, objectives, projects, alternatives, contacts to strengthen the recovery plan: all this seems positive to me. In any case, there is still some progress to be made, some contacts to be made. I count on you and your tenacity to carry out the various objectives that are reflected in your general policy note and that support this digital transition in line with sustainable development. It's a file to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u30	Mr. President, Minister, concrete would be the most widely used substance in the world, after water. The related sectors would account for 4-8 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions and 50 per cent of global emissions from the construction sector. It should be noted that almost half of these emissions would be generated during cement production. We can add that the water used in concrete production is equivalent to 10% of the water mobilized in the global industry and that 75% of this water use occurs in areas with water supply problems. Finally, a report by the Chatham House Institute points out that urbanization, population growth and economic development could lead to an increase in global cement production and thus an increase in its associated greenhouse gas emissions. Minister, can we have your feedback on this issue? Have any initiatives been undertaken or envisaged to reduce the climate impact mentioned, particularly at European level? Have any contacts been established? Can we get information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u31	Mr President, Mr Senesael, cement production and the use of concrete in construction are an important source of global greenhouse gases. As global demand is high due to population growth and urbanization, it is likely that emissions associated with global cement production will increase in the coming years, providing several key value chains for infrastructure and buildings. However, solutions exist to limit these emissions. In Belgium, for example, emissions from cement production have followed a downward trend in recent years as a result of changes in manufacturing processes. The gradual conversion of the sector to the dry process has led in particular to a considerable reduction in the energy needed for cement production. A growing proportion of waste is also used as fuel, including a significant fraction of biomass, which has also reduced net CO2 emissions. Other technological alternatives exist or are being developed to allow for further emission reductions in the future. Finally, in the context of the development of a circular and bio-based economy, much more cement-efficient products and infrastructure will be produced in the future, working on their design and replacing part of the cement with biological resources such as wood, for example. At European level, emissions from the cement production sector are regulated under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). These emissions are therefore subject to a price since they must be covered by emission allowances whose price is expected to increase over the years, in parallel with the lowering of the emission ceiling for the whole ETS sector, as provided for in the European Directive. Through this carbon pricing system, producing companies are encouraged to improve their processes and opt for low-carbon solutions and technologies. A border adjustment mechanism will be discussed at European level this year to complement the ETS. The cement sector is often cited as one of the sectors likely to be targeted. In addition, the new European Action Plan for a Circular Economy and the European Industrial Strategy are two key elements of the European Green Pact aimed at decarbonising and modernising all the high-intensity CO2 industrial sectors, including the cement industry. Cement is one of the priority product groups identified in the Action Plan for a circular economy based on their environmental impact and circulatory potential. Cement is also one of the sectors for which the European Union has the ambition to develop new industrial processes and technologies as part of the new industrial strategy for Europe, which the European Commission is planning to update this year. The revision of the European directive on industrial emissions announced in the context of the European Green Pact is also on this year's agenda and should enable some progress to be made in promoting and supporting the transformation of this essential sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u32	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the state of affairs she has just drawn up, for the prospects and foresight that have been envisaged, in particular with regard to the assessments and technological developments. I also thank her for her concern to be part of the European Industrial Development Strategy. I think this is a path that can bring much to respect for our environment and our climate. I thank the Minister for the very comprehensive and positive nature of this response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u33	Questions No 55014879C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus and No 55014935C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u34	Minister, last year, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by about 7%. This decline is the result of containment measures, with a decrease in transport and economic activities in general. However, in December 2020, despite teleworking and the shutdown of part of the air sector, greenhouse gas emissions went up again, even exceeding the December 2019 level. Minister, five years after the Paris Agreement and a few months before COP 26, what analysis are you looking at these recent studies? What initiatives are being taken at Belgian (federal and federated) and European level to prepare for this summit? What is the timetable for preparations and decisions for Belgian and European positions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u35	Mr Bombled, we cannot deceive ourselves by thinking that, after the temporary and relatively small decline in emissions at the beginning of 2020, as a result of the measures taken in the context of the pandemic, we would be on the right track with regard to our climate ambitions. Climate change is the result of the cumulative amount of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere, which is the consequence of our way of life in recent decades. To reverse the trend, we must resolutely and creatively embark on the path of climate neutrality by 2050. At the national and European level, as you know, we support the target of a reduction of 55% by 2030. The way we organize our society and our economy after the coronavirus will therefore be crucial. We have already put the recovery plan to use to make this transition possible. With regard to the preparation of COP 26, I refer you to the recent United Nations interim report on nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement. I share the UN Secretary-General's analysis, which is based on the IPCC's scientific findings. So far, less than half of the countries representing about 30 per cent of global emissions have submitted new or updated contributions. While new contributions are slightly more ambitious than previous ones, they are far from complying with the IPCC scenario of limiting warming to 1.5°C - which would require an overall reduction of 45% from 2010 levels by 2030. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the European Union now exerts its full political weight to encourage all countries to make an ambitious contribution in line with the Paris objectives, which is submitted to it as soon as possible, by 30 July 2021 at the latest. My European colleagues and I are following these international developments very closely with a view to COP 26. You will not be surprised to learn that this issue is being addressed in all my bilateral contacts with foreign colleagues. A concrete international timetable for COP 26 preparations is expected in the coming weeks. The Bureau of the COP, CMP and CMA decided on 25 February that the sessions scheduled in Bonn will not be held in a face-to-face format. A timetable will be established for consultations and technical discussions on many issues. The European Union and, in particular, Belgium will then be able to organise themselves more concretely on the basis of this agenda. [TF0/Christophe Bombled(MR)/ ]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic398x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. The increase in CO2 emissions that has just been recorded is finally a serious warning, which shows that the acceleration of the transition to clean energy in the world is not yet quite right. If the post-corona economic rebound expected this year occurs, and in the absence of major policy change in the world's largest economies, global emissions are likely to increase in 2021. Next November, COP 26 is expected to be decisive with regard to global CO2 reduction. As you have pointed out, it will be appropriate to reaffirm the positions of the European Union and Belgium.
