ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u1	Mr Rigot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u2	Mr President, first of all, I would like to clarify my astonishment at the urgency of dealing with this issue today. Earlier, some colleagues were surprised at the slow pace of convening the Afghanistan Committee. In my turn, I am surprised in the other direction: why now hold a committee at 7 p.m. on an issue that has suddenly become urgent for everyone, and in any case for the chairman of the committee? It is a strange way of working to convene committees as well, on one point, without having any prior discussion on the subject. This subject is important, but for me it did not require the urgency as requested. I am delighted to see Mr Franken; I am sure that, in his speech, he will be able to give me the sense of this urgency. For my part, given the time and the situation, given the presence of our Secretary of State who was able to make himself available all afternoon, I will allow myself to refer to my question as it was tabled. These are very technical questions that simply await answers. They aim to know what position Europe will take in relation to this situation, in terms of relations with Belarus, but also in terms of dealing with this migration issue. Mr Secretary of State, I give you the floor. I won't be longer because I think there's no need to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u3	I can only note that a meeting is planned. I now give the floor to any group that asks for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for being here. Mr Rigot, I understand that it is a bit exciting when the country's largest party asks for Parliament to be called together during the summer recess, but we do so for good reason. We would also have liked to come together about the water shortage, because it was the biggest disaster in decades on Belgian territory, but that was stopped by your PS-Room Chair, because of course she would prefer not to have any difficult questions and could indicate the responsibility of your party. Apart from that, I asked for a meeting, not because I enjoy it so much, but because there is an urgency at the European external borders. A few weeks ago, European Ministers for the Interior convened an extra urgent JHA on which Belgium was present. I assume that Mr Mahdi was also present. This was at the request of a number of ministers from countries on the eastern border to deal with the major acute problems that exist in Estonia, Poland and Lithuania at the border with Belarus. There has been a call for European solidarity and additional aid. That is why there has been a European Council. I then asked whether it would be possible to have a meeting of the Committee on the Interior following this urgent situation at the external border of Schengen. The chairman of that committee gave a positive opinion and Mrs Tillieux also thought it was a good idea to ask Mr Mahdi. Mr Mahdi was available on Monday and that committee was therefore scheduled, but the circumstances in Afghanistan have caused this to be thrown into one big mess, together with Foreign Affairs and Defence, on which I had no questions at all, and it has been decided to convene this meeting after that meeting. Then, of course, it is late and everyone is tired and we are sitting here in an empty room and fortunately we have someone else who wants to chair the Presidency, because the other two Presidents are already gone. I thank the President for that. I can't help it. I am trying to do my job as a Member of Parliament and I am here trying to question the Secretary of State about what has been decided in that JHA and what will happen. There is talk within NATO about the weaponization of migration. How far did it get? For the first time in modern history, there is a state actor, the dictatorship of Belarus, who uses migrants as an active weapon of war to create instability in Eastern Europe, in the European Union, in the Schengen area. We've never seen that before. We have seen in the past that there are many migration problems at the external borders by, for example, people smugglers, but this is the first time a country has used them actively. It can be said that Erdogan was somewhat busy with this last year, just before corona, but it is the first time that Lukashenko says without cans or blush that this is the intention and that he does it intentionally. He has loaded planes, via Turkish Airlines and charter companies, flying in from Basra and Baghdad, among others, to drop off migrants than in Minsk with anonymous officials, police officers and white vans at the European external border. I don't know if you followed that, but I find that shocking. I find it shocking that people are being used as a weapon of war, that they are being abused in this way, and I find it particularly shocking to see Putin's hand puppet applying such practices unpunished. What are these countries doing? Estonia has declared a state of emergency and is building a wall. Ukraine has sent x tons of barbed wire to those countries, and Poland and Lithuania are building a wall. In general there are left-wing governments in power: you should not ask how far it has come, eh! I always have to think of that beautiful column by Mark Elchardus, who wrote that 'Fort Europe' is inevitable, but that we can hope that there are still drawbridges, so that we can still let people in. It is happening very quickly at the European external borders. Walls are being erected everywhere. There was a lot of criticism of President Trump's Wall, but in Europe the same thing has happened: in Ceuta and Melilla between Spain and Morocco, in Greece, in Estonia, in Lithuania, in Poland everywhere. I wonder what exactly was said at that European meeting and what we can do. I understand that this is some sort of hybrid warfare, as it is called. That's why the demand came to send 10 experts to those countries to help them. Has Belgium also put forward candidates to help? What have we done? What else can we do? I have had a number of ambassadors from these NATO countries on the line: this is, of course, a very difficult situation. That is why I have tried to fulfil my parliamentary duty, Mr Rigot, and that is why we are sitting together at the moment. I was allowed to do so in a different way or at another time, but I am not in control of it any more than the President does.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u5	This is a rather rare fact, but I must admit that I fully agree with part of Mr Franken's speech. It is indeed shameful and rather disgusting to use human beings as weapons in conflicts. It is not just Belarus that did it, we remember what Mr Erdogan did at the time. That is where I would be less in agreement with you on the usefulness of the pact with Turkey or rather on the need to evaluate it. In any case, regimes that use human beings for political purposes show how they view human beings in their countries. I've heard a lot about this blackmail. I fully agree with you. It is true that I would also like to hear from the government that despite this blackmail, we have obligations to respect fundamental rights and the right to asylum. It should also be stressed. I also agree with you that this reminds us of the need for a European approach in solidarity. Here too, we have a margin of progress and I will be very attentive to the progress of the discussions on this subject. In 2020, 74 people applied in Lithuania from Belarus. By mid-summer there were 4,000 people, and by the end of the summer it is estimated that 10,000 people have attempted to cross the border. Do you have any details of these figures? I assume that this clarification will come after your meetings. What practical assistance has been provided to Lithuania? For having visited closed centres, there are often people from Belarus who are "dublinated", especially towards Poland or Lithuania. Will these people still be sent back in the light of the current difficulties of these countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed being blackmailed. I also described it in a press release. It is a form of hybrid warfare in which people and illegal migration are used against Europe. One of our greatest weaknesses is that of Europe's external borders, which are as leaky as a sieve. It's not the first time this has happened. I myself made a journey to the Turkish-Greek border and I saw Erdogan using illegal migrants as a real weapon against Europe in very weak and very difficult situations. I can only describe the situation there as a real war situation. Fortunately, things did not get any further out of hand, but it was a very poignant situation. Several countries have learned lessons from this. Unfortunately, the European Union itself has not learned any lessons from it, but many neighbouring countries of the European Union have seen this weakness and have seen that the European Union has done nothing about it. For example, Morocco has actually blackmailed the European Union and, more specifically, Spain, or at least wanted to blackmail it, by encouraging many migrants, as if they were beasts heading for Ceuta, the Spanish enclave. Once again, illegal migrants were used as a human weapon against the European Union. Colleagues, is it a surprise that there is another country, in this case Belarus, which applies the same technique when it sees that there is no adequate response from the European Union? Belarus is now doing exactly the same thing. The only correct answer we can give is at last to strengthen those European external borders, to ensure that this illegal migration can no longer be used against us. We can do this in many different ways. The most obvious is to provide Lithuania with the correct support as soon as possible. I am not talking about saying that it is not a problem, that we will accept them, that we will provide shelter with European solidarity and with European taxpayers' money. After all, Belarus will simply be given what it wants. We'll be weakened. They'll make sure it hurts in our wallet. We must, as Poland has already done, send additional border guards and ensure that the necessary financial and material resources, in this case very important, are made available to strengthen the border there, in order, among other things, to strengthen Frontex there. However, it will not help simply to place additional border guards there, to strengthen Frontex, if their task is reduced to registering anyone entering the European Union illegally. Then, of course, there is no point in having officials who simply have to fill out paperwork instead of border guards who can and can do their job. That is why it is very important that we finally close the European external borders to all forms of illegal migration, whether from war regions or from Belarus, Morocco or Turkey. Those external borders need to be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost a year since the citizens of Belarus moved to the ballot box. Since then, every bit of hope for the restoration of democracy has been dead and buried. We certainly need to consider that. The European Union's decision to impose sanctions was therefore only justified. The response of the Lukashenko regime is astonishing. Migrants and refugees are being instrumentalised for political purposes. They are picked up by planes from the Belarusian regime in their home country with the promise of a better life in Europe, but then these people are literally driven out of Belarus, across the border, towards the European Union. Lithuania and Poland are affected by a large influx of illegal migrants, as colleagues have said, and these countries are taking drastic measures. For example, the Lithuanian Parliament approved a package of measures of EUR 150 million, just to better protect the border. The most striking measure is the construction of a fence between the two countries. Lithuania would also pushbacks. The UN Refugee Organisation and the Red Cross have already expressed their concerns about this. With us too, the question arises as to whether this is acceptable. Mr Secretary of State, how is it ensured from the EU that Lithuania respects human rights? In the meantime, Poland is also taking additional measures to better monitor the border with Belarus. Poland has, among other things, rolled barbed wire along the border and sends 900 extra soldiers to substone the border posts. The EU has now strongly condemned Belarus's strategy, which makes sense. EU Interior Ministers also agreed to strengthen the EU external border together. It was also decided to provide additional border guards and money, if necessary, to stop migratory flows. It is good news that the number of migrants crossing the border illegally seems to be decreasing. One of the reasons for this is apparently that the Iraqi aviation authorities have removed all passenger flights to Belarus. Iraq has also picked up a number of its citizens from Belarus. In any case, it is good to note that such cooperation with the Iraqi authorities is possible. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any figures on the number of applications for international protection already made in this context in the border region between Belarus and Lithuania and Poland? The Dutch Secretary of State, Mrs Broekers-Knol, has meanwhile announced that her government is sending 500 bunk beds, 2,000 blankets and 500 clothing containers to Lithuania to help. The Dutch Government is also investigating how it can help Lithuania. Which brings me to my questions. What can our country do? Will Belgium also provide material support? If so, which one? Are there Belgian experts at the disposal of Frontex and the European Agency for Asylum? Can you give a full overview of the support provided by Belgium? The helpful attitude of the Iraqi authorities shows that cooperation with the countries of origin also pays off. It therefore seems necessary for the EU to intensify cooperation with these countries so that illegal migration routes can be stopped. Will you continue to do so at European level? What discussions may already be taking place in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware of the repression against innocent citizens of the regime in Belarus. In response to European criticism, the regime started consciously promoting migration flows from Belarus to Lithuania in June. It caused a migration crisis at the Lithuanian borders. On 2 July Lithuania declared a state of emergency. The European Union responded with a declaration rejecting the instrumentalisation of migration. Frontex and EASO came to the scene to provide assistance. Nor will new sanctions be excluded. The response of the EU and its Member States came quickly. Thanks to political, financial, operational and diplomatic efforts, the situation at the border has now stabilised. Finally, I attended an informal meeting of the 27 Ministers of the Interior, which was convened as a matter of urgency on 18 August, to discuss the issue in question. At this meeting, which allowed for an analysis of the situation, future forecasts and the main current challenges, the Member States of the European Union agreed to step up logistical support to these countries and to dispatch additional experts, officers and equipment to them. To date, no requests have been made to Belgium in the framework of Frontex and EASO, due to the floods that hit our country in the early summer. If our country has not provided operational support, it has, however, expressed its readiness to consider any future requests. Mr Rigot, there is a need to distinguish between requests for international protection and illegal arrivals in the Schengen area. Not all arrivals want to apply for international protection from Poland, Latvia or Lithuania. It should be noted that the figures for asylum applications are the general figures and not those related to Belarus. Thus, in Lithuania, until 22 August, there were 4,137 irregular arrivals and in Belarus, 1,996. In Poland, there were 2,781 applications for international protection against 456 in Latvia. As far as the European Council is concerned, I promised Lithuania the Belgian support during the special Council on Belarus. The only operational question received by Belgium was about beds, which we could not deliver because of our water shortage. Nor have we received any specific questions from the European agencies such as Frontex and EASO. They have the situation well under control. As far as your last question is concerned, according to my information, the human rights and rights of applicants for international protection are well respected. The Lithuanian and Latvian authorities have requested the support of the European agencies – Frontex, Europol, EASO – in order to control the situation on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u9	Thank you for your answers, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, we need European solidarity with the countries that are at the borders of Europe, which welcome the first arrivals: Italy, Greece and Spain. It certainly also needs to be with the other countries of first entry if necessary. This seems to be the case since Lithuania has called on Europe to be supported. This shows the need for a common, responsible European asylum policy that guarantees solidarity between countries with regard to applicants. I agree with Messrs. Franken and Moutquin, we must put an end to this shameful use of human beings as a means of pressure, as a weapon of war. On the other hand, I will not have the same reading of the causes and I will not have the same option to present to you. For me, Europe has a huge responsibility. When it sends a message that immigration is a real problem or even a threat to its economy and functioning, migrants can then become a means of pressure for regimes that we condemn. When the same Europe decides to outsource the management of refugees with Turkey or Libya, this Europe also gives these countries the means to exert pressure on general European policies. "If you don't make me right, I'll open the doors, and you'll have to take care of it!" Today, it is not a wall that is needed at the gates of Europe. It's a utopia as shameful as this option is. There must be no wall, there must be a common, solidarity-based, responsible migration policy where everyone plays the same role. We need a policy that is binding on each country in the same way. Legal and common migration routes are also needed. These migration routes will also be safe routes for migrants who will avoid pressure, deaths and smugglers. With this way of doing things, I think we can stop this mediocre and scandalous game that aims to treat them as weapons, as a means of pressure. That is what needs to be done in the future. Mr Secretary of State, this work cannot be done by Belgium alone, but by a common and united Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u11	I have heard a great deal from the previous speaker. Safe routes? Well, it's all right, but those Iraqis are flying in from Basra and Baghdad. They are not Iraqis who can claim a safe route because they probably won't even get asylum. That doesn't solve the problem, by the way. Refer to what we want safe routes or do not want a new Turkey deal, because then we can be blackmailed... Look, there's no such thing as an EU-White Russia deal, and yet we're being blackmailed as well, or at least they're trying to. In itself, therefore, the EU-Turkey deal has nothing to do with it. Whether there is a deal with Turkey or not, every government leader at the external borders of the European Union can try to put pressure on us. The Moroccans tried the same thing when they got crooked about Polisario because the leader of that group was in a Spanish hospital. Suddenly we got a whole stream: 1,200 border crossings in 2 days, if it weren't there anymore. Something like this can always happen, even without a deal. In fact, that has nothing to do with it. I've been hearing that little wiggle for 20 years, but that doesn't solve the problem at all. I'm just trying to find solutions, I don't have the truth, but I'm past those generalities. You too, Mr Rigot: you are a very intelligent man, you know the matter through and through. So you should know that it is not enough to say that there should be more cooperation with the European Union. It just doesn't work! There is no agreement on the distribution of asylum seekers. That will never happen: the trenches only get deeper and deeper. We may be of good will, but we are a country of compromises and of great European leaders, but I think it is going in the wrong direction. Quite specifically, Mr Mahdi, if I understand correctly, you have clearly expressed your solidarity with those countries. You indicated that we are on their side and that they can count on us. I think that's a good thing. That's what we should do. Many of these diplomatic contacts also clearly have an emotional side: they serve to show that Belgium is on the side of those countries that are now being blackmailed by dictators like Lukashenko. No word has been heard of this Protesevich or whatever the name of the man who was taken off that plane at the time. Verschunden... that shows what a gruesome regime this is about. So, Mr Mahdi, I think it's a good thing, but I think that hybrid team should include someone from Belgium, someone with field experience, the Foreign Office or the federal police. We also had a very large influx of Iraqis in 2015. We then put in a charter, a return flight to Baghdad. We have had a lot of press with that, especially over there, as a betrayal. We did. We have also launched an international dispatch campaign on social media in their language, Arabic and Kurdish. The CGVS has also adapted its protection policy and we have communicated it very clearly. Those three things happened to us at the time about the Iraqi crisis. Perhaps it is possible to give this in international fora as the path to follow. Perhaps then one can continue to knock on the door of Belgium to get inspiration. I'll leave you to it, because apparently you're not very interested, and I've seen you go to Terzoe as well. I wish you every success. Thank you very much for being here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u12	I didn't appreciate that last one. I am sitting here working on a number of files on Belgian Afghans who are still on the scene. I'm trying to do as much as I can at the same time and be here in the meantime. I might as well have found an excuse to go to The Journal. I didn't. As you know, I said the first time in plenary that Parliament is leading the way at TV studios. Only sometimes there are very urgent files, which I have to look at on my cell phone every now and then. You also occasionally go outside, even for certain performances. I'm not saying anything about that. I would appreciate it if you would respect me if I could do all sorts of things at the same time. It can be very spicy sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u13	Mr. Mahdi, don't get excited. I had the impression you weren't listening. I understand you have to multitask, these are busy days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u14	I might think you don't listen when you go out sometimes, but I don't think you do. A little respect, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u15	Mr Mahdi, you are a member of the government, I am a member of the parliament. You're a member of the government, and you're being questioned by the Chamber, not the other way around. Let's make that very clear. I've been asking for weeks to discuss this. I would have preferred this before the European Council. Due to circumstances, it was moved to Monday and then moved to now. I can't help but think it's so late, that's the way it is. If you're busy, I can understand that. I had the impression you weren't paying attention. But there's no problem, you're very busy, that's all. I can try to point that out, can't I? I don't see any problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u16	Let's close the incident. You have also sat in that place and know that you sometimes have to multitask. Let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic564x.u17	Mr President, I remember what my colleagues said, including Mr Francken. I don't have the solution either. No one has it. I am satisfied with the answers of the Secretary of State. He did not, however, answer my question, which Mr Francken apparently did not hear either, whether we could learn anything in the future from the fact that the Iraqis themselves went to pick up their people in Belarus, because they also do not want them to be lost here at our borders. Can we continue to cooperate with all those countries from which this migration flows, by applying the positive example of Iraq to other countries as well? I hope it's possible.
