ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u2	This proposal was adopted by the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee under Art. 76 of the Regulation. This proposal was adopted by the Social Emancipation Committee applying Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u3	In accordance with Rule 85(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee is the basis for discussion. (1844/2) In accordance with Rule 85 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee is the basis for discussion. (1844/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs Laurence Zanchetta and Sophie Rohonyi referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for being here. It is a pity that this is not a real plenary sitting, because I feel that we have already had the discussion in committee with the people who are here today. It would have been nice if the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior had been here too, because you are not the only one dealing with this problem. You are the most important, I admit, but your colleagues also have a lot of work to do. So this little scheme is a bit unfortunate. This is an important resolution and the result of a lot of work we have done together. I'd like to start with a few quotes. "The first time he hit me and kicked me was on the street. No one responded, so I normalized it. I started to make good his behavior in my head. After that, I was trapped for years." "Manless times I was beaten and raped by my husband. The dozens of complaints, the pvs were simply placed on the pile and without consequence classified." "He wanted everything to be perfect: the house, the chaste, the food, his sleep, my smile. His family had to idolize him, cheer him up, but never was it all the way he wanted it to be. No matter how hard I tried, the smallest trigger made him violent." "Physical, psychological, financial and sexual violence, I've been through it all. If only I could adjust as hard as I could, I could protect the children and they wouldn't notice anything. That's what I thought. It was only after the divorce that I fully realized how those years of hell had determined them." "As soon as she had me by the throat, I thought: defend yourself, but I didn't want to hurt her. When a man hits his wife, it's in letters in the paper. So I always put my hands away in my pockets or behind my back, because a man who was abused by his wife, who would believe that?" "When he broke his wrist, when he hit my head hard, I said, "I'm sorry." Those are some of the quotes of the many victims, too many, of intra-family violence that exist today. They show how complex the problem is. Among other things Hilde Van Mieghem recently gave victims a much needed voice If you knew, perhaps looked at by all of us, a series that reflected the complexity of the problem well. No, the victims aren't always women. Even though it is something for one in five women that they unfortunately know up close, one in seven men also gets involved. The children also often share the blows, even if they do not do so directly, because no less than 170,000 children witness violence within the family every year. Some of the unsubs are working, others aren't. Well-meaning isn't always what's right, especially in divorces. The WHO is talking about a pandemic for a reason and, again, that came out very well in that series. We sometimes get stuck in the clichés of the woman with the black eye and the man as an aggressive monster, but reality is much more nuanced. Violence within the family is committed by both women and men and often comes from two sides, but the child is always in between. Due to the lack of proper research, here and there also obsolete legislation, due to a lack of prevention and the sometimes inadequate training of the police and the care sector, partner violence is unconsciously maintained, but also neighbors, family, friends and bystanders often close their eyes and adhere to the mandatory rule that one should not interfere with marriage. Often childhood traumas are inextricably linked to intra-family violence. It is not uncommon for crime, violence, drug abuse, alcohol abuse, absenteeism and suicide to be a direct consequence of all these traumas, which threatens to repeat the situation. That intergenerational spiral is a vicious circle, which we really must dare to break. Indeed, the personal and social damage caused by intra-family violence is immense and its approach requires efforts from all of us, as legislators, as well as fellow citizens, as friends, knowledge or neighbors. A theme like this is too important to let the party color play. The approach goes beyond the political levels, but also the party boundaries, and I am therefore grateful to colleagues from the advisory committee that that feeling prevailed among everyone, resulting in the present motion for a resolution. This resolution, I believe, is preparing a comprehensive approach, giving the government the tools it needs to get to work quickly and is the result of a wide-ranging debate with many experts, as it should be. That effective approach is therefore urgently needed, perhaps even more today than ever before. Corona has highlighted a lot of problems and this is one of them. Most of the measures taken on corona may have been necessary, although I do not think they have always been well-founded, but too little attention has been paid to their side effects. However, health is much more than just fighting a virus. Corona caused stress, boredom, uncertainty, loss of income, closing cafes, social isolation and an explosive increase in domestic violence. We knew that from the beginning, but it has hardly been taken into account. During the first lockdown of the corona crisis, intra-family violence increased by 50% compared to the year before. Aid organisations raised the alarm a year ago and continue to do so until today. It is therefore quite striking that the police statistics of the first lockdown have recently shown that there is no record of this. On the contrary, according to these statistics, intra-family violence would have decreased slightly during the first lockdown, which is not the case at all. We know that, but that means that the threshold for victims to go to the police and press charges is very high. That is always the case, but in these corona times the threshold is even higher. It is a pity that the government only after a year responded to the demand that the police, especially during this period, should enter proactively with those families that we know there is violence. Anyway, it's been decided now and I want to look forward positively. Intra-family violence has not started with corona and it will not end with it, so we really must do everything we can to get rid of these thresholds once and for all. Never washed a good crisis was one of Churchill's many good statements. This is one, so let us make good use of this crisis for what is ahead of us today. An important difference from previous resolutions on intra-family violence adopted in this Parliament is, in my view, the cross-party approach, the overall approach, but also the fact that for the first time, extra attention is being paid to the child as a direct or indirect victim in the story. After all, a child is always a victim in a house where there is violence. It was a bit of a fight in committee not just to let this resolution go about women, and I am grateful to colleagues that this gender fetish has been abandoned, because that does not tolerate this problem either. It is far too complex for that. We must not forget that the taboo for men who are victims is sometimes much greater. Allow me to zoom in on a few points in the resolution, without wishing to be comprehensive, which fortunately is this resolution. A first point concerns the child reflex that we want to extend to the police and the judiciary and to include in the specialized and multidisciplinary training. That is an important point. We must continue to focus on this. This also happens more and more in Flanders. That must be the first question asked in each of these cases, namely whether there are children involved in the problem and, if so, how we will at least keep them out of harm's way. A second point is to apply rapid law to intra-family violence so that complaints are dealt with quickly and effectively by the police and the courts when there is evidence. That too is important, because you heard in the quotes how often victims feel that pvs just end up in a pile. The removal of the perpetrator is an important point of attention. Today this can be done legally, but it is still being used far too little in many areas. We need to investigate the high number of dismissals with the aim of reducing them. Furthermore, we need to work on a sufficiently large range of target therapy and actual offender counselling to prevent recurrence. It may be less popular to say that, but that too is certainly important. Preventing it means working with perpetrators, at least with those who are open to it. I would like to emphasise that, because there are perpetrators who are open to this and it will never work for others. We must also have the courage to face this, because we must be able to respond appropriately to it. Roll out a scientifically validated risk assessment tool is also important. This means that we can work preventively, rather than measuring the damage afterwards, as is happening all too often today. Better information sharing can also work preventively. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure that, when an investigation is carried out in the public prosecutor's office to investigate the facts of intra-family violence, the public prosecutor also has knowledge of any pending files and previous files dealt with by the juvenile and family courts. This information must be proactively transferred to the appropriate authorities. The resolution also states that we will strive to always make use of the shared professional secrecy if children are victims of intra-family violence. I will not put it under the table that this should go a step further for me. Since the child has no voice at a young age and cannot make his own choices, I insist that silence should no longer be an option if there is an acute risk of violence or abuse. Running police pro-actively and clinging to families known for intra-family violence is a point I have just mentioned. Fortunately, the government has allowed this to enter into force since December. I hope that the evaluation will show that this has reduced the high threshold created by corona. That remains a very important point. The next point is the approach to reduce the impact of seriously addicted parents and future parents on their children. That phrase has come into the coalition agreement and, as I know, it wasn't easy to get that into it. However, it is something I have been working on for a very long time, a taboo that really needs to be killed. It is no secret that our party has already worked out proposals to enable addicted pregnant mothers who continue to refuse any help, even if they are offered with urgency, to undergo forced admission to rehab during pregnancy. In this way, we can prevent a child from being born as a drug baby, with all the consequences associated with it. Again, all these things are about prevention. It is so important that we continue to recognise that the figures that we are receiving today are virtually non-policy-making. This will always lead to waiting lists if we do not intervene earlier and prevent people from remaining in irreparable damage. I'm sorry, but when it comes to kids, this is still a sensitive issue for me. These were some important points. We have agreed unanimously that the issues I have listed, but also others, are necessary and urgent. The bottom line, Madam Secretary of State and your unfortunately absent colleague, is that this should also be done effectively. The recommendations are pure and substantiated by experts. I hope that this will lead to concrete action by the government as soon as possible. In our group you can always find a partner on this issue. Again, there is no opposition or majority story here. So, now without detours get to work! What we have here today is a well-founded guide to tackling intra-family violence over policy powers. It is an approach that can save people, an approach that can save children, an approach that simply should have been there, but should certainly be there tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the home remains the most dangerous place for women. More than 50 per cent of women who die of murder are murdered by a violent spouse or former spouse. This observation is made by the United Nations, but it is mainly made by the very many women at home in Belgium and all over the world. Today we are gathered to talk about domestic violence in a particularly painful week. In less than a week in Belgium, two women died murdered by their spouse. Domestic violence is present in one out of every three homes, taking different forms to lead, in extreme cases, to the death of the victims. It was therefore important for our opinion committee to choose to look at this specific form of violence, namely domestic violence, and I would like to welcome this choice. I have just said that the home remains the most dangerous place for women, but does domestic violence only affect women? No, of course not. Domestic violence does not only affect women, but affects them disproportionately. To fail to recognize this fact makes us miss out on the issue and will not allow us to respond to the multiple emergencies that these violence pose to the victims. There are many types of violence against women, which must be recalled over and over again. Violence against women and girls is one of the most widespread, persistent and devastating human rights abuses in the world. Domestic violence is one of its facets, probably the most hidden, the most deadly, the most intimately experienced. Domestic violence must be considered for what it is: gender-based violence, that is, violence against women because they are women and disproportionately affecting women. Indeed, women suffer disproportionately from domestic violence. And it's not an accident or a chance. Violence against women in general is structurally linked to a historical organization of society based on the domination and discrimination of women by men. Violence in the intimate sphere is the manifestation of unequal power relations between women and men. While women suffer disproportionately from domestic violence, they are not the only victims. Another audience is also extremely vulnerable: children. Children are the direct or indirect victims of domestic violence. They are also subjected to beatings, sexual violence and other bodily harm. Children are therefore sometimes, and far too often, the direct victims of domestic violence. But they are also, and many are, indirect victims. Every time they see their parent - and essentially their mom - being insulted, diminished, humiliated, that's what they take with them over their entire life course. We know that when you have experienced violence as a witness, you will tend to wear it and sometimes reproduce it throughout your life. What are we talking about when we talk about domestic violence? Of course, we are talking about physical violence. Violence is the most definitive form, sometimes up to murder or femicide. Femicides are, we know, sometimes accompanied by infanticides. As I said this week alone, there have been two new femicides in Belgium, which has raised the figure to 11 since the beginning of 2021. At this rate, we will reach more than 40 women murdered by their spouses before the end of the year. But there are also six infanticides to be deplored, directly related to femicides. But of course, domestic violence is not limited to physical violence. It is also a matter of psychological and/or verbal violence. It is the most common and difficult form of violence in a couple. These are the hurtful words, the climate of insecurity and control, the daily humiliations. Such violence takes place either live or remotely. Because now, thanks to our small mobile phones, we never have peace. Even when we think we can get out, go find refuge elsewhere, psychological control continues. There is also sexual violence, including marital rape, which feminists have had so much difficulty in gaining recognition for. Finally, it is economic violence: the control by the spouse of the family's resources, which leaves the woman without own resources and therefore without resources to be able to get out of the infernal circle of violence. Regardless of their form, the stakes of power and control lie at the centre of domestic violence, which explains why in some cases, when women seek to escape domination and control, such violence can lead to murder. Domestic violence doesn't date back to yesterday. Violence against women, including domestic violence, exists everywhere and has probably existed in all places and at all times. It is quite recent that the institutions are concerned about this. Feminist fighting has put domestic violence on the political agenda. Private is political, feminists say since the 1960s. Little by little, they made themselves heard. Thanks to them, things have changed. Important international frameworks have been successful in combating discrimination and violence against women. A key step was obviously the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Our parliamentary work is therefore part of a growing awareness of this scourge. The work of our opinion committee has been done in a very particular context, that of the covid crisis, but not only. The hearings started before it and already pointed to a form of hindsight. Several panellists highlighted the decline in the protection of women's rights globally and in Europe. The number of leaders in European countries who allow themselves to question women's rights must alert us. It is known that Turkey's latest decision to leave the Istanbul Convention is a very bad signal. The context of our work was already special before the covid crisis. Then, the health crisis came and we know that it blew up violence against women and reduced the stakes of equality. Data and reports show that all types of violence against women and girls and domestic violence in particular have increased. In Brussels alone, in April 2020, calls to the emergency number tripled and requests for accommodation increased by 250%. This drastic decline in rights in these covid periods sadly echoes a famous phrase by Simone de Beauvoir, who already told us in the 1960s: "Never forget that it will be enough for an economic, political or religious crisis to challenge women's rights. These rights are never acquired." We can only see today. While domestic violence against women has exploded, it is also the case with children. All actors in the field children have noted and alerted to an increase in child abuse during this crisis, in addition to all other violations of their human rights. The context of our work is therefore very specific. The importance of this process must therefore be stressed. Parliament as a whole is putting domestic violence on the political agenda and all political families have been able to debate and agree on several areas. I will not take them all back here, but I will remind you that we have had very interesting hearings which started the work as early as January. But we also had the first GREVIO report released in 2020, which fed our parliamentary work. The hearings and GREVIO highlight challenges and challenges at every stage of the experience and management of domestic violence. I'll accentuate some of them. First of all, the lack of data and the relative invisibility of gender-based violence, which is due in particular to a very large under-representation of violence first but also a lack of gender-specific statistics, both by the police and by prosecutors. Another key element, highlighted by experts and experts, is the need to better address direct and indirect violence against children. We must have this reflex. Every time you experience domestic violence, you have to ask yourself where the children are. The issue of follow-up to complaints has also been systematically highlighted. Indeed, more than half of the cases are now closed. It's an unbearable signal for women. When some have had the courage to go so far as to file a complaint, it does not end. What message is given to other women? Why tell them: "Have this courage! " Get out, expose yourself, take risks for yourself and your children!" If, in any case, justice is not done? Another challenge, of course, is the lack of resources for the care of women and children who are victims of violence. There is very little enforcement of the Temporary Ban on Residence Act. Shelters are expensive and full. Civil society is not sufficiently supported in this regard despite its crucial role in this area; this has been highlighted in the hearings. We still have to salute them today for the field work they have been doing for decades, in the care of women and children in sometimes untenable situations. A cross-cutting issue was also highlighted. It is about the institutional complexity of our dear and beautiful country, and the importance of having a strong and well-identified coordinating body. It is therefore necessary to adequately support our Institute for Gender Equality in its role of coordination, monitoring and policy support. This institute is doing a huge job of documenting us and our governments. It must be supported to the extent of its missions. One dimension that should be further developed is the approach to perpetrators of violence. It is obvious that our means and our attention must be directed towards the victims, but behind each victim there is a executioner, and at some point we will also have to worry about the communication towards these executioners. How to accompany these executioners, not to make life easier for them, but to ensure that they stop their toxic behaviour? A final dimension that has been updated by the hearings and GREVIO and which I would like to stress because it particularly challenges us as environmentalists is the lack of an intersectional vision of our processes to combat domestic violence. As we know, all women, and this is also true of children, are not equal in the face of violence. Some are more invisible than others and have more difficulties in the use of their rights. The hearings put it forward, our policies are too based on the image of white, heterosexual and non-disabled women and therefore pay too little attention to elderly, disabled, transsexual, lesbian, bisexual or migrant women. We do know that. How will a woman who is invisibly or simply does not have recognition go to get help? It's possible, but she's not going to feel right to do it. They are therefore particularly exposed. It is all these concerns, and others that will surely be highlighted by other colleagues this afternoon, that we have collectively decided to translate into a resolution that is now addressed to the government. This resolution is rich and we look forward to its completion today. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that beyond the content of this resolution, which deals with the various aspects of the problem, the very fact of putting domestic violence on the political agenda in this way is to be welcomed. I think that all the experts and experts we have heard welcomed the fact that domestic violence is now truly a political interest as such. This does not mean that Parliament has not been concerned about this subject before, but the fact that we all meet together in an opinion committee and make recommendations is to be welcomed. I come back to what Simone de Beauvoir already told us in the 1960s: "Stay vigilant!" We'll always have to be vigilant and that's what we've done. We have remained vigilant and vigilant with our male colleagues, who of course bear this concern with us. I would also like to pay tribute to the work of Mrs Jiroflée, who has had to orchestrate this vigilance which has sometimes gone in every direction. We wanted to be exhaustive. So it was a great job on the part of our president. Finally, I would like to welcome the presence among us of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, as the previous colleague did. Of course, it's not a surprise. You were the Member of Parliament Ecolo-Groen with Mrs Soors who participated, together with the other groups, in the launch of this process but it is important to have you with us today. Your Government had announced in its majority agreement that combating violence against women in general and domestic violence would be a priority. You have already written it in your policy note. It is really important today that the government be heard. The situation is increasingly critical and will have to be taken very seriously. You have already worked on a plan to combat violence in the co-vid period, and it is known that you will lead to a new national plan to combat violence against women and domestic violence. It is important that our resolution be successful today because we expect each of our recommendations to appear in your plan. I hope you can come and present it in committee. Colleagues, the work does not stop with this resolution. It's just starting and it's never gonna be over. I hope that we can remain united in the fight against violence against women in general and domestic violence in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u6	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about it again and again, to take action over and over again, because domestic violence is a scourge against which we must continue to fight, and we must constantly highlight it through education, prevention and awareness-raising, but also through actions to accompany and protect victims, actions to combat impunity for the acts committed, and actions to enable adequate follow-up of perpetrators of violence and thus avoid recurrence. That is why our group from the beginning of the legislature, like others, has made this a priority within the Social Emancipation Committee. We have therefore taken the time to hear the terrain in all its dimensions, thanks to a series of hearings conducted last year. These hearings highlighted the strength of our policy to combat domestic violence, but above all its weaknesses and the need to remedy them effectively and quickly with a series of interesting proposals, which we have tried to transpose into the text that is now on our benches. We all know the numbers of domestic violence. Yet every time we say them, they're cold in the back. But, again and again, it is possible to highlight the extent of the problem that the current situation reminds us of every day. In our country, approximately 45,000 complaints of domestic violence are filed annually. And that figure would represent only a third of the facts committed because of this famous dark number that we must also try to address. While a zero-tolerance policy on domestic violence is supposed to have been applied for several years now, 70% of cases opened by the courts still remain closed, as was mentioned at the hearings. Such violence is manifested in various forms. They are not only physical, they are visible - like physical violence - or not: from remonstrations to the control of the victim's movements, facilitated by everyday devices, from psychological violence to beatings directly on the body, with consequences in all dramatic and sometimes fatal cases, as the news reminds us. The femicide has thus taken its place in our vocabulary: 24 femicides were reported in the press in 2019, and there are already 11 by 2021. And that not to mention all the others perpetrated in deafening silence, with the successive confinements that were imposed during this crisis of the covid-19 to women but also to some men, it is always good to remind it, even if it does not always please. All the actors on the ground are ensuring that this violence has been exacerbated. Listening lines have been stormed. This co-habitation has in some cases been related to a real kidnapping without possible escape for the victims. Indeed, one dares to imagine the hell experienced by these thousands of women confined to those who abuse them, who brutalize them, who traumatize them every day. In four out of ten cases, there were also children who were victims of violence or spectators of such violence with the traumatic consequences that can be imagined. Various measures have been taken in recent months. I am thinking, for example, of the task force set up by Wallonia, the Wallonia-Brussels federation, the Brussels Region and the COCOF to ensure in particular that the victims can move away from their homes by having adequate emergency reception and accommodation places. I am also thinking of the resolution I put on behalf of my group, which has made it possible to make pharmacies, relay points for victims of violence. They can thus obtain support, specific information, such as telephone numbers of helplines or which can be directed to competent support structures or even to the police. Finally, I am thinking of the Federal Action Plan to Combat Gender and Domestic Violence following the second wave of covid-19, approved last November, involving all levels of power and field associations, including a strengthening of the cat line for the victims, but also the creation of a cat for the authors, a communication to raise public awareness and guidelines calling for a proactive attitude of the police and justice. Before coming to the heart of the text that we are debating today, I would like to thank Mrs Jiroflée, but also the secretary of our committee, for the important work that has been done, for the listening and the exchanges that we have had throughout the last few months. It is also a very strong signal to devote a specific plenary meeting today to the discussion of this text, to this major issue of domestic violence. This text and the demands made therein are, in fact, aimed at making combating domestic violence a priority for this Government. To do so, it will be essential in the policy to address all types of domestic violence — physical, psychological, economic — but also online violence, which increasingly exists. This policy should be integrated and multidisciplinary, involving all levels of government and field associations. It will have to ensure the same protection for all victims, as my colleague mentioned, including the children - the famous spectators. It will be essential to pay particular attention to vulnerable audiences by recognizing the intersectional nature of such violence, in line with the definition contained in the Istanbul Convention, which is the first legally binding instrument at European level in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. It is precisely within this framework that our text forms part of today's debate. On the other hand, among the many points raised during our hearings, it still appears today that some police services - I am quite sure - continue not to give victims the reception they need and that, too often, prosecutors do not have sufficient means to prosecute this type of offence. In too many cases, there continues to be a lack of awareness of the risk of recidivism among those who have been beaten. At the heart of this text, therefore, is the improvement of the registration of complaints and their prompt follow-up, the necessary strengthening of synergies and collaborations between the justice system, the police, hospitals, institutions and, above all, actors on the ground, in particular in the field of violence against children, and the continuation of trainings in all sectors in contact with victims and also with perpetrators within a multidisciplinary framework, which has already been said many times, as called for at the hearings. These are essential elements for improving the prevention of situations at risk, the care and support of victims. Another important point that we would like to see included in this text is the ability to review and evaluate projects in the area of victim protection. The law on removal from the home, the anti-harassment alarm and, in terms of multidisciplinary support, the Family Justice Centers are being considered, projects which, if necessary, will have to be developed and strengthened taking into account the specific realities of the provinces and regions. It is also important for us to ensure that recourse to criminal mediation is not systematic and, in any case, is done in the interests and rights of the victims, because of the well-known systematic relationship of domination between the perpetrator and the victim, since the victim does not necessarily want to be side by side with his executioner in the same room. Just as it is essential that the sharing of professional secrecy be done if possible with the consent of the victim and at least in the interests of the parties. Finally, it is clear that in the policies to be implemented, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men must be seen as the government's partner and that the necessary resources must be allocated to carry out its research, data collection and training tasks. The field associations and specialized services that are confronted with this complex reality of domestic violence must continue to be recognized and supported so that we can continue to benefit from their expertise, which they have demonstrated to us in our numerous hearings; and more importantly, it is an expertise that will have to be taken into account in the policies that are being carried out. In the near future, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities will have to draw up, together with her other government colleagues, the guidelines for a new plan, a national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence. We look forward to it, and of course we hope that the recommendations, the important demands made today, can be heard and taken into account in the development of this plan. Finally, for my group, it is more important than ever to take full account of the seriousness of the violations of the rights, lives, health, safety and dignity of women represented by such violence; and that this Government simply make the fight against domestic violence, which absolutely cannot be justified, a real priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this may be an important day to finally take more concrete initiatives, in an attempt to stop intra-family violence, or at least to tackle it in a serious way. Family violence is unfortunately a harsh reality in many families. It occurs in all layers of the population and within all cultures. Poor or rich, young or old, highly or low-educated, it is the most extensive form of violence in our society. The statistics on intra-family violence are hallucinating. The figures we received during the detailed discussion of this resolution clearly show that the problem urgently needs to be tackled in a serious and full manner, especially when we know that there is a great deal of human and, above all, child suffering behind these high figures. Many women and men have to deal with violence, in different forms, within the family. They are all traumatic experiences with often far-reaching physical and psychological consequences. These negative consequences may carry with them all their lives. Although the victim often does not dare to speak about it, it is very important to be able to provide the right help as soon as possible. It is a sad problem for the partners involved, but especially for the children. This is a serious, particularly negative life experience for them, which they often carry with them throughout their lives. What also hurts is that children confronted with intra-family violence are often abandoned. With this resolution, I hope that children will be better protected. That is absolutely necessary, because they are the most vulnerable and cannot defend themselves sufficiently. For a long time there has been far too little attention paid to this issue by the Justice and Police Department, but thanks to various national and international studies intra-family violence in all its aspects is fortunately receiving much more policy attention, both nationally and internationally. I refer to the Council of Europe, the Istanbul Treaty, the Lisbon Treaty, the Stockholm Programme, European Parliament resolutions and so on. Fortunately, the persistent taboo atmosphere surrounding this phenomenon is falling sharply. Parliament, too, finally wants to pay particular attention to this today. Here is a resolution which is the result of good cooperation in the Emancipation Committee, where we have worked constructively with all parties and achieved a unanimous result. Our group can only welcome that. Intra-family violence is a serious and often underestimated problem in our society, a problem that has many dimensions. I say clearly that it is a serious and underestimated problem, which this resolution will finally give priority to. At least that will be the case provided that the responsible policy makers take this resolution seriously and also want and will give absolute priority to it, each within its policy area. Unfortunately, this is not always the case today. Intra-family violence was already a significant problem for the corona crisis, but the problem has increased due to the lockdown and homework during this corona crisis. Due to the corona crisis there is a lack of daily structure and many families come into social isolation. This, combined with stress and fear, can lead to more tension in families, and unfortunately also to violence. The number of notifications has indeed increased considerably. During the first lockdown, for example, the number of calls increased by half with the helpline 1712 compared to the year before. Unfortunately, this contrasts sharply with the police figures, which fell during that period. It doesn't make any sense, but I can understand that. People simply didn't dare press charges. The reason is clear. They were forced to stay in their quarters with the guilty partner. There was no escape. They just didn't dare press charges. And what did the policy makers do? It was not until December that it was decided that the police should intervene more actively, for example by visiting families known to the police and the courts, who knew that in the past a file of intra-family violence had been pending. Why did that decision take so long? An answer to this question was never given. And why was police contact with families known to have been victims of intra-family violence in the past limited to just telephone contact? Why didn't the police go on the scene to check up on you? Since everyone had to stay in their quarters, there was a good chance that the perpetrator was in the same room as the victim. Then it goes without saying that the victim is afraid to speak. Justice has also failed, for example by not paying sufficient attention to mandatory removals of offenders and by not automatically applying the rapid right to files of intra-family violence. Victims often have to wait a long time before their files are processed in court. That is really unacceptable for this type of case. Here should be the quickest message. Another problem is the division of information between the various authorities, both federally and at Community level. I am thinking here of the police, the Justice Department, the Caws, the OCMWs, the Centers for Mental Health, all the aid organisations that deal with this issue, and so on. Too strict application of professional secrecy and the obligation of silence should not be the message here, especially when children are involved. This resolution aims to improve the sharing of information linked to digitalisation within Justice in order to simplify and increase access for victims and offenders to their files. That is entirely justified. Our group can only welcome that. Today, however, we note that even lawyers still do not have digital access to the criminal records through the highly secure channels available to them, which was put forward as a priority by the competent minister. Well, then I'm gonna have to ask myself some serious questions. How will this be achieved for the victims and perpetrators of intra-family violence who do not have those secure channels? This resolution is a step in the right direction. That is why we will support this resolution. However, there remain a number of bottlenecks, generalities and announcements that the Flemish Interest Group wishes to warn about. The national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence 2015-2019 will be evaluated and a new action plan should be developed on the basis of that evaluation. Some timing is not foreseen. Hopefully that won't be put off. When drawing up policies on the prevention, approach and follow-up of intra-family violence, particular attention is rightly called for to be paid to children who are both directly and indirectly victims of intra-family violence. How this should be done and the roadmap to be followed remains unclear. It remains with a justified but vague recommendation. Initiatives aimed at all target groups should be launched and these campaigns evaluated at the end. This will involve initiatives for workers, the broad population, the victims and telecom operators. Here again, however, there is no concreteisation, no timing. What does this mean? Who will be addressed and in what way? That is where the resolution remains vague. The law of 15 May 2012 on temporary house bans will be reviewed. We have no problem with that, but there is no timing here either, no concrete planning. The same applies to the pilot projects on the stalking alarm in Kortrijk and Ghent. In the long term, it will be sought that, when the court investigates the facts of intra-family violence, the court also has knowledge of any pending files and previous files handled by the juvenile court and/or the family court. Apart from the fact that I am asking myself why this is not possible today, there will be no concrete timing here either and the conjecture of what "in the long term" means. The specialised expertise of women's associations should be used at every stage of policy and at all levels. What does that mean in concrete terms? Which women's associations will be involved? How will that be achieved? We're not getting any clues. They're all beautiful, but general, vague announcements. We therefore hope that it will not be merely announcements, but that serious work will be done in practice. I have one last thought: the price tag of the recommendations. One of the recommendations is to ask the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities what amounts can be allocated to the general budget to combat intra-family violence. This will not be enough, because the proposed measures exceed the competence of the Secretary of State and go further, for example in the area of Home Affairs, Justice and even the Communities. Let me give you some examples. The aim is to develop a large-scale system of data collection. You're right. I hope that the relevant ministers, mainly the Ministers for the Interior and Justice, will be prepared to make sufficient funds available for this, otherwise it will not work. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men is also given an important task. Will resources be released for this purpose? In addition, the Care Centres are asked to roll out after Sexual Violence on the entire territory. The care centres are indeed doing a good job. They exist today on a small scale, mainly in Ghent, Brussels and Liège. Those rolling out all over the country will cost a lot of money. Is there any willingness on the part of the ministers concerned to finance this? Many awareness campaigns and awareness initiatives are also rightly announced, but cooking costs and many of the initiatives are not the responsibility of the federal level but of the Communities. Were there any consultations on this? Is there any willingness at Community level to make sufficient funds available for this, or will it be financed from the federal budget? I hope so, because otherwise it'll all be dead letter. Colleagues, I decide. The resolution wants to help to change this very poignant problem, but we must not be naive. Completely banning intra-family violence is an illusion. It has existed since time immemorial and will unfortunately continue to exist forever. With the resolution, our group hopes that the issue will be tackled seriously and given priority, that a comprehensive, integrated approach will really be developed between all the relevant levels of policy in the country and that a genuinely integrated and coordinated policy will finally be put in place to combat all forms of intra-family violence. The objectives are good and, of course, we can fully endorse them. However, there remain many general wordings without concrete details and timing, questions remain about the necessary budgets and questions about cooperation with the Communities and their willingness to do so. Once again, I hope that all the policy makers involved will give priority to the implementation of this important resolution. The Flemish Interest will strongly support this extremely important resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u8	Madam President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation, which results in the text currently before us. My colleague, Mr Dewulf, has just asked a few specific questions about the impact. A very important point that I do not see in the resolution is a specialised chamber with specialised magistrates in the family court and the juvenile court. In the discussion we have had we see that several times come back. In fact, many colleagues and you too, Mrs Schlitz, agreed that such a specialised court could help us greatly. After all, we find that the family courts and juvenile courts have absolutely no view on matters pending at the courthouse. They have no knowledge of it, nor have they any knowledge of it. The court is present in the family court, but has no access to the files. We also see that the time-limit for the family court to carry out its work is quite different from the time-limit for a criminal or investigating judge to do his work, since the latter are usually working on such matters for more than a year. Our group therefore calls for the creation of such a specialised chamber. I'm not just asking that question. I would like to mention Mrs Magda De Meyer, President of the Dutch Women's Council, who refers to Spain, where a special court has been set up which provides for a much more targeted approach to this issue. Ms Sylvie Lausberg, President of the Conseil des Femmes Francophones de Belgique, also cites Spain as an example with those specialised courts. I also refer to Mrs Diane Bernard, Professor of Law and Philosophy at the Université Saint-Louis, who describes a Spanish law: "Although the inscription of this law suggests it, she does more than deal with domestic violence. Under this law, specialised courts competent for civil and criminal matters for intra-family disputes could be set up. Those courts therefore have access to the complete file, allowing the judges to judge with knowledge of the case, by abandoning the idea that the civil and criminal aspects of the problem can be dealt with separately." According to this speaker, the establishment of such a court is the most important measure to be taken. I also quote Mrs Caroline Mommer, at the Brussels Bar: 'When it comes to specialised courts, the family courts are certainly already making progress. However, these courts remain civil courts, which do not take any criminal action or removal measure. This raises difficulties in the dispute over partner violence. In addition, the family courts pronounce themselves at a much shorter time than the criminal courts. The discrepancy is problematic." The presence of the parquet in the family court is certainly already a positive point, even though the parquet does not really have access to the entire file. However, it generally has at least the complaints already made in the past. The presence of the public prosecutor makes it possible to give the court a better insight. It expresses its opinion on the greater importance of the child, whose representation it assumes." According to the speaker, the family court is a good basis for assuming what exists in Belgium. However, this should be complemented by criminal law and specific training for magistrates. Mr Philippe Van Linthout, President of the Association of Research Judges, also states that the cases outlined above may be pending before the juvenile court or the family court. The investigators have no idea of these procedures at all, which makes it very difficult to assess the situation. Mrs Sandrine Bodson pointed out that there is already a kind of family parquet in Liège that deals with all the cases of partner violence. It would be an added value to bring them all together. Last but not least, and this is very good, I asked a question in the committee of 31 March 2021 about the intra-family violence that had taken place in Braine-le-Comte. The Minister had sat with you on that. He replied that more needs to be done. The unsub has to change his behavior if the rest of us want to change. We must look beyond the arsenal we already have. It's time to think about a restraining order and a room within the court that's accelerating intra-family violence cases. So the Minister of Justice is going to report it himself. I therefore hope that the amendment can be adopted today and that we can adopt a full resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, domestic violence – whether physical, sexual or psychological – causes ills with important and often serious consequences. Direct or indirect victims carry them throughout their lives. While the confinements and restrictions of liberty of the last year cannot be considered as the cause of domestic and domestic violence, these conditions of life obviously contribute to the multiplication of these facts. Indeed, in French-speaking Belgium, the telephone line "Listen to domestic violence" recorded three times as many calls a day during the first wave. In Europe, the World Health Organization saw a 60% increase in emergency calls for women victims of violence between partners in April 2020. Given these situations, there is obviously no single response, but there is a need to fight by putting in place comprehensive, cross-cutting and diverse complementary measures and arrangements that are as close to people as possible. It is for this reason that we have adopted a multidisciplinary approach during our work, in particular by encouraging strong cooperation between the various subjects concerned and by including, inter alia, key actors such as the police and the judiciary, but also by taking into account, in view of the institutional situation in the country, the matters exercised by the federated entities. As we know, awareness of the importance of an issue and public reaction require accurate data and observations. Therefore, it seemed important to us that large-scale data collection be planned in order to obtain the best possible knowledge of such violence. I am thinking in particular of the number of domestic violence which is not reported and which is called "black figure". Awareness and action also require awareness-raising among the widest possible audience, regardless of age. This proposal provides for this by means of wide-scale awareness campaigns coordinated with the federated entities. In particular, there are awareness-raising campaigns for young people and children in schools, but also in the workplace, as domestic violence does not stop at the doorstep of the victim. It is also essential to better support professionals who fight this scourge every day and who are at the side of the victims. To this end, the proposal ensures that those directly assisting victims of domestic violence receive the best basic training on an ongoing basis. Each victim is different and each particular case has a specific situation. It is therefore important that the procedures implemented in this area are geared to individual needs and expectations as far as possible. Unfortunately, during periods of confinement, we have found that not all victim assistance bodies have been able to function properly. In this context, on behalf of my MR Group, I still welcome the exceptional and difficult work that has been done. Combating domestic violence is also a success in providing opportunities for victims. This implies an economic concept. The victim's financial dependence on his/her violent partner is often emphasized in these situations. To this end, the proposal envisages information measures specifically concerning existing financial support which can be granted to victims, while still optimising the functioning of the CPAS in charge of granting such financial aid. Indeed, the service and proximity of CPAS, which also accompanies and orients victims in order to find solutions and help them effectively, are essential. In this regard, other public officials, the police, also have a crucial role to play. Especially in this period of confinement, their place in the fight against domestic violence is central. It is for this reason that we believe that in the future police offices need to be even more involved in helping and supporting victims, very concretely, by making systematic contact with those who filed complaints before or during confinement. In addition to the support of the police, optimal protection of victims will also require the sharing and digitization of information within our judicial system, so that victims can have access to their files, but also to ensure that the prosecutor's office is aware of each case already dealt with in the past or in the course of processing. In addition, the proposal envisages paying particular attention to the classifications without follow-up. This attention will provide a better understanding of what actions can still be implemented, with the aim of minimizing the number of such actions. While domestic violence affects adults and adolescents, it also has a strong impact on children who are severely affected by domestic violence due to their total dependence on parents and adults. In this context, the implementation of the evaluation of the impact of violence on children is essential. This will mean ensuring coherence between judicial and psychosocial practices with regard to perpetrators so that they are effectively monitored at the therapeutic level, with a view to being able to help children who are victims of such violence first and foremost. Following the various periods of confinement, several measures were taken, notably in the Committee on the Interior, to combat this problem. That is why an initial assessment of the measures taken is necessary. This is the case with decisions on the creation of the regional electronic index of organizations supporting victims of domestic violence, or with regard to the specific guidance protocols that have been enacted for official pharmacists, as pharmacists can be known to be real benchmarks and supports for victims. In conclusion, it is now necessary that the good cooperation that we have been able to carry out throughout our work in committee can be translated into rapid and concrete implementation of all these requests and recommendations. As I said, there is no miracle formula, but every act in this struggle against these heinous and cowardly acts can prevent repetition and often silent distress. I welcome the work of Mrs Jiroflée, who has been able to carry out this work by bringing everyone together on an extremely important topic, especially at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u10	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the present proposal for a resolution has been a long-term work, with many amendments, and we have worked very constructively across party boundaries. I would like to thank the chair of the committee for constantly calling on the members of the committee to cooperate and reach unanimity. The Committee for Social Emancipation has always been a relief when it comes to cooperation. Today, moreover, in the Committee on Health, we had to say once again that where things went badly, things are even worse and that where there is inequality, there is even more inequality due to the pandemic and the corona measures. Several countries with strict measures, such as the obligation to stay at home, saw a greater increase in partner violence and child abuse. Each Van Hoof said today that being a woman and the age, being young or old, are predisposing factors. It has been scientifically proven that the scale of intra-family violence and thus the risks are greater for women, young people and older people and that stress and infodemia or too much information and communication lead to withdrawal behaviour and to fleeing alcohol, drugs and violence. Unfortunately, this was also the case in Belgium. One in seven women in Belgium has been victims of partner violence over the past year and the helpline 1712 saw a huge increase of, 53%. Last week, the pediatricians and youth psychiatrists of the Belgian Paediatric COVID-19 Task Force circulated an open letter stating that health services are flooded with health problems, including suicide attempts, depression and anorexia, and reports of intra-family violence and abuse. We should once again pay tribute to the important Istanbul Convention. It is not for nothing that Turkey has withdrawn from that treaty. Turkey opposes women's rights and does macho politics. The reason why Turkey withdrew is because it is an enforceable treaty. This can be called directly before a court and it also contains legally binding definitions of violence against women as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women. It is also the first treaty to provide due diligence, a duty of care to prevent, investigate and punish domestic violence. The motion for a resolution builds on this with a series of very important positive measures. Allow me to highlight a number of elements, particularly those of our group. Firstly, we believe that a great deal of attention should be paid to the care and care of victims. Madam Secretary of State, you will roll care centers after sexual violence all over the territory. We consider it important to also provide local departments, so that each victim can count on accessible follow-up and treatment in a centre that is close to home or not more than an hour's drive. So I will certainly see to it that local departments on the territory are put in place. Secondly, another important aspect in the care is the reference care providers, such as the reference nurses. In fact, it is incredible that neither the hospitals nor the general practitioners make reference care providers the link with the aid, health care, the police and the magistrates. In my view, the introduction of reference care providers for the care of victims could counter and prevent the under-reporting of violence. Thirdly, care is important, but we also need tools to provide it. We would like to emphasise a number of instruments, which can easily be rolled out by the Secretary of State and other members of government during this term of office. For example, the lack of compulsory training at all levels of the police and multidisciplinary training of teachers and nurses, in which information is shared, is aberrant. However, it is possible to establish a network against intra-family violence. In my opinion, this training is a real must if we are to make the target groups I have just listed sensitive to the detection of intra-family violence. We have been complaining about other important instruments for years, in particular a uniform risk assessment tool that can be rolled out throughout the territory. It is aberrant that it is not possible at the moment to detect risks in a uniform way among offenders. This is an absolute must in the context of the therapy and counselling of offenders, but also of recurrent restrictions and the avoidance of escalation of violence. Another important instrument can be found in the workplace. The violence doesn't stop at the door, women go out to work. Well, there is far too little attention to intra-family violence at work too. I'm glad that's the case here. For example, I recently saw a poster in the hallways calling for signs of intra-family violence. Such initiatives should be put in place everywhere, so that victims can go there as well. It is also a question of providing tools for detection in the working environment. My colleague from the N-VA will be pleased that I mention the shared professional secrecy, because in my opinion this is not gold, but gold rather silver. We need to move towards shared professional secrecy and identify the bottlenecks where they already apply. It is unacceptable to remain silent, especially when it comes to children. Finally, we also consider financial independence to be an important instrument. Means must be made available to ensure that victims dare to leave the house. I believe that many women are still financially dependent on their partner and continue to suffer violence, often in the interests of their children's well-being. This financial dependence plays a very strong role. I think that we need to highlight and optimise the current financial opportunities much more, both in the operation of our own federal institutions and in the OMCWs. So much for my explanatory statement with a number of elements that we consider crucial and will follow closely. We are happy to work with the government on concrete steps to reduce intra-family violence during this period of government, and I will end by thanking all colleagues for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State, the two femicides of last week have shown once again: the fight against intra-family violence must be a top priority. We are therefore pleased that today, at last, there is a motion for a resolution on the table with concrete measures. The PVDA is asking that from before the pandemic, because even then intra-family violence was a major problem in Belgium. The many lockdowns have only made it worse. Sciensano not only gives us daily figures on the corona infections, but also keeps statistics on intra-family violence. This month, Sciensano published the results of his sixth COVID-19 health survey. The evolution of intra-family violence in our country is no less. In March 2021, as many as 6% of those questioned reported being victims of intra-family violence, compared to 1% in 2018. That is no less a sixfold increase, but that does not translate into higher returns. On the contrary, the lack of alternative reporting procedures during the lockdowns has led to even fewer victims finding their way to help. Mr Boukili's figures, requested from the Minister for the Interior, show that the rate of return for the first half of 2020 is significantly lower than in the previous year. This shows that in times of lockdown there are too few accessible ways to report violence or complain. The possibility to report online and the additional chat service with the police are not too early. The PVDA therefore asks that this temporary provision should continue to exist even after the corona crisis. That could increase the report rate and reduce the dark number. A crisis can be a good school. It can provide good ideas for measures that can reduce a problem even in normal times. The fact that lockdowns without adequate flanking policies lead to an increase in intra-family violence was actually written in the stars. It is therefore sad that policy is acting so slowly. It is not that we have not had a chance to take the necessary measures quickly. The PVDA submitted a proposal of resolution one month after the start of the first lockdown with measures to better protect women during the corona crisis, including in the area of intrafamilial violence, but that proposal was voted down bluntly. Colleagues, you often boast that you want to work together across party boundaries on issues such as intra-family violence. However, voting away our resolution was an example in which this cooperation did not take place. When it comes to tackling an urgent problem and approving urgent solutions, you fail. There can be no doubt that intra-family violence was an urgent problem during the corona crisis. The resolution before us today is therefore a step in the right direction. It is moving towards a transversal approach, which is important. We can only welcome that. Nevertheless, we see the resolution as only the first of many steps in the fight against a deeply rooted problem. Many measures can still be extended, both in terms of content and time. However transversal the resolution may be, it does not contain one thing, namely tackling intra-family violence in the socio-economic field. The resolution rightly states that women are particularly affected by intra-family violence. It would therefore be logical to strengthen the socio-economic position of women in a structural manner, in order to remove them from the financial dependence of their partners. Women are often economically weaker than men. They often work in low-wage sectors and often work part-time. Moreover, the corona crisis has hit them extremely hard on the labour market. The Brussels Council on Equality between Men and Women announced in a report the day before yesterday that the pandemic is certainly slowing down gender equality in the labour market by a generation. The worse socio-economic position of women makes them more financially dependent on their partner, contributing to unequal power relations within the couple. This makes women particularly vulnerable to be the victims of intra-family violence. Moreover, this financial dependence makes it more difficult for victims to escape a violent context. Take the kids away from a violent partner when you only have a minimum wage or a part-time job. It is therefore a missed opportunity for the majority to vote against the PVDA amendment to strengthen the socio-economic position of women in the fight against intra-family violence. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you don't want to hear it, but intra-family violence cannot be dealt with properly without socio-economic investment, for example by raising the minimum wage to 14 euros gross or by raising all benefits to above the European poverty line. Measures must also be taken to reverse the decline in the traditional role patterns in the distribution of paid and domestic labour as a result of the corona crisis. I would also like to express my indignation at the fact that the majority decided at the last minute to remove the issue of tackling intra-family violence in sans paper. I find that particularly painful because we know that these are people in an extra vulnerable position. It is not because these people do not have the right to vote that they do not have the right to protection. In our opinion, every victim deserves help, regardless of whether or not the victim has papers. The victim doesn't have to be alone. Moreover, this is also endorsed by Belgium in the Council of Europe Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are there to condemn Turkey when that country leaves the Istanbul Convention, a just condemnation, but at the same time you do not apply the treaty here in Belgium. The new GREVIO report is therefore not easy for Belgium, and that is more than right. It is high time that Belgium put the Istanbul Convention into practice in all its aspects. We do not get there by immediately carrying out some elements of it and leaving the rest on its course. The Vivaldi government and Parliament seem to be very good in things. Since the beginning of this legislature, I have heard a whole series of fantastic promises, grand plans and many fine words in the media about tackling intra-family violence. In practice, however, it is far too slow. We have been working in the Chamber for over a year and a half on intra-family violence. In the time needed to complete a resolution, the problem multiplied. The worst part is that this shouldn't have happened like this. With the political will to address this priority, without delays and endless discussions on the regulation of the work, we could certainly have shortened this process by one year. I note, however, that the majority is not really aware of this. Some of you are on the market with the fact that you've been working on violence against women for 20 years. In fact, you cannot be proud of that, because the situation has only deteriorated. Beautiful words are not enough, we must move forward. I am thinking today of the 11 women who have been murdered since the beginning of this year. They were killed because they were women, in most cases by their partner, ex-partner or a family member. It concerns Ahlam from Liège, 28 years old, a woman of 43 from Leopoldsburg who could not be identified, Nicole from Lier, 64 years old, Marga from Weltenraedt, 68 years old, Pascale from Lanaken, 55 years old, Jana from Ghent, 18 years old, Cennet from Balen, 41 years old, Agnes from Ghlin, 57 years old, Cindy from Petit-Roeulx, 36 years old and last week Muriel from Couvin, 55 years old. On Sunday, just three days later, Mariana from Rochefort was murdered, a 25-year-old woman. This year 11 women were the victims of femicide and 6 children of infanticide. We say: not one more, pas un de plus, ni una más. The rate at which women are killed by their partner, their ex-partner or a family member is now half higher than last year. That's extremely disturbing. It is all the worse because we know that many of these women had already raised the alarm because of intra-family violence. However, they were not sufficiently helped and protected by the government. However, an effective approach to intra-family violence is crucial to prevent femicide. It's not that there was no plan, no matter how inadequate it may be. In November 2020, the government announced a federal action plan against gender-based violence during the second lockdown. Five months later, as the competent Secretary of State, you yourself found that not much of that had come into your home, and on the occasion of the eighth femicide, you called a crisis meeting last month with your colleagues from the Interior and Justice Department. That was announced in the media. Afterwards, a complete radio silence followed. Through civil society, we received a press release, but we did not get much better information from it. When I asked you before the Easter holiday in committee what exactly would change after the crisis talks, I got a repeat of the same abstract long-term promises you made in November when you announced your plan. So we still have the idea of whether the plan will be better implemented by this government, which has always said that combating intra-family violence should be a priority, and that there would be a decisive response. With the resolution before us, we have a wide range of concrete measures in the fight against intra-family violence, and we fully support it. But above all, we call for action, not words. It's got to go! A good resolution that is collecting dust, that does no good to anyone. I call on the government, in particular, to make sufficient funds available for implementation. There are a lot of strong measures in this resolution, but without proper budgets they will remain dead letter. It is not possible to combat intra-family violence without spending money. We will insist on that. It's high time for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, from 28 January 2020 to 6 July 2020, the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation organised hearings on the subject of intra-family violence, in particular against women and children. You will not be surprised that the approach and prevention of gender-based violence is close to the heart of my colleague, Goedele Liekens. Goedele followed this theme within the Advisory Committee. I had her on the phone just now, and I probably don't have to tell you that she would have liked to be here. Before Goedele Liekens and the other members of the Advisory Committee had recorded the theme in those hearings, they obviously had no idea what was coming to us from 13 March 2020: a lockdown, where each family, each single, each of us was obliged to stay home in her or his own quarters. For some, that seemed very cozy, but we saw the numbers of intra-family violence rising. Right now, we're in a third lockdown. "Record number of calls about child abuse and partner violence at helpline 1712', headlined newspapers on 9 March 2021. I too, as mayor, see an increase in the number of cases of partner violence on the ground. It is therefore extremely important that today we can send out a very strong signal against intra-family violence. This text is the result of cooperation across party boundaries and was approved by all parties in the Advisory Committee. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all my fellow Members for this. The motion for a resolution before us today is about a socially unacceptable problem, which has always been there and which, unfortunately, has been highlighted by the corona crisis. The need to implement this resolution is very high. From Open Vld we cannot be clearer: physical, psychological, but also economic violence between partners and between family members cannot be justified in any circumstances. Fighting this is a joint task for both the federal government and the federal states. We have one common objective: partner violence and intra-familiarity must leave the country and the world. This resolution makes 35 concrete recommendations covering all aspects of intra-family violence. In this resolution, we call on the government, among other things, to consider the issue of intra-family violence as a priority. Hopefully we will be able to welcome you here, Madam Secretary of State, with a new national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, which we hope will be based on an evaluation of the 2015-2019 National Action Plan, inspired by this resolution. In addition, the text pays particular attention to children. We explicitly ask for the child reflex to be extended to police and justice because children are victims of intra-family violence both directly and indirectly. Justice and police must therefore always have a child reflex in every file. Thus, risk situations for a child can be detected more quickly. In this way, we want to protect the children optimally. The various hearings we have held within the Advisory Committee have taught us that it is not easy to understand how these different forms of violence are linked in practice and prevent together. That is why it is also a good thing to call for further research. Belgium has already come a long way in terms of sensitisation and raising awareness about this problem. However, we still need to go a step further. After all, there is still a dark number. It is therefore a good thing that we ask the government to focus on effective and targeted awareness-raising campaigns that are tailored to the different levels of government and that are also evaluated afterwards. This resolution also strongly focuses on prevention and victim support. Recognizing a situation to attract the alarm bell in time is a very important first step in many situations of domestic violence. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to the original text, pointing out the importance of re-contacting police areas. As mayor, I myself find it necessary and important to follow up victims, but also perpetrators. Reconnection is very useful. For example, new facts can also be discovered, allowing the police to continue working and helping these people. The safety of the victim must, of course, come first. With this resolution, therefore, we also want to create a greater awareness of society, because it also reduces, among other things, the threshold for reporting. It must be as low as possible. There shouldn't really be a threshold. I would also like to appeal to all those who witness intra-family violence. Whether it's neighbors, friends or family, open your mouth and report this. We still have too much difficulty with this in Belgium, because it is in our culture not to interfere with other people's household. Talk to the victim and take undisputed sides with the victim. In addition, I'm also making a call to the victim. Ask for help, because not you, but the killer is in error. Ladies and gentlemen, I have raised a few points in the text which are important to my group. I hope that we will be able to vote in favour of this text across the borders of majority and opposition. Our group will, of course, do so. Finally, timing is everything. I said at the start of my speech that this pandemic makes it painfully clear that this resolution is much needed. If within twenty years we look back at this period, those who have lost loved ones will of course remember this with great sorrow. Many will also look back at a period of lack of friends and family, a loss of the first party, a barf student who has no student life, no terraces and restaurants, no pleasant memories. We will not look back on this with positive feelings, but from the bottom of my heart I hope that, if we look back on this period, we can also see that this was the time when we really started the fight against intra-family violence and finally really turned the tide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u13	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue where Mrs Verhaert stopped. The past year has been tough. Our social contacts have shrunk to a minimum. People work from home and have to combine that with a family. Some have the luxury to have plenty of space, each with its own room and a beautiful garden, but not everyone has that luxury. Some of us are stuck. For them, life has been standing still for far too long. That can begin to weigh on mental health and relationships, especially if the house in which one lives is not a place of safety. We see that this is increasingly the case. This is evident from reports of intra-family violence on chat sexual violence. They went up by as much as 60%. The lockdown has painfully exposed how widespread this problem is. It scared the hell out of all of us. Intra-family violence is not a problem with corona. Only Corona has made it more visible and worse. We've been dragging this around for too long. For example, one in three women is physically or sexually abused by her partner. There are no less than 35 interventions or incidents before anyone decides to press charges. That was one of the figures that emerged in the hearings. There are still figures here that shocked me. There are 35 too many, and 34 too many before help is sought. This shows that we have been doing too little for years and that this problem is hidden behind a taboo. It shows that victims still know too much shame, while it's just up to us to show them who their supporters are. They need to know who they can go to for help. If it is not yet clear, intra-family violence is a major problem, which must finally be put out on the table. We need to deal with victims better, punish perpetrators more severely, but also better guide them. That is only possible if we remove this senseless violence from the taboo sphere, so that we can prevent it. Of the persons involved in intra-family violence, almost half of them were exposed to this type of violence before they were 16 years old. The problem disrupts families and even more importantly, it hypothesizes the future of our youth. That is why we chose not only partner violence as a theme for the advisory committee, but we take the impact on children with us very explicitly, because, no matter how you turn it or turn it, children who grow up in a violent environment, whether they share the blows or not, are always the victims. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the experts who have spoken to us from their field of work during the hearings. Their knowledge, experience and insights were a huge source of information for us. They made the often invisible problem behind the front door finally visible. It's time to break that door open, colleagues. It's time to get to work. That is why I am pleased that there is a motion for a resolution before Parliament today, with which we work together without taboos or sacred houses to resolve the problem. All the parties in the hemisphere have contributed to this resolution. The proposal shows that this problem can transcend political differences and disputes. Our cooperation clearly indicates that we want to act decisively, all together. The motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Advisory Committee and I hope that we can repeat it tomorrow. In this way, as Members of Parliament, we are really sending a strong signal to the government: it is time for action. I am looking in your direction, Madam Secretary of State, because you will have to push colleagues again. We ask the government to work towards a better exchange of information, so that every relevant body knows the situation thoroughly in the event of intra-family violence, especially if children are involved. We are calling for greater awareness and training so that violence is recognised. A child who lives in a violent situation and knows nothing else should know that this is not okay. Our policemen and magistrates must be able to recognise intra-family violence more quickly and assess its consequences. We ask that the home bans, which have proved their worth, be given an effective roll-out. In short, we are calling for intra-family violence to be tackled in all areas. I will not give any more examples, as colleagues have already done in detail. I would particularly like to focus on concrete proposals. I'm giving a clear warning of action. Colleagues, my movement believes that together we can make the difference in so many vulnerable families. I couldn't have done that without you. My special thanks go to my colleagues from the majority and opposition, as well as to their colleagues. For hours, this text was written and debated together. Thank you for your constructive cooperation, thank you for coming to this result together. Please note that this resolution is a good result, but it is not a final result. It is a starting point to really tackle this kind of violence. The resolution contains many recommendations, which also places us as committee members on our responsibilities. After all, as committee members, we can transform the proposals in the resolution into concrete legislative proposals in Parliament. I have just referred to the questions addressed to the government by means of the resolution, but I hope that this resolution will also wake us up as Members of Parliament. I am thinking of my bill prohibiting parents from systematically using mental or physical violence or any degrading treatment in the education of their children. We must also break this vicious circle, because this resolution also makes it clear that tackling intra-family violence starts with empowering our children. I really believe that, it's one of the big levers. We must protect our children, but we must also empower them. With this resolution, I want to reach out to all colleagues from my group and as chairman of the committee. Together we can take steps forward, together we can take action. Let us do so, please, across all party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u14	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence and your interest in these matters. As other colleagues have pointed out, on 21 April there were 11 femicides. One third more telephone calls were recorded on domestic violence hotlines in 2020 compared to 2019, 21,704 calls (an average of 60 calls in 24 hours) and 50,000 complaints of domestic violence per year. This is just a few figures to illustrate the problem we have been dealing with for weeks, months or even years. I hope that these lengthy discussions will not only be incantations. Many resolutions and statements have already been made in the past. But recognize that they have remained relatively unanswered. It is not you who will deny me, Madam Secretary of State, because, when you were a Member of Parliament, you also denounced the lack of concrete actions. While we have clearly felt a shudder through the government statement that we have supported on this side, as Mrs Jiroflée has just pointed out, concrete actions still need to be translated into action. While plans and other documents are essential – they need to be developed, updated, renewed – their implementation is sorely lacking. But for the three Ps (Prevent, Protect, Punir) so dear to women's organisations to be a reality, it is necessary that on all floors of the Belgian house, the fight against domestic violence becomes a real priority. Indeed, a multidisciplinary approach is fundamental. A comprehensive approach is needed and, as has been said on several occasions, there is not only one answer that can be the solution. Each situation is unique. When you listen to women's associations, you realize that one situation is not the other, that for some a distance is necessary and not for others. It is therefore imperative that the solutions advocated be provided individually. This resolution, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this text, has the merit of gathering in a document a lot of requests. I say "many." I would like to highlight the key positive points such as the multidisciplinary approach. It is known that it is not easy with skills broken between the different levels of power. While there is the ICD meeting, it is not always easy to coordinate work in a long-term approach but also in a comprehensive approach. This resolution takes into account the situation of children. It's very important. She recalled that the government was committed to increasing multidisciplinary care centres. This is an essential point when you know these centres and how they work. That is a crucial answer. It is committed to implementing therapeutic follow-up of the authors because if it is necessary to punish, it is also necessary to treat. For us, it's important. It also undertakes to reflect on the issue of the immediate appearance of the authors. In Belgium, it is noted that in most cases of femicide, warning signals had already been issued, judicial intervention had taken place or even non-intervention despite complaints. We know that it is essential to be able to respond quickly to actions that are taken. Another important element for us, and on which we have tabled a text, is all online violence, including sexual violence online. Remember that we alerted very strongly during the first confinement, starting in March! We argued that the pilot experiment in the Brussels area could be extended to all police areas, namely to reconnect with those who had lodged complaints in the previous three months, the time limit referred to. It is also important to highlight the success of the Family Justice Centers developed in Flanders and which are a real added value because they also have a global approach. I have just mentioned to you what I believe was essential. I would like to add that we have proposed to improve the text with a few points. Unfortunately, these points were rejected. I regret this and regret it at the last sitting which saw the vote on the amendments. I recognize that these points are also the cornerstone of the fight against violence. I still do not understand why our amendments have been rejected. We repositioned four of them. It remains until tomorrow by the majority to say that everything is done, it is an added value for the text. Far from us political quarrels! It is not about that, but about improving the text. The first amendment concerns the anti-approximation bracelet as an effective means of ensuring remoteness. We propose, in the resolution, to evaluate and publicize this fundamental law. But this distance must be made effective. Never, ever before, did we say it was the solution. I started by saying that there were multiple answers to give. The anti-approximation bracelet is one of the ways to ensure the effectiveness of the distance from the author. Why not just look at this issue? We are not asking for this to be translated right away. The second amendment is to systematize the filing of complaints in the hospital, as is the case in the care centres. We stressed that the increase in these centres should be significant. Many victims told us about the systematization of the filing of complaints. We didn't make it up. This is done in France. After seeing the beatings in the hospital, the victims have to go back to the police station to tell the story again. Why not immediately offer this reception at the hospital level? At first we could perhaps choose a few large hospitals in the Regions where there are always reference hospitals, to see how it works. Indeed, what happens often is that the victims, once they have been in the hospital, let them see the blows and tell the story, go home and do not go to the police offices, because it is again to say the same thing. For them, it's very complicated. That is why we proposed to study the systematization of the filing of complaints in the hospital. We fought with you to call the victims again to see how they were going during the confinement. We propose that this approach be sustained, on the basis of an evaluation. Why, indeed, limit it to the period of the pandemic, when we know that this measure is working? We also propose to contact the authors again. Remember, in the previous resolutions that we voted for, we included this measure. This is a request from the voluntary sector, in order to keep the pressure on these authors by having them called by the police service. This seems to us to be very important. I regret that the fourth point we tabled, which Mrs Zanchetta also mentioned, is not reflected in the text. This is zero tolerance. You'll tell me there's a circular. We know that with this circular, 70 per cent of the reported facts are classified as unanswered. In the region of Liège, Prosecutor Bourguignon introduced this zero tolerance some time ago - you may be too young to remember. I recall that she had explained that, for each complaint, a document had to be drawn up and directed to the prosecutor's office, which decided on the action to be taken. At the time, we were at 80 per cent of the rankings without follow-up and, thanks to the will of prosecutor Bourguignon, we fell to 30 per cent in the region of Liège. It worked so well that it was extended to the whole kingdom. Indeed, it requires resources. But I suppose you and your colleagues know that. This circular is not sufficiently applied, although it is essential. It is sufficient to look at the files of the last two femicides to realize that the complaints that had previously been filed would probably have received different treatment, notably through the risk assessment grid of individuals at the disposal of the public prosecutor's offices, which include elements that attract attention such as phone calls, harassment, the break-up of a car windshield, and the typing of the door. I simply ask you not to make a policy on such matters as this: these are very concrete things. I won't be making a policy on this kind of case. This would be indecent in relation to these thousands of women under either physical or psychic control. We are keen on these points because we think they are perfecting the scheme. I have no doubt for a second that these points are of interest to you too. These dots don't eat bread. They make a concrete gesture in relation to what the Prime Minister has repeatedly recalled: the hand stretched towards the opposition. I don't like to talk about opposition in this case, because it's not about that, it's about building something that makes sense. In my opinion, being locked in majority-opposition games, it is terribly disrespectful and unconsiderable for the too many victims. I also do not want to be self-congratulated by saying that this text is miraculous. Mrs. Jiroflée just said it very wisely. This work has been very important. The hearings, the amendments tabled by each group, the synthesis carried out are obviously important points. But please, let us not self-congratulate, because it is a demand and above all we need concrete actions. I told you that I would never put a political label on this issue, but I will never give up on a soft consensus that lacks ambition with respect to principles or demands that make sense. I selected four of them for which we had far more amendments than what was tabled. These four requests really make sense and come to perfect the text submitted. Many took the example of Spain to show that the rate of femicides had declined sharply in several years. However, Spain has a budget of 400 million euros per year dedicated to combating domestic violence, with special receptions in police stations, specific courts dealing only with this problem, 48 hours, perpetrators actually brought to justice and with therapeutic follow-up, as some associations do in Belgium, but in a much more sustained way. That is Spain! Others said that Spain is equal to the anti-approximate bracelet! Yes, indeed, it is one of their devices to ensure the remoteness and effectiveness of the removal measure. I really wish we could take Spain as an example. Dedicated budgets, be it prevention, everything that is obviously repressive and also the protection of victims, it is the 3Ps that are essential to this policy. Albert Einstein said that "where there is a will, there is a path." I have no doubt that, personally, you have a will. I don't doubt it. I hope you will have a path for all these victims, which will be a more serene, more soothing, more protective path. A path that will be made of concrete actions, taking into account inhuman and unacceptable situations for families, mainly for women, we know, but also for children. I really count on you so that we can finally take Belgium as an example: "Look, they have put in place a real policy to combat violence against women". I will tell you that in the current state of the motion for a resolution, although it obviously contains a lot of things, we will not be able to support it as it stands unless it is supplemented by some of the elements that we are proposing; because we believe that they really bring something into the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u15	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, this text is the culmination of long months of hearings in the Social Emancipation Committee. I would like to thank Mrs Jiroflée for guaranteeing this work despite the health constraints. Through these hearings, associations, magistrates, lawyers and actors in the field were able to express their views on the remaining ways to combat domestic violence in Belgium. Such violence is very difficult to grasp given the different levels of power that need to be activated, but also given the diversity of such violence. These are physical, sexual and economic violence. As a result, it is very difficult to provide fully effective responses. We were not leaving anything to understand this endemic problem. For example, we had overwhelming reports from the United Nations, WHO, many associations and NGOs on domestic violence in the world. Here, we have really been able to point out what is missing especially in our country, in terms of our specificities, the structure of our State or our legal culture. It is a long-term, intensive and informative work on the remaining measures to combat this societal scourge, which we began more than a year ago in January 2020. More than a year later, there was this health, economic and social crisis that went through it and made the urgency of these measures more urgent than ever. This has recently been seen with the decision of Turkish President Erdogan and other countries such as Poland to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention, which is yet the first legally binding instrument in the world to combat violence against women but also domestic violence – which is also about children – by providing each state with a real roadmap based on what is called the four Ps: integrated policies, prevention, protection and support and prosecution. It was also seen with these eleven femicides already perpetrated in Belgium this year, twice as many as last year at the same time. These figures must never make us forget that behind them there are women, destinies, families that are broken forever. Nor should these crimes make us forget that they very often occur at the end of a chain of violence that is often committed in the intimate circle, which we must put an end to before it is too late. We have seen this again with the edifying report of the Brussels Council for Equality between Women and Men, published this Monday, which shows, if necessary, that phone calls against domestic violence, but also complaints of violence have increased considerably during this health crisis. For all these reasons, I can only welcome the progress that this motion for a resolution represents, which complements the one which we voted on 11 June and which my colleague Vanessa Matz and I had tabled. In addition, the present text contains a number of aspects, including the need to recontact victims who have already filed complaints, to facilitate the filing of online complaints via the police-on-web platform, or to encourage telecom operators to remove any trace of victims' calls to the listening lines. In addition to these recommendations, there are many new measures. As time is short, I will not be able to address them all, but I would like to return to one of them in particular: the establishment of a system for the collection of data and statistics in general. It's really indispensable, because you'll never say enough that measuring is knowing. The aim is to identify measures that are targeted and effective. At the moment, it is the associations and the media that carry out the work of censusing femicides, not justice – which records the sex of the perpetrators, but not the sex of the victims. In so doing, one invisibility of a phenomenon. It's no longer acceptable. However, in addition to the many measures I have recalled the need for, I must regret that some fundamental aspects of the issue of domestic violence have been ignored without any relevant justification. Indeed, I cannot imagine that belonging to the opposition could be the justification for this. Mrs Matz recalled earlier that this subject is so serious that it requires us to go beyond the political divides. First, we know how difficult and dangerous it can be to call for help in the presence of the person we loved, but who now destroys us with little fire. Therefore, I do not understand why the amendment that we tabled, which was intended to make the listening lines accessible by SMS and chat, was rejected. This measure would not only help to alleviate these lines of appeal, which are saturated and supported by understaffed personnel, but would also encourage some victims to report the violence against them much more discreetly and thus to do so without fear of reprisals or even more serious acts of violence – both for themselves and their children. As far as calling lines are concerned, I had also tabled an amendment which provided for the possibility of an online chat for the Listening for Children line. It was also rejected. It is all the more incomprehensible that this request was contained in the resolution we voted on last June. Today, the government is failing to realize this demand. Finally, this was a useful reminder to ensure the protection of children who are victims of domestic violence in their own right, as the text of the motion for a resolution acknowledges at the outset. These children must be protected for their physical and moral integrity, but also for their proper development. With regard to vulnerable persons, our amendment sought to take gender into account in the grounds of persecution contained in requests for international protection. He was also dismissed. So yes, the motion for a resolution as adopted in the committee contains a request to improve the consideration of domestic violence for women in irregular residence who are engaged in a process of family reunification or a request for international protection, but this is still insufficient. This request does not allow for the consideration of persons who are abused by reason of their gender, in particular girls. I also regret that the possibility of setting up an anti-approximation device has also been rejected. It was not a question of moving in this direction and therefore of putting this anti-approximation mechanism in place, but simply of remaining open to the constructive work which we have had in this respect in the Committee on Justice, but also in the technical working group which this Committee on Justice has set up for this purpose. Finally, I must deplore the reservation that has been made on the details surrounding the awareness-raising of children and young people in schools. While today's motion for a resolution contains this need to raise awareness among young people, it does not specify the minimum contours of this awareness. However, it seems to me of crucial importance to address certain key themes, such as the issue of consent, equality between girls and boys, and the deconstruction of stereotypes, from an early age. For all these reasons, I have resubmitted some of these amendments, those that could not be taken into consideration in the committee. I hope you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that these amendments are intended only to improve and supplement this motion for a resolution, which would thus gain both legibility and efficiency, including other mechanisms to be put in place and taking into account the diversity of victims to be protected. The goal that we all must pursue, as elected representatives of the nation, is to ensure that every victim, regardless of his or her experience, status, gender, sexual orientation or economic situation, has at his or her disposal all the practical and effective tools to ensure his or her protection. This text is the culmination of long parliamentary work, but also an impetus for the work that remains to be done by the government. No one today denies that the fight against domestic violence is a priority, but it is time to translate it into action. I would also like to assure you, Madam Secretary of State and members of your Government, of our full support in the implementation of the demands contained in this resolution, as well as in the preparation of the national action plan to combat violence against women, which you have already announced. The same applies to associations, lawyers and doctors who come to the victims every day. By our vote tomorrow, we send them the signal again that we are accompanying them in their difficult but indispensable mission, so that every victim can be listened to, helped and protected, and so that every victim can live and rebuild. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u16	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u17	• 7 Sophie Rohonyi cs (1844/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u18	• 5 – Vanessa Matz (1844/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-plenair-ip098x.u19	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. I thank you for your participation and the calm debate that has taken place on an extremely serious and important subject. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 22, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 April 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
