ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u1	There was just a discussion with the company Electrabel on the Nuclear Safety Committee. This was mainly about the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the nuclear disposal. This is, of course, not only an interesting but also a very important and crucial debate for the coming years. Today, EUR 14 billion has been built up in Synatom. Some of these funds have also been lent to Electrabel. What about the availability of financial resources? I read in the press that the decommissioning and storage operation would cost EUR 18 billion. That's the estimate today. Is that right? Can you give some explanation about that? You announced a change in the law on this subject, in order to have more control over the 'polluter pays' principle. We have all read in the media that Electrabel has paid a dividend to the parent company of almost EUR 700 million at a time when losses were recorded. We just interviewed Electrabel's CEO about that. He mentioned that he is in a financially solid group and that it is part of his group's financial policy. All of that may be true, but funds that are abroad seem to be far away from our country. You have also expressed your indignation and concern in the press. Do you think you can somehow have an impact on a possible capital flight? The certainty about the finances and, above all, the certainty that society will not pay for nuclear pollution and its handling is a common thread that should bind us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u2	Madam Minister, it was decided to raise a dividend of EUR 700 million from Electrabel to the parent company ENGIE in France, which would need additional financial resources. That need would be at the root of the uprising. Electrabel has stated that the balance sheet is strong enough to continue to fulfil its obligations in the future. In 2017, a dividend of 1.6 billion euros was also raised, despite the fact that more losses than profits have been realised in recent years and that even Electrabel's equity has declined further. This raises questions about the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, which is estimated to cost EUR 18 billion. In Synatom's subsidiary there is an investment portfolio that is highly dependent on the company itself because Electrabel is part of it for more than half of the portfolio. This means that if the value of Electrabel falls because of the decline in equity, this will have a major impact on Synatom and on the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. Madam Secretary, what will you do to prevent a further undressing of Electrabel? In the meantime, have you had any discussions with the Electrabel Summit? How will the government prevent the funds for decommissioning nuclear power plants from being inadequate and shifted to the taxpayer? What guarantees can you offer in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u3	Mrs. Dierick has been apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u4	Madam Minister, this item is also important for our group. The decommissioning of nuclear power stations has a considerable cost. I do not understand why a company that lost EUR 2 billion last year could still pay out EUR 693 million in dividends. I don't understand it at all because it's about Electrabel, a company that still stands for a billion-dollar project in the coming years. Synatom's resources will have to grow over the next few years and decades to cover the costs of decommissioning nuclear power plants and the management of the fuel used. So we need a strong Electrabel that can carry the necessary growth, something you have already said in the press. However, this ENGIE démarche seems to go in the opposite direction. You have already indicated that you will strengthen the legal framework on nuclear facilities. This situation shows that this is incredibly necessary. I really have only one question, namely what initiatives you will take to ensure that Electrabel will fulfil its obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u5	Mr. President, Mr. Ben Achour asked to be excused. I will take the floor at the end of the list of issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u6	Mr President, I naturally agree with my colleagues. I won't take too long. EUR 700 million in dividends has been paid, while Electrabel has claimed a loss of EUR 2 billion. That is, of course, the logic of the shareholders. At all times, shareholders' profits must be guaranteed, even if the company makes losses. We discussed this last week in plenary. Electrabel would not have money to pay the nuclear tax, but 700 million euro cash to pay dividends. It has already been said by colleagues, but there is a risk that Electrabel will be completely stripped by the parent company and that the management and disposal of radioactive waste and the safe decommissioning of nuclear power plants will be compromised. I have a number of questions for you, Madam Secretary. What do you think of the dividend payment of EUR 700 million? How is that possible for a company that claims to lose EUR 2 billion? How are you going to ensure that Electrabel cannot be completely undressed and that the invoice for nuclear waste and decommissioning of nuclear power stations is passed on to Belgian taxpayers? Now we see that Electrabel has enough cash in his possession. I would like to give you a piste on that. Wouldn't it be better to ask Electrabel to accelerate the payment of the Synatom Fund's loans? They are intended for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the disposal of high-level radioactive waste. If they do have money, they can start paying these loans more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, Electrabel remains a flourishing company for the multinational of which it is the subsidiary. It has the capacity to generate significant profits that can delight its shareholders so far, although its own funds are declining over time and the Belgian legal framework of halting the exploitation of nuclear energy on our soil is on the horizon. Whenever large dividends are paid by the subsidiary to its parent company, there is concern in Belgium and the previous government has not crossed its arms, since I have increased all the amounts housed in Synatom as a nuclear supply and in a very significant way. These amounts now amount to EUR 14 billion. The dismantling that will last decades will require the monitoring of the situation for decades. A stronger and more robust legal framework will be required than that provided for in the Nuclear Provisions Act 2003. That is how I had developed a bill that could not be tabled before the May 2019 election. It has thus become a bill that I tabled immediately at the entrance of this Parliament and that will form part of the discussion that, without a doubt, if I believe what I read in the press, you will bring back to the table. You promised to present a first package before this summer. We haven't seen anything coming yet. It's a long-term job. Several leads are possible. Some colleagues have cited one or the other. Minister, when will you come to Parliament with a legal framework or bill that strengthens the legal framework of the Nuclear Supplies Act 2003 to ensure that the polluter pays principle, which is common to us, that is to say, we both defend it properly and that we do not go into the taxpayer's pocket to take on the dismantling of our nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u8	Madam Minister, while her last annual report (as repeated repeatedly) mentions a loss of two billion euros, Electrabel approved, at the end of 2020, the payment of a dividend of 693 million euros to ENGIE, which raises serious questions about the operator's ability to finance its exit from nuclear power. It is also known that EUR 14 millirads of supply are housed at Synatom in order to take over the dismantling of nuclear reactors and the storage of radioactive waste. In this context, what is your opinion on these provisions? Are they sufficient? Is there a risk that citizens (this is what matters and worries) will have to pay the bill at any time? If so, this would be unacceptable, especially since during this time, the parent company of Electrabel receives such dividends weakening the Belgian subsidiary financially. I welcome your prior criticism of the dividend paid, which would be, quoting you "unacceptable if it is a prelude to the dismantling of Electrabel before the bill for the release of nuclear power is paid." Having said that, I would like to hear more about the analysis of the so-called "robustness" of Electrobel (to resume its term) and its capacity according to the polluter/payer principle to bear the future costs of leaving nuclear power? What is the outcome of your discussions with ENGIE on the subject? What initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that Electrabel fulfils its obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the long and comprehensive questions. This is the largest and longest yard ever, namely the dismantling of our seven nuclear reactors and the subsequent management of the waste from them. Why do I say it's about the longest yard? We are looking here at many hundreds of thousands of years, two hundred to three hundred thousand years. It is a huge challenge in terms of security and financing. All the questions that have been asked here about the financial situation of ENGIE Electrabel are pertinent. As Mrs Buyst and other Members have pointed out, and as I also pointed out, when the news came out, we need a strong Electrabel to take responsibility for things from the past. I refer to my statement: 'If this is a harbinger of the dismantling of Electrabel for it has paid for the invoice of the core exit, then this is unacceptable'. Many have asked me if I had consulted with ENGIE Electrabel. Of course, I have regular consultations with ENGIE Electrabel and the company is aware of my intention to strengthen the legal framework. This does not even require consultation, as that is also stated in the coalition agreement. I did ask the company about the dividend and about the impact on nuclear facilities. I have been given the following explanation, which can also be found in the consolidated accounts of the ENGIE group. First, the production volume of the 7 nuclear power plants in Belgium was 32 terrawatts in 2020, more than 20% lower than in 2019. This was due to the last long stoppages for the works associated with the Long Term Operation project (LTO), i.e. the lifetime extension. The lower production was partly offset by higher electricity prices, but resulted in a negative operational result for the nuclear activities. Secondly, the dividend of EUR 693 million paid out to ENGIE by Electrabel corresponds to 70% of the net recurrent result of 2019, i.e. EUR 990 million. That dividend is smaller than the dividends Electrabel itself received from its foreign holdings, which amounted to EUR 1.1 billion. Electrabel's total investments in 2020, amounting to EUR 1.8 billion, well exceeded the EUR 700 million investments and still exceeded EUR 1.1 billion net. Electrabel's progress on ENGIE decreased to EUR 11.8 billion. Synatom's financial assets grew to 4.4 billion euros. In the period 2021-2025, loans amounting to 4.7 billion in respect of the fuel used will be repaid by Electrabel to Synatom. Nuclear facilities amounted to EUR 14 billion by the end of 2020, of which EUR 6.2 billion was earmarked for decommissioning nuclear installations and EUR 7.8 billion for the disposal of spent fuel. The costs on the other hand are estimated at EUR 18 billion. That amount refers to overnight costs, the costs of achieving this dismantling and disposal at 24 hours. That does not happen in practice, of course. In practice, this publication is reserved for a contract over about 100 years in time. The conversion of overnight costs to current costs should be based on a hypothetical inflation rate of 2% and a spread over time. This would amount to a current cost of just over EUR 40 billion. Of course we do not know the real inflation, because we do not have a glass ball. The amount is therefore one of the best efficiency and is, of course, very indicative. So you can see that the challenge is great. At the same time, there have never been so much cash on Synatom's balance sheet, 4.4 billion. It was Mrs Marghem who also referred to it. However, it is impossible for Electrabel to be undressed. Electrabel must remain able to fulfil all obligations relating to decommissioning and long-term disposal of spent fuel. However, I do not intend to continue to hope for the good will of the operator. That is why I would like to extend the Commission's powers in the field of nuclear facilities so that it can exercise more effective control over the facilities and take the necessary measures. At the moment, there is a voluntary commitment from the group to repay the loans, a commitment made to the Nuclear Facilities Commission. I intend at least to anchor that in the law. My cabinet has already sat together with the Committee on Nuclear Facilities on this matter. The designs for this are concreteizing themselves. I hope that I will be able to come to the committee as soon as possible. It is true that it was my intention to do so before the summer, but it takes more time than expected and I do not want to come to Parliament with half-work. The timetable is therefore to establish that legislative framework before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u10	There is absolutely no need for clarity. Electrabel, of course, did not give up a fork earlier and has no idea of the costs. The company has promised to accept its responsibility. The question, however, is what if the figures are not quite clear. You give more clarity, but it remains an indicative figure. No one here will be able to say with certainty what it will eventually be, regardless of all the expertise present here. It is a very long process. There will undoubtedly be unforeseen factors. Therefore, it is to be welcomed that you are continuing your search for ways to securely rely on the well-stocked Synatom Fund. You will have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u11	We had already received part of the answer at the meeting of the Nuclear Safety Commission just now. I understand that you will take legislative initiatives to ensure that the company complies with its obligations. You say that the Synatom Fund is worth EUR 4.4 billion in cash. That amount should increase to 18 billion. Of course, this is also partly an investment portfolio that is more than half dependent on the value of Electrabel itself. When Electrabel's equity decreases, the value of Synatom will also decrease. We must be careful to ensure that the taxpayer does not ultimately have to pay for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. This decommissioning will take another 20 years or more. So it will be a very long journey that we will have to go with the people of Electrabel. We must therefore be able to count on sufficient guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u12	Madam Minister, it is clear that nuclear energy costs us billions of euros. You talked about decommissioning, but there is also the management of waste, for which we will need years of money to manage it properly. So it is true that we need a strong Electrabel because of those billions of euros for the nuclear cleanup. We think it is very important that the polluter pays and that ENGIE Electrabel should put aside enough money for this. Indeed, the figures show that the challenge is great and you say again today that you want to work on it in accordance with the coalition agreement. You want to give the Commission more power for nuclear facilities and you want to think about how the loans can be repaid. So you do what you have to do. In fact, I find it distressing that we should all be concerned at the moment about whether the resources will be available. In this respect, too, I believe that the core step is not sufficiently prepared by the previous governments; I am pleased that you are doing what is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u13	Madam Minister, your answer with its many figures sounds a bit like an accounting answer, while my question was what you think politically. I expected a little more than the explanation you kindly asked Elijah. Of course, we support you in your demarches to strengthen the nuclear commission. The legislative framework had to be put in place before the summer, but it is now planned for the end of this year and we welcome that. Furthermore, you have not ruled whether there is any possibility of speeding up the payment of Synatom's loans, as there seems to be enough cash at Electrabel, of which you are aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u14	Mr President, it is true that such a vast question, which involves so much money and so many years, deserves a political answer. Unfortunately, we do not have that political response, and I want to clarify the following because I think it is important to say it now. Earlier, we heard Mr Saegeman, CEO of Electrabel, tell us that he was preparing for the dismantling of the seven nuclear reactors, as required by the legal framework. It is quite normal, since he recalled from the very beginning of his assumption of office as CEO of Electrabel, that he had realized that the government was going to implement his government agreement. Even if it's a lapalissade, it means everything. You are well placed, Madam Minister, to know the world of business. As a lawyer, you practiced it. In fact, there are several people in your firm who come directly from the business world, and you know that the company needs predictability. To the extent that, on the one hand, important dividends continue to be paid to the parent company and, on the other hand, at the time, Mr Deleuze, your co-religionary, has drawn up the nuclear exit law and the nuclear provisions law, which has not been reformed in all these years - these are the previous governments that have just been discussed, Mrs Buyst - it is therefore clear that I am at your disposal to discuss them, through the bill that I had tabled. There is, however, a fundamental point. Indeed, from the moment that a line of the government agreement has escaped from Electrabel, which concerns the unforeseen month of November, a contingency in terms of continuity in security of supply and prices, namely that, because of this unforeseen event, we should still continue to extend two nuclear power plants, and therefore ask Electrabel to stop the dismantling that it has begun for two of the seven nuclear reactors, you will find yourself in an extremely delicate situation. I wouldn't want you to know how delicate this situation is going to be, and I will say it now. Needless to say, a company will try to limit costs. And as it is asked to do something that was not planned, suddenly, it will of course enter into negotiations with the Belgian Government, make it pay for the extension of two nuclear reactors and balance in this negotiation the package of nuclear supplies. I would like to draw your attention to this point. It is clear that you cannot go this way and, in any case, I will be there to remind him. It is out of the question of a logic of lump-sum nuclear supplies, since for years we will have to follow closely a situation of treatment of nuclear waste, whether category A or category B and C, and we know that for the latter it will last decades, 80 years, as Mr Saegeman pointed out. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is essential that you strengthen the legislative framework now and that, instead of waiting to be surprised in November, you already see what is foreseeable now, namely that there are two nuclear reactors that will have to be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u15	Madam Secretary, you were warned about this in the coalition agreement. You have been warned about this in your policy paper. You've been warned about that. I do not know what will happen when it is necessary, but it seems to me that not much will happen in this area. With regard to the whole issue of Synatom and ENGIE Electrabel, I think it is important that those funds should gradually return to the Synatom Fund. I have already said to the previous government that it would not be illogical for the funds to return to the fund in the same proportion when a number of nuclear power stations are closed. I think it is important that these resources should grow in the years to come. Today, a distinction is made between the EUR 14 billion, the EUR 18 billion and the EUR 40 billion. It should be noted that it was always assumed that the EUR 14 billion over the years had some growth margin. It has always been intended to have a basic amount that could grow over the years to ensure that the costs can be covered for the whole of the period. I also see in the coalition agreement a passage on the use of Synatoms for the energy transition. I am very curious how you will ensure that the money returns to that fund on the one hand and how you will transfer it from the fund to other purposes on the other. I do not know how we can guarantee that these money will come back. We all know very good examples in the field of energy transition, but there are just as many examples where there are also risks involved. I think your party once awarded a Green Pluim for one of those things, Electrawinds. I would like to warn you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u16	Madam Minister, Elia's legally imposed biennial study of adequacy and flexibility was proposed on Friday. Of course, it is very important for future CRM auctions, including for volume parameters. The volume which will be necessary for security of supply four years later is estimated annually. The European Regulation 2014/943 states that the methodology for assessing the adequacy of electricity supply is used to assess, inter alia, the need for a CRM. For the implementation of the ACER Decision on the new European methodology for the European Resource Ademucy Assessment (ERAA), which dates from 2 October 2020, a multi-annual implementation plan was drawn up, with a reliability standard. In the second half of April, you explained to the Commissioner responsible the interaction between the European methodologies and the CRM design. A number of aspects of the new European methodology are taken into account in the new Elia study on security of supply, as announced. These include the issue of climate years and the method of calculating expected revenues. You have always stressed that a number of aspects of the European methodologies will be transposed more quickly than in the implementation plan of ENTSO-E. How exactly have the different aspects of the new European methodology been applied in Elia's new study? What exactly are the consequences for the current and future CRM design and for future auctions? What is the status of the new standard of reliability? I'd like to take a short walk in the study. In the format of an oral question, I can only put to you a few points to which Elijah refers. Firstly, during the winter of 2024-2025, shortages may occur if risky events of recent years abroad repeat themselves. Transitional measures may be needed during that period, in particular a strategic reserve. Secondly, Elia states that in the years to come, surplus production in Europe may come under pressure when Belgium needs it. A lack of available cross-border capacity may also arise, which is necessary to bring that electricity to Belgium. Therefore, according to Elijah, policy choices in Belgium as well as in other European countries will determine to what extent our country can reduce the uncertainties and the risks of its security of supply. Thirdly, Elia expects the costs of CRM to be offset by a decrease in wholesale prices for Belgian consumers. That part of the study was one of the eye-catchers in the press. However, you said yourself that the CRM will lead to market stability with fewer price peaks. So you are on horseback with Elijah, which even talks about a net added value of EUR 100 to 300 million per year. The CRM therefore earns itself back. Very interesting! Fourthly, Belgium will face a structural shortage of domestic renewable energy sources in the longer term. A focus on the development of domestic renewable energy as well as partnerships with countries with structural surplus renewable energy is appropriate. So Belgium should start working on these important partnerships today. These are four important points in the study, which Elijah himself puts forward. It is no surprise that the study largely legitimizes the policy options of you, Madam Minister, and even those of the Vivaldic coalition by extension. Anyway, Madam Minister, what is your policy response to these four issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u17	Mr President, Elia, the TSO, has made her third biennial study on adequacy and flexibility. In this study, Elia recalls the "emergency need" to install new capacities to compensate for the shutdown of nuclear reactors and considers that the country's security of supply is "vulnerable". Elia also recalls that "Belgian policy makers should carefully reflect on this aspect in their decision-making in order to maintain the reliability of the energy system". Elia also calls for vigilance with regard to the capacity in place since any existing capacity could unexpectedly leave the Belgian market by 2025 and lead to risks of adequacy for our country. In Elia's calculations, which partly reflect the current government's policy, we still see that the estimated additional capacity requirements are 3.6 GW and not 3.9 GW as estimated under the previous government, which is much more than the 2.3 GW you have anticipated in T-1, Elia indicating that other capacities such as demand modulation and storage should only amount to 800 MW. The question again arises of the use of the ACER method by Elia - this is the subject of my second question approved in October 2020 - which provides for a new set of methodologies for the conduct of future assessments of the adequacy of European and national resources, in order to ensure the robustness and reliability of the results of this study but also the results of the study and your policy and how you conduct it. Indeed, you have drastically reduced, for reasons that are well understood and that are more ideological than practical, the amount of the auction or, in any case, the capacity sought in witness auction 4 for CRM. How do you react to this Elias report? How do you plan to fill the missing capacity? The Endex tables, i.e. forward prices, show that consumers' bills are increasing considerably over the next two to three years. What steps are you going to take to prevent consumer bills and business bills from increasing due competition? Who's going to pay that bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u18	Madam Secretary, in his Adequacy and flexibility study 2022-2032, Elia calculates two scenarios: an ordinary BASE scenario and an extreme SAFE scenario. The special thing is that Elia has only communicated about the extreme SAFE scenario. It did the same two years ago with the infamous HiLo scenario, which was then highly criticised and also wiped off the table by the European Commission. We can actually say that Elijah perseveres in anger. In De Standaard last Saturday, Elijah also made a few fairly punitive statements. For example, Chris Peeters, Elijah's top man, said that nothing should really go wrong in the BASE scenario for years, which is unrealistic, because the ideal world does not exist. We all know that, of course. However, the BASE scenario also takes account of all kinds of issues. That's statistically calculated. In reality, the opposite is the case: the extreme SAFE scenario takes into account all kinds of additional sensitivities and, of course, the need for replacement capacity is blown up. It is not for nothing that the European Commission demands that a BASE scenario be used. What do you think of Elijah's communication that puts the extreme scenario at the heart of it? Also in the introduction and conclusion of the report, Elia simply does not talk about the BASE scenario. It calculates it, but doesn't talk about it anymore. Elijah made other remarkable statements in the press. For example, it claims that the CRM is good for consumers' electricity bills, as the CRM will lead to a decrease in prices. The explanation for this is that the additional capacity will reduce the risk of peak prices. That may be true, but the point is that peak prices are not being passed on to consumers. It is mainly the energy suppliers who pay the peak prices, because by definition they are very short-lived. It concerns the prices paid by energy suppliers on the wholesale market. In principle, they are not passed on to consumers. At present, it is mainly the profit margins of energy suppliers that are affected by these possible peak prices. My questions are as follows. What do you think of Elijah's statements in the press? Will CRM lead to a lower electricity bill for households and SMEs? Anyway, not for the taxpayer. Is it not true that the fall in wholesale prices is mainly for the benefit of suppliers, but not necessarily consumers? The results of this new study by Elijah confirm what the CREG and we have been saying for a long time, namely that the need for replacement capacity is heavily overestimated. The energy shortage decreased by a factor of 4 compared to the previous adequacy study of two years ago, in particular an expected energy not served (EENS) of 5.5 GWh in 2025 compared to 23 GWh predicted in 2019. This is a hugely different figure in two years. In the correct BASE scenario, following that economic variability assessment, there is a deficit of 2.2 GW, of which 1.7 GW of new capacity and 0.5 GW of existing capacity that would in principle leave the market without aid or measures. We could perfectly maintain that 0.5 GW with a strategic reserve as is already happening. This means that by 2025 we will still have a deficit of 1.7 GW. However, the law provides for a certain volume to be reserved for the T-1 auction, and I think that was an amendment by Mr Wollants on sustainable technologies such as batteries and demand management. You referred to this last weekend in various interviews, Madam Secretary. At the moment, as the figures now stand, 1.4 GW would be auctioned at the first T-1 auction in 2024. This means that according to Elijah's own figures there is still a need for 300 MW (1.7 - 1.4 GW) of new capacity to be auctioned in October, which corresponds to half a gas plant. You will correct me if my figures are not correct. This means that you are setting up a market-wide CRM mechanism for 300 MW of new gas capacity, which is, of course, ridiculously little. As we do, the environmental movement is of the opinion, on the basis of the results of this study, which I am referring to the figures, that Elijah himself does not need subsidies for fossil gas plants in order to ensure security of supply, with which I quote the environmental movement. Madam Minister, will you take into account the results of the new ademucy study, not what Elijah himself is planning, but the figures that come from Elijah's calculations? Will you, in other words, adjust the volume that will be auctioned in October in the light of these results? Will you therefore carry out what you have always said, namely to do everything possible to keep the number of gas plants to be built as low as possible? Will you pursue your policy on the basis of facts and figures? There is another scenario, namely the extreme SAFE scenario, in which Elia actually blows up the necessary volume in a fairly transparent way. It assumes that France would not be able to assess the reliability of its own nuclear power plants and that four French nuclear power plants would be additionally unavailable. These principles are simply contrary to European legislation and that was also exactly the European Commission's criticism of the HiLo scenario. The introduction of a CRM based on that scenario is basically that Belgian consumers pay for so-called supposed problems in France. Madam Secretary, what do you think of the principles of this SAFE scenario? Do you think it is justified that Belgian consumers should pay for an alleged security of supply problem in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u19	Mr Warmoes, you have combined your two questions, but you have also more than doubled your speaking time. We find each other sympathetic, but I would find you even more sympathetic if you could put your questions together a little more, certainly in the context of oral questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u20	Mr President, Madam Secretary. I will confine myself to the key questions. We all know it's about that new study that Elijah just published. Madam Minister, you mentioned earlier that we will implement a number of things more quickly in Belgium than was envisaged in the ENTSO-E. Now that that study is available, I have two questions. What do you think are the most important improvements in methodology that have been made in this study? What do you think are the main conclusions of this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u21	Madam Minister, I believe there are three key messages. Firstly, there is the urgent need for new capacity. A need for 3.6 GW of new capacity is expected by 2025. This is 300 MW less compared to the report of 2019. Secondly, the report states that it is necessary to have the support mechanism to be able to attract this new capacity effectively. This would also benefit consumers. In particular, Elia estimates that this could bring an annual benefit of between €100 and €300 million over the next 10 years, compared to the situation without a market-wide CRM. Thirdly, Elia states that Belgium must prepare for the transformation into a carbon-neutral society by 2050. The Network Manager advocates actions such as market design, the development of renewable energy production and international cooperation. The study was fully aligned with the current legal framework, including EU legislation and recent security of supply methodologies. That is an important consideration. What are the main conclusions you draw from that report? Where are the biggest differences with the 2019 report? To what extent does this report provide new insights into energy policy in the short and medium term? What actions will you take, as part of the third message, to prepare Belgium for the transformation into a carbon-neutral society?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u22	Madam Secretary, we need to consider some elements of Elijah's study. A first aspect is, of course, the price reduction by the CRM. That's often misinterpreted. At present, it will be more expensive with or without CRM. The question then is whether this CRM can do something about it. This also depends to a large extent on the sale of the CRM. If that CRM shows that a lot of open-cycle gas plants are allocated, it is of course a very different situation than when it is mainly about CEEC plants and the like. We don't know that today. We also don't know how you'll settle the CRM. Will you look for that elsewhere? Will you put that in the gas bill? None of that is known today. That's a number of uncertainties. At the same time, I have the impression that Elijah does not take into account one great uncertainty in his report: will these new gas plants run on time? Could there be any delays there that would prevent electricity from being delivered by November 2025? Because in that case, we have a completely different story with regard to CRM. I note that there is a possible delay in offshore wind and such a delay that is also mentioned in the report, but not the fact that these gas plants may not be there in time, even though they were properly auctioned in November. How do you deal with that, Madam Secretary? If this is not taken into account, we may be faced with very strange surprises by November 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u23	Mr President, thanks to your questions about the Adequacy & flexibility study, I can explain and highlight this. After all, we have done important work. I'll deal with the methodology first. Mrs Buyst asked about the main methodological adjustments in this study. I would remind you that the study on security of supply is actually the first of its kind. The Electricity Regulation dates from June 2019 and sets the rules, the ACER methodologies. One of these methodologies concerns the so-called ERAAs, the European resource adequacy assessments, which will form the basis for national studies or the NRAAs. In accordance with the Regulation, a detailed methodology was developed and adopted by ACER in October 2020. At European level, the ERAA is carried out by ENTSO-E. In accordance with the ACER methodology of October 2020, there is a progressive implementation of the different methodological aspects. ENTSO-E has published an implementation plan that extends over several years. ENTSO-E has an image of the roadmap it uses and published. I'll share that link with you. The different elements of the new methodology will not be completed until 2022 or 2023. At Belgian level, it has always been the government's objective to ensure that the Adequacy & flexibility study 2021 that has now been delivered would focus as much as possible on the ERAA methodologies. So they didn't want to wait until the whole methodology was implemented by ENTSO-E. A number of aspects would already be taken into account. There were already methodological improvements in the 2019 study, e.g. the probabilistic approach, observing the development of the network and the level of interconnection based on the latest data. In addition, it was agreed with Elia that all reasonable efforts would be made to integrate the new developments into this 2021 study. In the meantime, these aspects are well known in this committee. It's about climate years, among other things. Elia has preferred the first option of the European methodology, based on the best possible estimate of future climate projections. It is also a question of economic viability, of economic viability. Here too, the existing practice has improved, in line with the European methodology. Elia has called on a finance professor to develop a robust method for calculating the viability of the different capacities in the system, in accordance with the requirements of the new methodology. This method has also been the subject of extensive consultation and consultation with the parties concerned. This approach is fully in line with the ERAA methodology. As far as the flow-based approach is concerned, Belgium has been a pioneer for a long time. At present, Elia is the only TSO to take into account a detailed flow-based modelling of the entire Core region in its adequacy studies. The majority of the adequacy studies carried out by European transmission system operators and ENTSO-E are still being carried out using the NTC approach or using a limited flow-based approach. The flow-based approach in the European study will only reach the same level as Elia's method in 2023. The conclusions of the study are already well summarized by you. The study confirms the need for new capacity. Without new capacity, we can't reach the reliability standard. It is in line with reliability standards of other European countries. The sizes are also mentioned here: 3.6 GW in the SAFE scenario and 2.2 GW in the BASE scenario. I would also like to add that the study shows that the need for new capacity is sustainable. This appears to be the case for the entire period for which the study is being carried out. The study confirms that economic viability is insufficient to ensure that this capacity is developed on its own and that we need intervention. Hence the choice of CRM. In connection with the intervention, if this is a market-wide CRM, the study also shows that this will have a positive effect from a welfare perspective. Mr Wollants, it is true that the costs of the auction are only known at the time of the auction. However, modelling can take into account the net prosperity effect of introducing a market-wide CRM, which results in a range, depending on the capacity mix, from EUR 100 million per year to EUR 300 million per year or more. That intel isn't new in itself. In the many hearings that have already taken place in this committee, including in 2019, the table showed that when we have the guarantee on sufficient capacity, this has a mitigating effect on wholesale prices and prevents price peaks. Finally, which has been mentioned less so, I am sure that this is an adequacy study, which many of you have spoken of, but also a study of flexibility. Our own efforts in the coming years will be very important. The example of the electric vehicles makes this clear, where Elia clearly also investigated a number of different assumptions in terms of load behaviour. We know that the shift to more electric cars will increase our electricity demand. Assumptions have been included in the study in line with the National Energy and Climate Plan. If we were to charge them without study and thus charge everyone without restrictions to the peak moments, for example on a standard working day after working hours, this would increase the capacity shortage. On the other hand, if there is an optimized loading behaviour, peak demand may also decrease. Depending on the assumptions, peak demand would fall by 33 MW in 2025 and 800 MW in 2032 compared to the baseline scenario. Those are significant figures and insights, which show that in the coming years we will also be outside the pure...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u24	Madam Secretary, you may continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u25	I was like wonder finishing a certain piece, which brought me to a piece about the first auction. Some of you have asked me about insights for the first auction. Some have specifically asked for a possible adjustment of the auction parameters for the October auction. First of all, the study confirms the need for a CRM. The size orders in terms of capacity are also confirmed, as already known from previous studies and analyses. There is no need for a change of course in this respect. It is important, however, to stress once again: it is not the first time we have talked about this, even though the CRM and Elia's study are linked in terms of subject matter, since they both deal with security of supply in Belgium, this study cannot be used as a basis for determining the concrete parameters in the CRM or the volumes to be purchased in the future auction. The adequacy study is the implementation of Elijah's legal obligation to provide an analysis for the next ten years. It aims to draw attention to the expected challenges by translating and analysing the market and the electrical system in figures. In order to address the expected security of supply problems after 2025, the Belgian authorities have developed a legal framework by introducing the CRM. In this context, a methodology was also developed to allow the calculation of the volume to be placed in an auction. This methodology respects European principles and applies best practices as coherently as possible, but is of course more specific than the adequacy study and also serves to determine other parameters. An adjustment of the auction parameters based on the adequacy study is not possible, not planned and not desirable. In order to determine the volume and the auction parameters, there is a specific trajectory. We have discussed this on a number of occasions in this committee. Successive reports will be provided by Elia, advice and proposals from the CREG, and on this basis a volume decision will subsequently be taken setting out the auction parameters. Those are separate trajectories. It is not based on an adequacy study that limits an order of magnitude, that we can hypothesize the path that is legally foreseen and that we have implemented. Then there were concrete questions about the French nuclear scenarios. In the EU-BASE scenario, the latest study results in a deficit of 2.2 GW. This is based on the European dataset of the mid-term adequacy forecast 2020 (MAF). In the framework of the CRM auction, an update of this dataset took place, as the data collection under the MAF was still carried out on the basis of previous conventions prior to the new ERAA methodology. In the MAF 2020, an explicit disclaimer states that this study cannot yet be considered an ERAA and was not yet in line with the new methodology. The French TSO itself now has other assumptions as to the availability of French nuclear power stations. Moreover, the MAF dataset is not in line with actual unavailability over the last few years. All these data are clearly explained in the reply to the opening decision sent by the Belgian State to the European Commission in October 2020, which was shared here and published online. Your calculation that only 300 MW would be needed in October 2021 is not accurate. Your statements about supposedly blowing up the volume and the French assessment are for your own account. It is remarkable that you talk about the so-called problems in France, while both the historical data and the French TSO themselves point to these inabilitys. The Belgian State guarantees its own security of supply. If we are interconnected, we do so with the best available information and estimation. I have noted that you have problems with this. Then I come to the different scenarios and the communication of Elijah about this. Different sensitivities were investigated by Elia using the EU-SAFE methodology. In the end, they selected the scenario in which four additional French nuclear power stations are unavailable. On this basis, it bases its recommendation as EU-SAFE. Thus, no different situations or sensitivities were added. It's one element that was added. I don't have a problem with this. The TSO has a legal mandate and they carry it out to the best of their ability. Now I come to the question by the chairman of the committee on carbon-neutral society. In order to achieve a carbon-neutral society by 2050, we must first and foremost invest in the production of renewable energy, as well as, of course, increasing efficiency and reducing total energy consumption. In increasing the production of renewable energy, it is crucial to increase flexibility. Flexibility comes from interconnection, from demand side management, from batteries and even from hydrogen. There are initiatives on the table for all these aspects. For the piece of interconnection, Nemo recently joined and in December 2020 I also had the honour to open ALEGrO, the connection with Germany. Meanwhile, we are continuing studies to strengthen the interconnection with the United Kingdom, the Nautilus project. Interconnection with Denmark is also under consideration. Demand side management and batteries are included in the CRM. Around energy storage there are legal initiatives in the context of the transposition of the EMD Directive, the electricity market directive or the fourth electricity directive, to remove further barriers. Hydrogen can provide flexibility and storage in the longer term or between seasons. That is why plans are under way in the context of the relay plan. Now I come to Mr Ravyts' questions. We will continue to analyse the winter of 2024-2025 and we will have to take the necessary remedial action if necessary. Will production surpluses be under pressure in Europe in the coming years? Indeed, for this reason it is good that there is an annual calibration of the volume in the CRM auction and that there are two auctions per delivery year. With regard to the questions on the invoice, in order to avoid an increase in consumer and business bills, I am sticking to the timetable originally proposed, that is, September. As has already been said on several occasions in this committee, discussions on the energy standard and CRM will continue after the summer holidays so that, in accordance with the notification by the Council of Ministers on 5 February, concrete proposals to this effect will be presented to the Policy Coordination Working Party by September 2021 at the latest. Then I'll handle the claim of a lower electricity bill for families and SMEs. Mr Warmoes asked whether a reduction in the wholesale price would constitute an advantage for suppliers. If the wholesale price falls, this will indeed benefit consumers. The advantage of the free market plays here, of course. Belgium has a competitive supplier market. There is no reason to believe that this advantage will remain with the suppliers. Mr Wollants asked a question about the risks. That would undoubtedly be an opportunity to discuss this with Elijah. In the CRM design, the follow-up to the realisation of the capacity is included in the pre-delivery 1 and 2. There is a risk matrix where Elia monitors and tracks every quarter whether the capacity is on track. The CRM also includes mitigation actions. That could be an explanation. It is a study with food and drink on different facets. In the field of security of supply, for example, several aspects are highlighted: the works that are under way and for which we are still waiting for the European Commission's decision on the CRM, confirming that this was the right choice. It is also a question of what will bring us in the coming years. Of course, we are looking very much at October 2021. However, the CRM is available for ten years and there is always the calibration of the volume. An underexposed aspect is flexibility, which was an important aspect of the study for me. We have incredible challenges and opportunities for flexibility, which are also good for security of supply, for example by driving the charging of electric cars smartly or by transitioning to a carbon-neutral society. There is an incredible amount of work to be done in the coming years. In the T-1 auction for October 2024 a very large volume is reserved for those technologies. Allowing this to be rendered and, at the same time, allowing the other decisions, such as electrification of passenger cars, to be combined, is a major challenge. That is where this study also provides clues and challenges. I am also very much looking forward to the debate that will continue on this subject in committee, together with Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u26	Madam Minister, I expressly did not discuss the debate on the various scenarios in my question. The discussion between the PVDA Group and you remind me a little of the old Each's truth programme. That has been shown again today, and I would like to be a little more distant or more cautious in this respect. During the debate, you stressed that we should not mix the adequacy study with the story about the parameters for the CRM. However, the issue of ACER methodology has been continuously present in the debate of the CREG versus Elia throughout the discussion on the CRM volume determination. So I think it is a little artificial if we want to tear this whole thing apart now. However, within this framework, we cannot bring this discussion to the fore. As far as flexibility is concerned, I find the underlying of your policy vision entirely reflected in that part. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the press release on the behaviour of families in the energy market issued by the CREG today. You are proposing very nice models of optimised loading behaviour, but I fear that there will be a considerable deviation from that in the field, for various reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u27	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, we were cut off by a domestic incident because – it seems – of a dishwasher in the Senate, we had to go out. I was therefore unable to hear the beginning of your speech after the return to committee, which makes it a little difficult for me to reply. However, from what my colleague has just said, it seems that the answer you have given is, as always, classic, based on a large number of elements, as if we were discussing in a living room when we are in a parliamentary committee dominated by work that is intended to be political work for all our citizens and the future of our country. I learned, for example, by reading a press article that Elia mentioned this flexibility that is dear to you by saying that with the 600,000 electric vehicles, we would only get another 300 megawatts. This means that, when we look at the whole study – Elia will certainly have the opportunity to answer our many technical questions when we hear its representatives in committee – there is always a clear lack of what we need in terms of production capacity or, in any case, of meeting our needs in the very near future and what you expect. I read the press in both the North and the South of the country. I'm reading your statements. You say you like people who are optimistic and dreaming. Dreaming is important. But it is better to have a sense of reality because this is a question of completely technical subjects, and we cannot give technical problems answers that are linked to dreams. Everyone can have dreams. I too dream that, tomorrow, the electricity will start on a slamming of fingers without having to worry about all this batting. But the truth is that we need to worry about it and you first, and we need to be sure that electricity will be abundant enough to meet all our needs, that it will be affordable and that it will not produce too much CO2. We will discuss this again in future questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister, perhaps I should not have proposed to invite Elijah earlier. Because whether we invite Elijah's spokesperson or Madam Secretary, that's the same thing. You are clearly driving for Elia, Madam Secretary, and especially for the energy lobby. Not surprising, because your cabinet is full of people from the energy lobby: your head of your cabinet, your deputy chief of office, counselors... the majority of your cabinet comes from the energy lobby. The previous speaker has already pointed this out; she forgot that she was sick in the same bed. You seem to be unbundling these things: this is a study, a legal obligation, but we're not going to adjust our auction for it, you say. Moreover, you're intellectually unfair: you spoke of 3.6 GW in the SAFE scenario and 2.2 GW in the BASE scenario. That 3.6 GW in that extreme SAFE scenario is the figure before the economic analysis. After the economic viability analysis, that is only 2.5 gigawatts. In addition, the T-1 auction has to be deducted from that. That means there's no volume for the T-4. In my view, the European Commission can never approve such a thing. I assume that she will also have that study and will find that out. It would be rather strong if they approve of this. For the rest, I establish your eternal confidence in the market: there is no reason why the lower prices should remain with the suppliers, you say, but there is also no reason why they should settle them for the benefit of the customer instead of converting them into dividends. I'm stunned. I find it rather sad for a green minister to play in the map of the energy lobby and use such a langue de bois.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u29	Madam Minister, we will still have the opportunity to continue discussing Elijah's study, but I am trying to get a few things straight. The goal is indeed to be climate neutral by 2050. We have to keep that in mind. This study shows a number of issues, such as the need for additional capacity and public intervention, because the economic viability of that additional capacity is currently insufficient. It is therefore a good thing that a CRM has been drawn out. The study says that this will have a positive effect on prosperity. You're a minister who's been looking for solutions over the past few months, which I like. You have said here a number of times that you are working on the royal decrees, which will comply with the CRM law, but what I see above all is that we need an energy policy that is firm and that is not a stop-and-go policy. A firm energy policy is important to get all the noses, those of investors and energy producers, but also of families, in the same direction as we want to move towards that climate-neutral future and if we want them to regain confidence in that energy policy. I think you are taking the right steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u30	Madam Secretary, Elijah's reports are important. Look how many times the report from 2019 was referred to in this committee or elsewhere. It is good that you have already made a first attempt to address a number of issues. It is also important for us to be able to continue the discussion. Hence the hearing that we will be holding in the short term, which will allow us to deal with other issues as well. One of the points raised by Elijah is that electric cars can reduce the additional need for production capacity, in particular by charging them smartly. Dynamic pricing is also an interesting incentive in this respect. It is good that we are trying to respond to that within your powers, knowing that most of these powers are of course at regional level, which makes the need for cooperation in this country clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Colebunders had been postponed to 55017222C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes's 55017230C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55017916C is converted to a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 55018039C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u32	Mr President, I will put both my questions together. Madam Minister, my first question concerns electromobility, an aspect that has just been mentioned. Prior to the study that was just explained, Elia published a study looking at the effects and additional load of uncoordinated loading. That earlier study included both the case of that country and of Germany. Actually, Elia's pleading for a look at smart charging as well. I believe that this study still included a possible dated outlook, assuming that 9.5% of the fleet is made up of electric vehicles by 2030. Depending on what happens to the company cars, that could be an understatement throughout the story. In that study, Elia assumed that uncoordinated loading could lead to 1,200 MW of additional capacity in the evening peak, possibly linked to the auctions for 2026 and 2027, or at least to the capacity to be provided for those years, depending on the direction it takes. The estimate is that 2.3 GW of new gas plants can be added, but this may not apply for the years after. Madam Minister, are you aware that a decision on commercial vehicles can also have an impact on the capacity of the gas plants for the coming years? Even in Elia's recent report it is assumed that uncoordinated loading will still be a significant part of the loading movements, so that remains an important aspect. What actions can you take within your federal authority to limit that share of uncoordinated loading? Is something already being rolled out in the short term? Have you been in contact with Elia to see how the decision about the company cars is processed? I have tried to figure that out in the framework of the adequacy study, but it was not 100% clear whether the assessments of electric commercial vehicles have already been incorporated in them, in terms of peak loads and so on. Will you ask Elia to do study work on this so that this facet is fully taken into account? Can you indicate whether decisions are expected in the short term? My second question concerns the investment thresholds for the CRM. You have set these investment thresholds, but they differ in part from what has always been put forward in the past. That happened on 4 June. The investment thresholds determine whether a multi-annual capacity contract is possible and how many years that can apply, whether it is 3, 8 or 15 years. I have included the figures in my question. We are setting a very sharp drop in investment thresholds, about 40%, which is a lot. This also means that contracts become longer for the same projects, but also that it takes longer to fall back on the one-year contract after the end of a multi-annual contract. It may therefore take longer to be covered by the intermediate price limit. This also means that those who now offer for the first time are more quickly eligible for a multi-annual contract and will thus be able to focus on the global price cap rather than on the intermediate price cap. Madam Minister, what are the reasons for lowering investment thresholds by 40%? That's pretty consistent, that percentage. Was there also a calculation of the impact of that decision on the cost for the full duration of the CRM? The study of haulogy has also been based on those higher investment thresholds. Was there also a deletion in the area of eligible costs? The investment threshold could be lowered, but a number of costs could be excluded. I didn't find that immediately, but it might have been a point of interest. KB's draft containing the investment thresholds has been notified to the European Commission in the past. Will that happen for this piece, too? Was the European Commission informed that the investment thresholds were reduced by 40%? Those are the questions that were added to this story. Of course there are other CRM questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u33	Madam Minister, the pre-qualification was completed on 15 June. The ministerial instruction of 30 April 2021 around the volume to be auctioned provided an assessment of the ineligible capacity. You wanted to avoid overprocuration in the auction volume and base the demand curve on the most realistic and workable assumption possible. You stressed in committee in May that a correction or update would take place after the completion of the pre-qualification, on the basis of the existing capacity, which may or may not have abandoned operating aid. It's about the KB accumulation. A more accurate assessment would be made after 15 June. To what extent is the figure for the auction volume of 7.339 GW now adjusted after the pre-qualification and the announced more accurate assessment? Can you explain this further? What was the outcome of the pre-qualification in general, in accordance with the possibilities for the file holders outlined by you in your reply on 25 May 2021? I am also thinking of the option of a fast track with the possibility of opting-in or opting-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes's 55019437C and 55019447C are without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u35	Colleagues, with regard to Mr Verduyckt's questions, the violation of a commitment based on the operating rules constitutes a violation of an implementing act of the Electricity Act, for which the sanction possibilities can be found in Article 30 and beyond of the Electricity Act. I have already expressed my opinion that the provisions of the operating rules can be enforced and sanctioned, if necessary, on the basis of those articles. Secondly, that emissions in the electricity production sector should go to 0 faster than by 2050 is indeed put forward in a number of scenarios, but that is not a decisive policy at European or Belgian level. As I already replied to Mrs Buyst on her similar question at the committee meeting on 25 May, the great advantage of our approach is that we can be flexible but always make a conscious and informed decision. If the feasibility study shows that higher ambitions are possible, we must certainly measure them, but if following the roadmaps is difficult to follow, we can also intervene in good time. We actually have everything in our hands. The most important thing is that we always make the most efficient and cheapest choice. I would also point out that the ETS sets the standards for the emission of electricity production at European level. It is important not to want to go faster unilaterally, as this would undermine the competitiveness of Belgian plants and thus also undermine the efficiency of the ETS. With regard to the third question, an inclusion in the operating rules is equally legally binding. As mentioned above, the breach of a commitment made on the basis of the operating rules constitutes a breach of an implementing act of the Electricity Act. As far as Mr Wollants's questions on e-mobility are concerned, I am of course aware of the impact that the rapid development of electric vehicles can have on our security of supply, and I will ensure that this is taken into account in simulations on capacity requirements, including all technologies. For his third and fourth question concerning the Adequacy & flexibility studies, I would point out that Elia bases his work and simulations on the best available public and official data. The hypotheses were presented and discussed in Elia's Task Force on 30 October 2020. In the context of the dimensioning of the CRM for the 2021 auction, i.e. for the delivery year 2025-2026, a scenario of sensitivity was also developed. This was discussed in the CRM follow-up committee and was the subject of a public consultation. A ministerial decision was then taken on the scenario to be considered. This led to the preparation of a calibration report published by Elia in November 2020. This in turn led to the volume decision of 30 April, which has already been explained in detail here. I also indicated in that explanation that the remaining need for the delivery year 2025-2026 will be recalibrated at the T-1 auction. For the delivery year 2026-2027, Elia follows the same method and has meanwhile developed scenarios and sensitivities. These have also been discussed in the CRM follow-up committee and the public consultation is ongoing. Elia discusses in the new Adequacy & flexibility study how to deal with increasing electrification. We have just talked about the positive and/or negative impact in one case or another, with smart loading versus unsmart loading. By 2032, Elijah expects an 18-fold growth of 1.8 million electric vehicles. In 2032, a good choice of 300 MW of additional capacity could be avoided by the time of loading. With the possibility of returning electricity from the vehicle to the grid, known as vehicle-to-grid technology, another 500 MW of additional capacity can be avoided. Both techniques require smart meters. That means that if we handle electric vehicles smartly, that can provide additional flexibility. That is all the more reason to work on the installation of smart charging posts, for example at parking spaces. The CRM is one of the actions I can take as a minister. Innovative market players can develop smart charging techniques and aggregate controllable loading capacity. It is important to roll out the smart charging posts together with the electrification. That is why Mr Van Peteghem's legislation has also defined smart loading posts: the tax incentive will be available only for these loading posts. In addition, with dynamic prices a push can be given in the back. We have provided for this in the transposition of the EMD Directive. The Energy Transition Fund (ETF) also approved a number of projects focusing on how flexibility can be achieved. I would like to make one comment. It remains with the adequacy and flexibility study and in the debates on electric cars in a theoretical exercise. We still have very few large-scale electric mobility. There are examples, such as the loading area in Zelzate, and some companies already opt for a thorough electrification. For me, it means that the assumptions and the hypotheses, which are also in the Elia study, must be permanently challenged and updated, so that we do not have to wait another two years for a new study. The subject needs to be deepened: what does that mean in practice, how can we tap into it? We must play the ball very briefly on this point. Mr Ravyts asked a question about the pre-qualification. The files could be submitted until 15 June, but this did not complete the pre-qualification because now the check is on the content and the calculation of the volume. In parallel, the regulator handles the applications for the contracts of more than one year and the FPS Economy the applications for the production licences. These processes also take time. Only after these verifications will we have a complete view of the actualizations to be carried out. Those updates then go through dummy prayers in the auction. This is explained in the operating rules. Communication on the results of pre-qualification is a delicate issue. I fully understand the question of transparency, but any communication about the results of the pre-qualification may have an impact on the bids and the results of the auction. So that can have a disruptive effect. The follow-up committee, which is my administration, the regulator and Elijah, is currently examining what information can be released when. Then I come to the questions about the investment thresholds. The trajectory of the investment thresholds started in December 2019. The CREG then proposed the investment thresholds: EUR 600 per kilowatt for a capacity contract of 15 years, EUR 400 per kilowatt for one of 8 years and EUR 177 per kilowatt for a contract of up to 3 years. The CREG has been inspired by the investment thresholds in the Polish CRM. Those values were criticised by several market players and stakeholders. Following the public consultation organised by the CREG, the AD Energy commissioned PwC to carry out additional analysis. The report submitted by PwC to the AD Energy on 19 November 2019 concluded that the investment threshold proposed by the CREG to qualify as capacity for a 15-year contract was too high to respect the principles of technology neutrality. The report also suggested alternative thresholds. The CREG did not address this issue, not least in the revised version of the proposal adopted by the CREG after consultation on 4 February 2021. I have decided not to follow the CREG proposal on this point and only on that point and to revise the thresholds for four reasons. Firstly, there are techno-economic considerations. Two years after the CREG's first proposal on investment thresholds, the technology for a CEEC has evolved. Larger power stations with a better efficiency are now generally being built, in particular 63% instead of 60%. This leads to lower CO2 emissions per produced electric megawatt/hour. Since these plants are larger, 800 MW instead of 450 MW, there is a scale advantage on the investment costs. By lowering the investment threshold to qualify for a 15-year contract, larger and more efficient CEECs are placed in equivalent competition with other gas plants, thus achieving the supply security target with fewer gas plants and with less CO2 emissions. The second recital concerns competitiveness. Project developers who are not eligible for a 15-year contract due to an excessive investment threshold may refrain from participating in the auction, due to relatively higher financing costs. This not only reduces the competitiveness of the auction, it also threatens to penalise the competitiveness of the Belgian electricity market after 2025, because fewer different producers will be active. I refer to the recitals in the CRM resolution on the one hand and to the government agreement on competition in the production market on the other. The third aspect concerns social costs. Capital financing can have a significant impact on the bid price. The more large-scale projects for new gas plants are limited to eight-year capacity contracts, the higher bidding prices could be in euros per kilowatt per year. For the period from 2025 to 2040 it could be more socially expensive to award more expensive contracts during the first eight years, with a subsequent extension of those capacities by annual contracts than to immediately draw up 15-year capacity contracts. In addition, lower investment thresholds will facilitate access to CRM for technologies with lower capital intensity, such as batteries, demand management and the lifetime extension of existing CHP. Lower capital costs in the CRM will then lead to lower social costs. A fourth recital dealt with the investment thresholds in the other European countries. An additional economic analysis was carried out on behalf of the AD Energy by the consultant Compass Lexecon, who examined how the investment thresholds in other European countries have been achieved. The study confirms that the UK, Ireland and Italy's examples of investment thresholds could be better followed than Poland's example, as the CREG had done. Compass Lexecon indicates that the current methodology uses the lowest limit of the CapEx range of the best newcomer. In the UK, Ireland and Italy, this was the same as here, and it was estimated at around EUR 300 per kilowatt. In Poland coal-fired power stations were envisaged, which resulted in twice as high values. Meanwhile, the threshold was also reduced in Poland from EUR 700 per kilowatt to EUR 520 per kilowatt. This has led to a downward revision of the investment thresholds. That is detailed in the report to the King by the royal decree. The final royal decision concerns the European Commission to be an integral part of the state aid case. Finally, in the RB, we also provide that the CREG will, whenever necessary and at least every three years, draw up a report on the need to change the investment thresholds. After all, the Directive remains security of supply for as low a cost as possible. Mr Warmoes' questions were without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is a rather technical discussion, but it is a very important one. Our approach to this debate was, above all, the flexible transition that we need to make to a market where renewable energy is central. Even during this flexible transition, we want to put pressure on fossil installations through climate-related obligations. You want that too, and I think that is good, even though technology is constantly improving, as you say in your answer. For our group, it is important that the intentions do not remain a dead letter. It's important that we can intervene. I understand from your reply that this is possible, and that is largely reassuring. I look forward to further debate on this and, above all, to the results of the auction later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. As far as electric cars are concerned, much will depend on the way it evolves further. Uncoordinated loading is still being looked at very brightly. I think that will have an absolute impact. The question is how one can manage this sufficiently, so that the smart loading is part of it. There's still some work to be done. Today it is not as accessible as we would like it to be. We have to take that into account throughout the exercise. With regard to the investment thresholds, you have argued in particular that we should consider whether the period between 8 and 15 years is always appropriate. But I think this knife cuts both ways. It can also have exactly the opposite effect. A number of plants, which would now have 15 years instead of 8 years, will receive a multiple of their initial investment through capacity payments over this period. That was never the intention in the CRM. At the time, the CRM resolution also included a passage to keep the investment costs in proportion to the capacity payments that would be made. If we now find ourselves in a situation where certain investments with a lower investment threshold yield two to three times more, just in terms of capacity compensation, then there is something wrong with the system. Second, let's look at the bottom of the fork. Existing power plants which have to make limited life-long investment may be included in the setting of the investment threshold, would be perfectly eligible for a multi-annual contract. They would therefore fall under the price limit of EUR 75 instead of the price limit of EUR 20. A while ago, in committee, you outlined the original ideas on the global price limit. In addition, it was found that it could be much lower. There we talked about 62 or 63 euros per kilowatt. In the final version this has been raised to 75 euros. Consequently, if the auction does not work properly and if we try to cover ourselves in the field of risks, for which we have always charged EUR 20, we may now be able to move towards EUR 75. This could be much more expensive over the entire duration of the CRM than you are now taking into account. I know there is something to say for both sides, but I still have the impression that this will transfer risks from a number of energy companies to society. That's actually exactly what's happening. I do know that you want to make the auction as attractive as possible to the energy companies. Of course, you do not want to end up in the situation where auctions are going to fail. I think we've gone too far in this direction. The threshold for reaching a multi-annual contract has certainly become very low at the bottom of the margin. This means that I expect that the relationship between multiannual and annual contracts would have been completely distorted. But, as you often say, we will not know until November 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u38	Madam Minister, I may have focused too much on the date of 15 June 2021 as the closing date. It's true what you're saying. I don't work on the operating rules every day either. I understand that the follow-up committee is considering how far we can go in terms of transparency in the coming months. But I expect that we will be more clear within a few weeks, perhaps after the summer recess, before the auction results are known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u39	On 21 May, the CREG published a note on contracts with a dynamic electricity price. It is not an opponent of such contract types, but it warns users. Indeed, the contracts require a more accurate monitoring of consumption and an adjustment of the purchase, otherwise the invoice would increase significantly for the families and SMEs concerned. The challenge is therefore to reduce consumption peaks. It is therefore necessary to encourage consumers to work more actively in the energy market to reduce their electricity consumption. You have already mentioned the digital meter and optimized loading behaviour. Mr Wollants asked how this could be controlled. The legal framework today allows customers and suppliers to place those products on the market and conclude a contract. Several suppliers would already prepare such contracts. In response to the CREG memo, you expressed your support for constructive consultations with the sector to monitor developments in this area. What steps have you taken on this? What progress has been made with the reform and updating of the consumer agreement to become future proof or, in other words, what progress has been made with the protection of consumers in the dynamic development of the supplier market which you seek?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u40	With the digital meter there will also be dynamic contracts; new products will indeed cause new problems, even if they do not necessarily have to. For example, the CREG warns that these contracts allow consumers to respond very briefly to electricity prices, which is a good thing, but that there are also risks involved. Should we leave the market completely free or should we not block the biggest risks? Do you share the CREG analysis? You have announced a consultation with the sector. Has that happened yet? If so, what is the result? Are measures possible? Can we not include minimum and maximum prices in this kind of contract in consultation with the sector? Is that a viable way of thinking?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u41	Mr Warmoes's question is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u42	Today, one supplier offers dynamic contracts, especially ENGIE Electrabel. The EMD Act transposing the 4th Electricity Directive, which was already adopted at first reading at the Ministerial Council, will stipulate that suppliers with more than 200,000 customers will be required to offer dynamic contracts. In any case, therefore, the supply of dynamic contracts will increase in the future. I also need the help of the Regions, of course, because such a contract requires the customer to have a digital meter. The energy transition brings many new developments. As you said, Mr Verduyckt, that should not be a problem. I agree with you that this is an opportunity, especially for consumers who can adjust their consumption, but not all consumers in the electricity market are active consumers who can adjust their consumption. Families with flexible consumption, with heat pumps and electric cars, can find an incentive in dynamic contracts and pricing to respond to an oversupply and thus charge their cars at low prices. However, there are also risks. Peak prices can lead to surprises on the invoice and it is therefore important to ensure consumer confidence and confidence in the market in the contracts. Let me give you an example. Prices on the wholesale market can vary greatly, ranging from EUR 500 per megawatt hour to EUR 3 000 per megawatt hour on the day-ahead market or even EUR 10,000 per megawatt hour on the intraday market compared to an annual average of EUR 30 to 50 per megawatt hour in 2018 in Central and Western Europe. The high risk is that this will undermine consumer confidence, while we need an operation of confidence in the energy transition. For me informed choice is a sine qua non condition anyway. It must be made very clear to consumers what type of price formula they sign, the link with the different markets and the fluctuation of prices. That is why we have given the CREG the role of monitoring not only the market evolution, but also of making recommendations on this basis that will enhance consumer protection. When I received the memo from the CREG on this subject, I wrote to FEBEG asking how she read it. After all, I am still convinced that consultation can take us a long way. Secondly, there is only one supplier with a dynamic contract today, but there will be more. Since there are risks involved, as a minister, I do not want to take a wait-and-see attitude and draw up a proactive framework together with the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I was very disappointed in the FEBEG's response. The FEBEG has replied to me that there must be sufficient commercial freedom. I understand. I don't have a problem with that. In her reply, however, she did not give the slightest incentive to think with me, with us, about a possible framework that does not limit commercial freedom and gives confidence to the market but also guarantees consumer confidence. I take the warnings of the CREG to heart, and I think that we can handle them in a positive and constructive way and that suppliers could also provide good slopes for that. I didn't get it. That means that we may be able to come up with it ourselves. Yesterday, a survey was launched on the revision of the consumer agreement. Energy transition and the new opportunities it brings are an essential part of this for me. I hope that this question will provide more interesting answers, with which I can work together with Mrs De Bleeker, Mr Dermagne and also with Parliament to provide a good framework for dynamic contracts, fulfilling the dual objective of guaranteeing consumer confidence and market confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u43	Madam Secretary, that all sounds very interesting. It is a pity that we cannot continue to debate this in the format of the oral question. You say that the energy transition with all the challenges and opportunities does not have to be a problem, but you have quite correctly recognised that these are consumers who can adapt. I am a attentive follower of your Twitter and Facebook account. You said you'd quit, but you're still active there. I find you more and more courteous. You're going to be a visionary minister. I wonder how many people can get into the story. Why do I say that, Madam Secretary? Today, the CREG developed the results of a major survey on the behaviour of households in the energy market, with still staggering results. I think there is still a long way to go to the consumers concerned. The speed with which you are moving in those nine months is quite reasonable. I think a lot of people ride behind you on the climb of the col. There is no doubt that we will continue to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u44	I do not have the impression that Mr Ravyts has listened carefully to the Minister. After all, it is not the minister who says that there must be absolutely dynamic contracts, the market is moving and the digital meter allows these contracts. There are dangers to this and we must warn people about it. Many whizzkids are very excited about this, because there is a lot possible with smart apps and smart meters. I am not concerned about the whizzkids, I am concerned about my grandmother, who also needs to get a correct energy price and has absolutely no idea of what we are talking about. That is the warning given by the CREG and I hear it in the answer. It is quite clear that we do not need communism, but we also do not need casino contracts. I will certainly follow developments critically, as will the CREG and the Ombudsman. I have not seen FEBEG's reaction; it might be interesting to have it available. I have the impression that the sector is probably thinking mainly of the moments when the meter will be easy for the energy suppliers. At times they will undoubtedly make good money, but even for them there are dangers associated with the story. I therefore regret that they do not understand that. The Minister rightly points out that trust is extremely important, as the mismastered file of the solar panels in Flanders has shown. Consumer confidence is very important and the sector federation absolutely must understand that. We will certainly continue to seek solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u45	Mr President, I should like to ask you a little bit about the eclipse. Madam Secretary, why do I ask them? I follow you carefully and following the partial eclipse, you have of course visited the National Control Centre of Elia in Schaerbeek, which was in operation only a few years ago. It was predicted that during the eclipse solar electricity production in Belgium would decrease by 15%. The increasing share of renewable energy naturally increases the impact on the system of such natural phenomena. There is a loss of 500 MWh named by Elia. Elia, of course, is preparing for it and has prepared for it. The market players were notified. Of course, this is a rehearsal for the next solar eclipse, which is already arriving at the end of 2022. The impact is expected to be greater. Madam Minister, your response was that it would be important to continue to develop new instruments in order to give the system greater flexibility for the integration of variable production of renewable energy. What impact did the partial eclipse ultimately cause? What conclusions were drawn for the preparation of the next eclipse? In what sense will artificial intelligence be used to predict the imbalance, control the tension and support the operators? In what sense does Elia work with the public sector to live up to that ambition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u46	Mr Ravyts, you are following me very closely. I can't say anything or there's already a question. The moral of this story is that all that can be predicted is not a problem. Only what's really unexpected carries a risk. This happened once in this country when all our nuclear power stations were unavailable. As for the eclipse, right now we have a total solar capacity of about 5 GW. The effect of the eclipse was rather limited because at that time solar electricity in Belgium fell by 15%, which amounts to a loss of around 500 MW, in line with Elia's expectations. This is without prejudice to the fact that our renewable capacity is increasing, that the sun is already strong, that it must be possible to anticipate very well when that capacity is completely or partially falling out and that supply and demand of electricity must always remain in balance. That's also Elijah's message. The main challenge, including for the network operator, is to be able to anticipate and respond well. Predicting an eclipse requires no artificial intelligence. That's very well predicted. However, with much more renewable energy, part of the consumption will have to adapt to production based on smart applications. Artificial intelligence can then be effectively used to support operators in their decisions. Elia is experimenting with algorithms specific to balance management and voltage management and to further optimise their congestion management. Within the framework of the Energy Transition Fund, we approved at the Ministerial Council last week projects that focus on artificial intelligence and on digitisation, specifically for offshore wind energy, in order to avoid shutdown. As for your third question, Belgian network operators Elia, Fluvius, ORES, Sibelga and Resa have launched the IO.Energy project, in collaboration with the business world, research institutions and public administrations. It is a unique Belgian pioneer project that aims to enable the development of new services through the exchange of data between all actors in the energy market. The end user is at the heart of this. On 14 May 2021, 30 companies were selected for the second test round. After several workshops, 5 projects on electrical mobility, local energy communities, green (...) and network support services will enter the pilot phase. In the long term, these projects can become new products or services that can change the energy landscape.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u47	Madam Minister, this snack is fueled by a permanent flow of communication which, of course, characterizes many ministers in 2021, but so do you. I am not speaking about this morally or qualitatively. I think it's a learning process, even for myself. I am pleased that you also specify the use of artificial intelligence and the link with the Energy Transition Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u48	Madam Minister, at the meeting of 11 June of the Energy Council, on which you communicated extensively, a number of issues were discussed, including the revision of the TEN-E Regulation. The aim of that revised TEN-E Regulation is to modernise, decarbonise and connect the EU's cross-border energy infrastructure in order to ensure climate neutrality, but also to ensure market integration, competitiveness and security of supply. It appears that 11 priority corridors and three priority areas will be developed and linked through projects of common interest. That is also what European funding is for. Could you give us a little more explanation of the position on the revision of that regulation for trans-European energy networks? TEN-E is, of course, about that. Can you explain to us more about the 11 priority corridors and the three priority areas? Can you explain the Belgian position in relation to the Dutch position as outlined? I have not gone into this now, but there was some discussion in the Netherlands about the facilitation of fossil infrastructure and the link with the revision of the regulation. Another topic was the Council's conclusions on the wave of renovation for Europe. We know that the European Commission presented the strategy on this issue in October, as part of the European comprehensive Green Deal. There was a vote on the sustainability of the built environment and on the measures to double the pace of renovation of buildings in the EU by 2030. What is the Belgian position regarding this wave of renovation? What is the state of European funding and regulation in this area? Renovation should be based on a cost-effective reduction in energy demand and the replacement of carbon-intensive or energy-inefficient heating and cooling technologies. What is the federal contribution in this respect? That's not entirely clear to me. The Council stresses the importance of eco-design of environmental and energy labelling for energy and resources for efficient heating and cooling solutions. What's the federal contribution in that? That is not entirely clear to me either. What is the state of discussion with the regional governments in Belgium in the light of national priorities in terms of feasibility, affordability and acceptance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u49	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, both subjects were indeed on the agenda of the Energy Council on 11 June. One subject has already led to more debate than the other. There has actually been no debate on the renovation wave. That text was ripe, the positions were known and the conclusions were adopted. The trans-European energy networks, the TEN-E, have been debated all day. The debate focused on hydrogen infrastructure and the role of incorporation. A group of like-minded Member States, including the Netherlands and Belgium, showed ambitiously by saying that we should go to a dedicated hydrogen infrastructure. This group consisted of Austria, Germany, Denmark, Estonia, Spain, Ireland, Luxembourg, Latvia, the Netherlands and Sweden. That group has strongly resisted allowing incorporation and has fought to limit as much as possible the period during which incorporation remains possible as an interim solution. That text must now go its own way again, so that is certainly not an end. There was much less debate on the renovation wave in the Council, as the position of all Member States was already known beforehand. With its highly outdated building park Belgium has a very big challenge. The right accompanying measures from Europe and the governments of this country are, of course, a great opportunity for the energy transition. Belgium welcomes the desired extension of the use of EPCs and so on of a building passport. The emphasis on the great need for guidance and advice for owners is also quite right. Although there is already a lot of expertise in the circular use of materials in our country, we can and must take many further steps, in particular with regard to the circular use of building materials and products. The renovation wave strongly focuses on two main axes of the energy transition: the maximum reduction of energy consumption and the sustainability of the remaining energy consumption. The European standardisation of heating, cooling and household appliances and well-known energy labels have already proved their worth. They ensure that producers are encouraged to develop more economical appliances and that consumers can save hundreds of euros on the energy bill over the lifetime of the appliances they buy. My services are responsible for its implementation, its control and the application of the regulations on eco-design and energy labelling. Furthermore, the federal government also promotes the purchase of energy-efficient equipment through the ecocheques system. The effective achievement of the ambitious renovation objectives can only be achieved if there is sufficient support for this. In the development of the policy, therefore, sufficient incentives should be built in for homeowners to proceed to a deep energy renovation. This must not lose sight of the vulnerable position of tenants and people in energy poverty and must therefore be accompanied by social measures. Another important condition for the success of the renovation wave is the rapid need for sufficient executive capacity in each Member State. However, let us make the need a virtue here. If the government makes a timely and strengthened commitment to training and retraining, there will also be a huge opportunity to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. In this way, we will be kept informed of such meetings of the European Energy Ministers. I see no other way of doing this than through this format of oral questions. Mr President, perhaps an exchange of views could also be envisaged. In the Finance Committee, the Minister reports on Ecofin almost every month. As far as the renovation wave is concerned, that's a big issue. The accompanying social measures, as well as the funding of these measures, will continue to provide a lot of discussion at Flemish level in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u51	Mr President, Minister, a number of questions have already been asked. After all, it was unclear what Elijah said about the pre-qualification, what you did with it and what the capacity providers ultimately had to understand. That was urgent because the pre-qualification procedure would start at that time. Everything had to be filed by June 15th. My comments on this were mainly about the cumulation scheme, which was not clear at the time. In the meantime, I have the impression that this ambiguity did not only exist in Parliament, because you issued a ministerial letter on this issue, and also on the emergency generators, on 4 June. That is a reasonable period after it has been tabled here in Parliament and after you have answered questions about it here in Parliament. In the end, the letter was issued nine days before the pre-qualification ended. I see that it has only been published in the Belgian Official Journal, one day before 15 June, which is still very late. If I look at it that way, my question is whether you believe that you have acted quickly enough to give appropriate instructions to potential capacity providers. This problem had been known for a long time at that time, already in May. What consequences can we expect for suppliers who have wrongly filed a file because of the lack of clarity or have wrongly not filed a file? Are such cases known, or are they at most people who have filed a file when they should not have done so? From when can you give an overview of the results of the pre-qualification? I understand that you are reluctant to do so, but at the same time you indicated here in Parliament that the volume might still be adjusted after the pre-qualification exercise has been completed. If there are some opt-out files, there is a possibility that you may have to auction less capacity in the T-4 auction than you are currently expecting. If you do not communicate about this, I do wonder how this is recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u52	Mr Wollants, the preparation of the entire legal framework for the CRM was a piece of work; it is also much more complex than, for example, a strategic reserve. In itself, therefore, it is not surprising that the first application in practice reveals uncertainties. Together with Elijah, the CREG and my administration, who are to organise the mechanism, we have done everything possible to answer and solve the questions raised as soon as possible. There has also been a lack of clarity as to the requirement for pre-qualification in general and for emergency generators in particular. The market players did indeed have questions about this. For some time now, the approach to be followed has been communicated to market players who had questions about this, both by Elijah and by my administration. In order to confirm that approach and also to ensure that there was sufficient legal certainty, I subsequently confirmed that approach in a letter. As you say, it was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 14 June. The text was previously available on the website of the FPS Economy. Our approach was communicated much earlier to the market players who had questions about this and was then consolidated in the redirection letter. I shall then come to your second question. I have no knowledge of files that have been wrongly filed, but since the letter clarifies that fewer capacity holders should submit a pre-qualification file than some originally understood, this cannot have led to the unjustified absence of a file from capacity holders. Thirdly, on 15 June, the submission period for the dossiers ended. This does not mean that the pre-qualification has yet been completed, as explained in a previous reply. There is still the control of its content, the calculation of the volume, the regulator handling the applications for contracts of more than one year and the FPS Economy handling the applications for production licences. These processes also take time. As I said earlier, communication about the results of the pre-qualification may have an impact on the bids and also on the outcome of the auction and their cost. It's market-sensitive information. As has just been said, the follow-up committee is currently considering this issue in order to be able to properly assess what information can be released when.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u53	Madam Minister, I regret that a problem that was mentioned earlier in May does not lead to an initiative until much later. For all this time, Elijah left incorrect information on the website, until there has been a change in the effective recording. I contacted Elijah at the time, to point out that there was a difference between what they had included in their questions and answers and what was said in Parliament. At that time, I received the answer that they would change it once the KB was officially available, when they already knew there was a problem. I have been asked not to involve them in the political game. That is very nice, but in the meantime people have been misinformed and you have had to take an initiative at the very last minute to straighten things out. According to my information, this was finally published on the website on 9 June. You're saying that people knew a lot earlier. According to my information, it's five days, which wasn't much earlier. That's just a shame. Finally, if you're talking about market-sensitive information, I understand all that. However, in a first movement, it was said that all these things would be added as eligible capacity or ineligible capacity, while then it became clear that the prequalification should not allow information to flow through, so that you somehow cannot communicate that the volume is falling. Sooner or later, however, you will have to do so. That too is information that comes from the pre-qualification. I'm struggling with that a little bit. You must do something with that information, otherwise the auction will no longer be tailored to the information you have. If you do not communicate about this, then that is also market-sensitive information. We will continue to follow this, because I believe there are some problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Warmoes on his
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u55	Madam Minister, the initiative "Citizen Wind at Sea" was recently launched to enable citizens to participate in wind energy projects in the North Sea. At the same time, this is also a task in the further development of the tender for the additional parks in the North Sea, because there is a need to strike a good balance to ensure the involvement of citizens if it is to be possible to make an interesting investment. We must also ensure that these projects can be implemented with an interesting business case, so that other resources can be mobilised to ensure that we can realise those parks with the lowest possible public support, or without support from electricity consumption. All these factors are important to my group, but of course we must never lose sight of the different parts. It is currently unclear from the coverage which slopes are being followed by the government and how this form is being implemented. I believe that there is a need for an important reflection exercise here, along with the other factors affecting the financing and the need for operating aid. There are many possibilities for setting the objectives: to maximise capacity in that area, to maximise production of that area, to seek the lowest possible operating aid per installed capacity or per production unit, to maximise revenue for civic investment and/or investment by others, the shortest possible route to the realisation of the projects, to maximise the provision of energy services to the network. These are all options that need to be balanced and where a different orientation can be chosen. I think that is why in 2018 the task force tender offshore has already looked at some of those elements. How do you wish to shape the participation of citizens and SMEs in these projects? Is there any more clarity as to the direction of the tender parameters in order to be able to properly shape both the participation of citizens, the costs for consumers, the implementation period and the rest of the issues? What is the state of play of the whole tender process and what next milestones will be achieved? In earlier communications it was about the KB Tender being planned for the fourth quarter of this year. Is that still a current timetable? When would the windmills in the second zone be able to supply the first electricity?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u56	Mr Wollants, the Council of Ministers recently discussed the first reading of the EMD Act, which is the transposition of the fourth electricity directive. Part of it concerns the transposition of the RED II, the second renewable energy directive, which provides a legal basis for renewable energy communities: citizens who, together with local authorities and SMEs, have the opportunity to become co-owners of the Belgian offshore windmills. This means that citizens will not only be able to invest financially in the future, but will also have the opportunity to own and manage a piece of the wind farm. In the Law of 12 May 2019 establishing a competitive tendering procedure for the construction and operation of offshore wind farms, i.e. the so-called offshore tender, the legislator instructed the federal government to determine how and to what extent civil participation can be organised. The draft law on transposition therefore provides for the possibility of making a link here with the renewable energy community to which offshore wind can be assigned. The way in which and the extent to which citizen participation becomes possible will therefore be reflected in the KB Tender and in the tender documents themselves. In this way, therefore, an answer will be given to the question of encouraging wind farm builders to cooperate with citizens' cooperatives. In terms of timing, numerous pre-studies are in progress and the other pre-studies required are currently being tendered and launched. It aims to complete my administration in the spring of 2023. At the same time, a design is being developed for the expansion of the Modular Offshore Grid (MOG). This is the new offshore transmission network infrastructure to transport from wind energy to the country. The draft new MOG will be laid down in a ministerial decision by the end of this year. The Royal Decree of 12 May 2019 (KB Tender) will define all different tender parameters and how they will be applied. In terms of timing, we plan to submit this KB to the Council of Ministers for approval at the beginning of 2023. That timing has not changed in relation to the previously communicated timing, contrary to what you say. The contents will be known before. However, we must take into account an additional time buffer in the event of a notification procedure in Europe for certain parts. In the coming months, the first decisions to prepare the tender procedure will be taken. In this respect, at the end of last year the CREG was asked to draw up a study containing recommendations on the award criteria and the financial conditions of the tender. All these elements will be combined in a balanced way in the KB Tender. The first wind turbines will hopefully be able to produce energy by the end of 2026-beginning 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u57	Madam Minister, with regard to the KB Tender, on the website of the FPS Economy is a very strange bar that starts in 2021 and runs over 2022. When exactly that comes to a landing, I am less clear. From this I conclude that the first steps for the KB Tender still need to be taken in 2021. There may be some consultation and other issues involved. However, we must ensure that this does not take up too much time so that the RB is put in place in good time. It was also announced at the time that the period of preliminary studies would have been completed in the first quarter of 2023, while preliminary studies still need to be started and even tendered. That's what I'm worried about. I understand that there is also another problem with connection to Ventilus, but that does not mean that all other matters must be delayed. I also think that the way in which you will shape the story and the ambition of Mr Van Quickenborne and yourself to build those things without support will be very strongly linked to the choice you make for the tender parameters. The question then is what direction that will take. I am also told by Elijah that we do not want zero support for the wind farms, because then we have to give up other things, for example the energy service. Perhaps you could discuss that with another contact. After all, there are two camps in the story. Politically speaking, it would be ideal if it could be done without support, but the question is whether that is also the path we are currently taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u58	Madam Minister, with this question I would like to discuss the agreement with the fuel oil sector of 7 May 2021 on the framework for the recognition of the Promaz fund. Funding will take place in two ways, on the one hand through the transfer of the financial surpluses of BOFAS, the service station rehabilitation fund, and on the other through a contribution of EUR 0.01 per litre, which is reflected in the maximum price of fuel oil. The fund estimates that for its operation a budget of up to EUR 512 million will have to be available for a period of 20 years, with an automatic stop to collection when the amount is reached. In order to ensure the financial viability of the fund, the budget needs will be assessed in the interim and the duration of the fund can also be reduced. The competent Flemish minister, Mrs Demir, is now opposed to a price increase by immediately passing on to the consumer, as she believes there is still more than 120 million reserves, which I suspect she is referring to BOFAS. However, according to the sector, these resources are not readily available. Without price increases, the Promaz Fund will not be there, says the sector boudweg. You seem to follow the sector in that reasoning, as I read in the press. You state that the BOFAS resources are not at all sufficient to pay 9,000 leaking tanks, possibly underestimated. There is also the principle that the polluter must pay for a piece. You also point out that the sector has finally agreed to phase out fuel oil, a Flemish measure. I am not so much concerned with the difference in vision between you and Flemish Minister Demir, but with the context. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? To what extent can the agreement still be blocked? When does the Interregional Soil Reconciliation Committee come together to examine recognition? The regional governments are also represented in that committee, but Flanders is preparing some recalcitrants. How will you be represented in the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission? Could you explain your attitude a little more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u59	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, your questions give me the opportunity to explain that dossier again. This dossier deals with a very high level of environmental pollution and a very large financial burden on the shoulders of many Belgians. This dossier has been going on for a long time, but there is a breakthrough now. The current state of play: the sector, as promised, submitted the dossier to the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission (IBC) before the end of June, in particular on 21 June. The IBC then took note of the dossier at its meeting on 22 June. The various members of the IBC are examining the admissibility of the file and should express their views on 3 July. The IBC will have up to four months to accept the file. A meeting was then scheduled in August to prepare the final acceptance of the dossier. This acceptance will be discussed at the IBC meeting in September. The IBC has absolutely the intention to speed things up. In the meantime, for my part, we are working to adapt the programme agreement and to examine when it should enter into force. The funding is linked to that programme agreement. In the IBC, the three regional governments and the federal government are represented. The question in the file is nothing different from the question asked to the previous federal government. At that time, he already agreed to the requirements, namely the contribution of EUR 10 per 1000 litres, to the programme agreement, with a maximum of EUR 512 million. The only additional demand from the sector, which I have no problem with, is that every two years there is an evaluation of the financial situation of the fund. In order to help applicants to receive aid as soon as possible, it is important not only to transfer the EUR 120 million from BOFAS but also to start the collection process, as we want to tackle all historical pollution caused by leaking maslin tanks. The EUR 120 million from BOFAS can only be used once there is an operational fund. Nothing has happened with this EUR 120 million since BOFAS completed its operation. The delay in the dossier has therefore ensured that these resources have not yet been used. If we limit the fund to EUR 120 million from BOFAS, we will help 20% of the people and then we will abandon 80% of the people. We will leave them in trouble and we will not solve the pollution. That's not a solution for me. So it is an en-en-story for me to get to the EUR 512 million that can deal with historical pollution. Finally, the sector has told me to need up to five months to make Promaz operational, by ensuring recruitment of staff, setting up offices, launching calls and so on. This operationalisation can be monitored on the website. I have every confidence that everyone is working on a solution in their own way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u60	Madam Secretary, for once, I will be very rude. Don't be angry, Mr Wollants: this was vintage Zuhal Demir. You have outlined the framework of the dossier and the procedure for recognition by the Committee on Soil Cleaning, for which you are grateful. Of course, my group wants to see as many people as possible helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u61	Madam Minister, it gnaws at those involved, of course, because it is about a lot of money and a lot of uncertainty. They see this as an unclear situation due to political difficulties. Anything that could contribute to a solution, in particular a political agreement, I would welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u62	Madam Minister, the Planning Bureau presents new estimates of total greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium for the period 2021-2026 in its economic outlook. For this period an increase of 12% in Belgium is taken into account. The biggest impact comes from the core exit. The share of gas plants in electricity supply is expected to increase from 26% in 2021 to 30% in 2026. The Minister has included a sustainability clause in the CRM operating rules, whereby auctioning operators of gas plants must undertake to carry out a study on the feasibility of CO2 reduction by the end of 2026. By the end of 2027 they will even have to have a plan in which they will indicate how they will contribute to the transition to climate neutrality by 2050. We also have the recently approved Belgian relaunch plan, which provides EUR 50 million for the development and integration of new technologies to reduce CO2 emissions. The question that interests the press is, of course, who is right, Mr Wollants or the Minister, about the brief introduction of the Planning Bureau. It claims to have taken into account the results until early June 2021. However, the Minister says that this study deals with the policy of the previous government. Next, Mrs Marghem gets angry and points out what she has achieved in terms of CO2 emissions and has set up offshore scaffolding. I won't interfere with that fight. Madam Minister, what is the concrete trajectory of the project in the Federal Relance Plan on the development and integration of new technologies to reduce CO2 emissions? I'm interested in how that goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u63	Madam Minister, the study we have already discussed shows that CO2 emissions will increase significantly by 2026 due to the core exit. You have indicated that this is based on old figures, because according to your cabinet, the end date of the current forecasts of the Plan Bureau.. would be more focused on renewable energy by the federal government in the year 2026.......................................................................................................................................... It's not entirely clear what you're referring to. For example, the objective for offshore wind in the federal government agreement is identical to what was announced earlier and, moreover, it has an effect on the period after 2026, as you indicated in reply to the previous question. On the other hand, it is stated that other choices in the CRM would also lead to other results for the study. I think we should wait and see. Indeed, capacity cannot be converted into production one-on-one. Furthermore, in the context of the CRM, flexibility will ensure that peaks are shifted and that the limited moments in which very large capacities are difficult to deliver are covered by other technologies. With regard to storage and load shifting, it is about a load that is more tailored to the existing capacity, but still for a large part on the controlable capacity. Madam Minister, since you indicate that the figures are wrong, are there any new figures available, expressed in terms of gigawat hour per year? Can you tell Parliament? If there are no figures available today, then when? Do you consider that a reduction in the capacity of the CRM in a proportionate way also entails a reduction in the operating hours of the different types of technology, or can it just give rise to increased hours of rotation for certain power stations? Indeed, there is a shift from high demand moments to sufficient supply moments to cover demand. What increase do you foresee in the field of renewable electricity within the federal jurisdiction, respectively in the period 2021-2025 and specifically in the year 2026?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u64	Mr President, thank you. Since you call us the indomitable, this refers to the comic book Asterix and Obelix, which are the indomitable Gauls. Mr. Ravyts, I wasn't angry. Simply, I like things to be intellectually honest. You've never seen me angry, because that would be another thing. Minister, greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium fell further in 2020. But we know from the Plan Bureau and its prospective studies, which, of course, are based on figures for the period up to June 2020 and which use parameters well known by all those who calculate greenhouse gases in this country until 2026, that its finding foresees a 12% increase in greenhouse gases by 2026. The 2026 horizon is precisely the one where you expect the installation of the MOG 2 and its operation, which will be discussed immediately afterwards (but I imagine you have already addressed the subject). The MOG is not an instrument for generating renewable energy: it enables energy produced by offshore wind turbines to be transferred to land or shared with other countries. This is how two problems arise, and in this respect I agree with my colleague Wollants' question: firstly, what is the percentage of renewable in terms of capacity that you think will be installed by 2025 or (be crazy) by 2026? Secondly, Ventilus and Loop du Hainaut will certainly not be able to transfer to our territory up to our industrial zonings and up to us, consumers, the energy thus produced in the North Sea before the end of 2030 (or at least 2028 at the earliest). Everything we see in the processing of the file leaves a dream and we really wonder if this deadline will be met. In a very honest way, minister, let us try to speak straight in our eyes! What is your specific opinion on this report? Do you have any other figures to follow your thesis? Do we have to go to the Plan Office foresights? So what steps do you intend to take to ensure that the CO2 reduction in recent years (taking the words of a colleague in the press) "is not ruined by your policy now and in the years to come until 2024"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the study of the Federal Planning Office integrates the electricity policy of the previous government with the full core step. The reference scenario used in this study is therefore to keep all seven reactors open, while the advocates of a lifetime extension only refer to the two youngest reactors. Moreover, the government's amended and more ambitious plans on climate and energy policy are not taken into account. For example, in the context of the CRM, the potential for storage and demand management is given a full opportunity. The study reiterates the importance of an energy switch to 100% renewable energy and climate neutrality in the new policy. The Plan Bureau bases its electricity supply on the National Energy and Climate Plan submitted to the European Commission in 2019. In the scenario with additional measures "LAM', "With Additional Measures' - are the outdated assumptions for renewable energy growth, which do not take into account the changing European framework. In view of the increase in European climate objectives towards a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030, the share of renewable energy in the European energy mix will also increase. The European Commission is coming forward with a proposal to revise the policy framework under the Fit-for-55 package in mid-July. The federal government wants to contribute constructively to this and accelerate renewable energy and interconnection. The study does show that electricity consumption will increase with the alive economy, even faster and stronger than expected. Consumption has therefore been adjusted upwards, but the old assumptions have still been used for the availability of electricity. After taking into account increased imports of electricity, the production of electricity from gas plants is a closing term for the experts at the Planbureau. In their assumptions, this means that the consumption now supplied from nuclear capacity is replaced entirely by the production of gas plants. That is also the assumption in the 2019 NEKP. During that period no volume decision had been taken on the CRM and no framework for the CRM had even entered into force. Nor did we have any implementing decisions that could lead to a volume decision. There is today. The Federal Planning Office does not take into account the decisions taken by this new government in April 2021. The replacement capacity decision shall minimise the number of gas plants. Therefore, assuming what we know about existing capacity and new capacity, up to two to three, demand management and storage will be heavily used. The sustainability clause is therefore not taken into account. In any case, five of the seven reactors will close. All parties and the operator agree on this point. This means that in all cases there will be a need for reduced flexible capacity, even if some reactors are extended or if a new reactor is to be created. Following our finding that some of the basic assumptions are overtaken by events, I contacted the Federal Planning Office. I'm not the type of person to sit down, my arms crossed to criticize the experts because I don't like the results presented. I'm starting the dialogue. I'm checking the facts and I'm looking for solutions. The Federal Planning Office confirmed my remarks and informed me of its intention to update the study. It is my responsibility that neither the energy experts of the Federal Planning Office nor the Energy DG participated in the drafting of the report. This explains, in particular, that our decision on volume has not been taken into account. The Federal Planning Office intends to update this study to reflect all current elements. To this end, my team will meet with the team of the said Office in the coming days. I really want to be very clear about this, because there was confusion about that. Yes, the Federal Planning Bureau uses up-to-date figures when it comes to increasing electricity consumption, but its implementation is based on the NEKP, as presented in 2019, so of a previously decided policy without taking into account the evolution of the CRM. I am very pleased that the European Commission has approved the Belgian Relance Plan and that Belgium is one of the best students in the classroom in terms of contributing to the climate objectives. Keeping in mind the long-term vision, we see that, in addition to no-regret investments in renewable energy, we need to become involved in offering flexibility in the future energy system. For 2050 hydrogen plays an important role in the field of flexibility, also to make production CO2 free. For gas plants pyrolysis can be applied. In pyrolysis using methane or e-methane, not only do we no longer have CO2 emissions, but we even get carbon sinks, which means negative CO2 emissions. Hydrogen therefore belongs to two of the projects submitted within my competence under the relance plan, on the one hand EUR 95 million for backbone hydrogen and CO2 and on the other EUR 50 million for general resources for molecules, and on the other hand EUR 10 million for the production and use of hydrogen. What's the timing of this? A call for projects will be made at the beginning of 2022. In the same year the award will also be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for that last clarification. Mr Wollants, you expressed yourself rather lapidary in the context of the Planbureau's study, saying that the nuclear exit wipes out ten years of climate policy at one stroke. I myself wouldn't dare, I'm a little more cautious about linking that to that study. I am not saying that you claim that this core trip is completely wrong, but based solely on Belga, on the passage of 2 June 2021, I find it rather short-sighted. However, you will undoubtedly provide the Minister with an excellent answer in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u67	Madam Secretary, my questions sounded slightly different from what you have said. In this sense, you still link the volume decision in the CRM to CO2 emissions. However, it is not because you lower the volume that will also automatically reduce production with gas. In the past we sometimes saw that capacity was used for very limited hours of rotation, 230 hours a year. At other times, consumption was just a lot lower than the capacity we had. Part of what the reduction in that volume in the CRM does is to ensure that the plants that are being built run just more hours. That is why I asked you whether you believe that if you lower capacity, that means that gas production will be reduced in an even way. This would mean that the whole curve would decrease, but that by focusing more on storage and demand side response there would actually be no effect on the times when less power is required. Of course, that is not the case. That is why I specifically asked you to provide me with the figures in gigawattuur for gas production. However, I have to understand from your answer that there are no such figures. You simply assume that by lowering the volume there will also be less gas produced automatically. However, it is quite possible that the existing and the new gas plants will simply run more. If they run more, then of course they also produce more CO2 per gas plant. Nor have I heard you say what renewable electricity will be added in the periods I have indicated. As far as I know, there's no power coming in. The first step you are taking is the further development of the next zone offshore. But that doesn't happen until after 2026. Therefore, it will not actively emerge from the figures exactly what the production in the field of green electricity is. That's a discussion that we'll have to look at how the Planning Agency is dealing with. If you say that we will remove some megawatts from the CRM, which means that we can reduce production to the same extent, then I fear that that is not true and that we cannot go on with it. Finally, I know about what data Elia's Adequacy & flexibility study, which we have just discussed, is based on. Then we'll get to about the same frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u68	Mr President, I can only agree with Mr Wollants. It's a recurring thing about you, minister. You mix the concepts to pull you out of thickness. Of course, no minister of energy in this country turns his thumbs and does not cross his arms. Of course, I welcome the fact that you are going to meet with the Federal Planning Office and are discussing with him and the experts with whom you are working to refine these figures that I am looking forward to with great interest. But if you continue to systematically mix concepts in all subjects, it will not be possible to continue. In this case, your gas power plants will necessarily work much more than before. Previously, they were, for some, in the strategic reserve. Remember that! Sometimes they weren't even called to operate for a year. And now they are going to be, both the old and the new, in a situation of producing almost all the time. And, if they produce almost all the time, they burn gas almost all the time and necessarily make CO2. It's as simple as that! We must stop taking the indomitable Gauls we are for idiots who do not understand the situation. We need to speak vis-à-vis ourselves, very clearly, in full transparency. What we're waiting for is numbers. You're going to work with the Federal Office of the Plan. You will come back to talk about it and we will discuss it quite calmly but "balance" like that storage, demand management without any numbers, it has no interest. This has no interest and it does not allow us to build together the electric mix of the energy transition. I will come back to that with my question on monitoring just after this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u69	Mr President, Minister, on 13 November the FPS Economy launched a call for projects under the Energy Transition Fund for a total budget of EUR 25 million with a special focus on thematic axes 1 and 3. Last Thursday, the Council of Ministers also took a decision on the granting of grants to 14 projects. Hence my questions. Has this call for projects been successful in mobilising the sector around these thematic priorities? How do these projects contribute to the energy transition of our country? Is the current functioning of the Energy Transition Fund optimal? Do you intend to adapt it for future calls for projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u70	Mrs Buyst, on your first question on thematic priorities, the answer is yes. This year's call for projects has attracted the attention of the sector. The FPS Economy has received 60 project proposals for a total amount of more than 80 million euros, but with a maximum total support of 25 million euros as this is the amount paid annually to the Energy Transition Fund. So this project call was a great success. Moreover, the projects submitted this year are clearly focused on renewable energy and on security of supply. The thematic axis 2 "nuclear energy" was only addressed in 5 out of 60 projects submitted. They were divided among the different thematic axes as follows. Thematic axis 1 "renewable energy sources in the Belgian exclusive economic zone of the North Sea and biofuels": 25 project proposals including 13 for offshore wind energy, 7 for hydrogen and 5 for biofuels or alternative fuels. Thematic axis 2 "nuclear energy applications": 5 project proposals. Thematic axis 3 "supply security and grid balance": 30 project proposals. How do they contribute to the energy transition? They each do it their way. Some are focused on using hydrogen to make our economy climate neutral by re-using gas infrastructure for the transport of these molecules, or on developing a register that allows the exchange of guarantees of origin for e-fuels. An R&D project on Power-to-X will also see the light of day thanks to this fund. Other projects are aimed at making the most of our renewable potential in the North Sea. One example of this is the development of cooperatives to mobilise citizens' savings to make the most of this energy and the financial revenues it generates. Another project is interested in the operation of sunshine in the North Sea, while a third project aims to exploit wind energy with kites, in addition to wind turbines. Support is also provided for the development of new models for the prediction of wind production which can also facilitate the operation of the grid. That is the link with the question that has just been asked about digitisation and artificial intelligence and how this can contribute to this. This also means that we can avoid curtailment and ensure that there is sufficient production in the existing first zone. Other projects concern the functioning of the electricity network in a system increasingly based on renewable energy. Examples are the demand management and flexibility projects and the projects to optimise the functioning of the electricity grid using the most modern algorithms. So the issues addressed are fully in line with today's challenges to achieve the energy transition, and I am very pleased with that. As regards the current operation, as demonstrated by this year's call for projects, the sector and the research institutions can be motivated by the current mechanism for innovative projects contributing to the energy transition. However, its implementation is time-consuming for the FPS Economy and we need to see how we can improve this. So I intend to revisit this under the motto of preserving the good, optimising where we can and bringing it even more into line with the questions that exist in the context of the energy transition. I believe that we need to make sure that this is even more demand-driven. As stated in the government agreement, those projects should be supported that effectively support the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u71	Madam Secretary, allow me to look back on my previous career today, June 29, a day when many students collect their reports. I have spent 19 years teaching scientists who want to work with a lot of innovative projects. I am pleased to see that we have a minister who wants to invest in research and innovation and those innovative ideas that these students have when they are 18 years old and dream of being able to carry them out. It is good that you have been able to select 14 innovative projects that help us achieve the energy transition. You have listed projects such as the use of hydrogen, the renewable potential in the North Sea or the exploitation of sun in the North Sea. I myself am not in a position to develop projects for this, but I am glad that we want to encourage the sector to do so. I am of course also pleased that you want to evaluate the selection of projects. In this way, the Energy Transition Fund can contribute even more to innovation in the future and the switch to 100% renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u72	Mr President, I am pleased to hear from Mrs Buyst and the Minister about the Transition Fund which I have created and which continues to take effect until 2025, to support innovative production and storage projects. But here, we agree with the above-mentioned question, which finally goes through all the questions that are currently being asked, is uncertainty and ambiguity as regards the permanent monitoring of security of supply and prices. Unfortunately, this uncertainty and ambiguity continue. This is not the first time I've asked you the question. We have still not seen what permanent monitoring you have put in place to at least continuously monitor, on a regular basis, security of supply in the country and prices. As I said earlier, it is also known that prices in forward markets are already increasing considerably. Time is running out, Madam Minister, and, as a Parliament, we want clarification at last. What guarantees can you offer in terms of security of supply and prices on a numerical basis that is based on an instrument of monitoring that is requested of you and that is part of your specifications in the government agreement? Now, too, the question of CO2 will be added. We heard her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u73	Thank you for the questions about monitoring. The coalition agreement contains a number of elements which I would like to read again with you. I quote from the coalition agreement the following three statements: 'First, citizens and businesses deserve an absolute guarantee of security of supply. In order to avoid uncertainties, the government will set up a continuous monitoring of production capacity in close consultation with AD Energy, CREG and Elia. Secondly, prices are also subject to continuous monitoring. Third, at the end of November 2021, a full report on the selected projects will be submitted to the Government after the auction. In particular, this report examines security of supply and the impact on electricity prices." The government agreement therefore asks me to do two things: on the one hand, a continuous monitoring of the continuous production capacity, the impact on security of supply and the price of electricity, and on the other hand, a report on security of supply and the impact on prices by the end of November 2021 on the basis of the results of the first auction of the CRM. The last element contains a clear deadline, namely the end of November this year. A report based on the results of the auction cannot be produced until the results of the auction are known. As stipulated in the CRM's operating rules, Elia will produce a full auction report by October 31, on which we will continue to work to assess the impact on security of supply and prices. As far as the ongoing monitoring of security of supply is concerned, my starting point is that this should be put in place as soon as possible. This is why work has already begun for some time, in close consultation with DG Energy, CREG and Elia (as also stipulated in the government agreement), which makes sense because these bodies are already doing a lot to monitor security of supply and prices. In addition, all this information is available to the public on the websites of Elia, CREG and DG Energy. I invite you all, if you find time, to surf these sites. You will be flooded with accurate, detailed and real-time information. This is perhaps the problem: an overload of information spread over three sites. That is why DG Energy is currently working on a web page that brings together all the key information on security of supply and market prices. As work progresses, this site will be available online in October 2021. This will be a dashboard with a look at the current security of supply situation with the demand for electricity and the availability of power plants and interconnections. It will provide an overview of the previous month and highlight events or developments that have an impact on security of supply and prices. It will also look at the availability of the most expected production and interconnection facilities and the overview of the most recent studies. This is a large-scale work. Agreements on data sharing between the different parties are being finalized. In September, the processes and website will be tested so that we can normally present the website in October, along with the next winter outlook.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you. Like you, I am particularly familiar with page 57 - in the French version - of the government agreement, where one can see that, if the monitoring reveals the existence of an unexpected security of supply problem, the government will take appropriate measures such as adjusting the legal timetable for a capacity of up to 2 GW. The word "nuclear" has been forgotten, probably in modesty, but that is exactly what it is. Of course, if you have a tool that allows you to track security of supply and prices as they progress, as it meets the government's guarantee that all citizens, consumers and businesses, will always have enough electricity at an affordable price, you can in part determine whether a problem is unexpected or expected, and that is quite easily. Therefore, I hear from your answer that you are working on it, which is a good thing. On the other hand, I know that we have not yet really seen the outline of what this can be, and I would not like it to be a snapshot of a situation, that of November 2021, where all nuclear power plants operate, where all production capacities operate, and where in fact, at that time and even the month before or after, there is no unexpected security of supply problem. Monitoring is a dynamic instrument that continuously follows a situation and allows us to reflect on a situation in motion, i.e. also in projection towards the future. Naturally, we are not talking here about a supply for a resident or a consumer. And even if we could, we would be wrong, because throughout the year every consumer and every company must have the guarantee that the electricity they need will be present. We are talking about 11 million people who are all consumers, who are moving, who are warming up and who work in business. They need to know, now and later - and in any case under your government - whether they will have enough electricity at an affordable price. This is the object of the monitoring. This is what will allow you to see if there is an unexpected or expected problem. In any case, you know what I think: from now on, we know that we will have an expected problem of missing capacity that will have to be solved. My party is saying that we must first look at this problem at a time when we know it, immediately, in full transparency, rather than waiting for November to say, by surprise, "Oh! There is an unexpected problem of capacity and security of supply." I understand that the agreements are being adhered to in the letter, but I also understand that the agreements have been formulated in such a way that we do not say things clearly and ultimately put people, businesses and consumers in fear and difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u75	Mrs Marghem, you have far exceeded your speaking time. From now on, I will see to it that everyone respects the speaking time, especially since it is already 6:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u76	Mr President, I will make an effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u77	Madam Secretary, in the press you have noted that, for supplying green hydrogen, you are looking primarily at the Sultanate of Oman and at African countries. The reason for this is the cheaper generation that is possible in those warm countries. The question is, of course, whether a concentration of purchasing policy in this area is sensible. In the past, oil dependence on the Middle East has often been referred to as a weak position, which has also caused conflicts over the years. Many countries now seem to be looking at these regions again for the supply and production of green hydrogen. Stability also proved to be an obstacle for a number of regions in Africa. Think of the Desertec project, which had a similar purpose, albeit with electricity, but which could not be achieved by, among other things, the opposition that those regions have a poor or even no energy supply but that they would export green energy to the western world, which somewhat undermines local support. In terms of diversification and the possibility of producing hydrogen partly locally, some elements seem to be lacking in this story. I therefore have the following questions. What is the specific strategy in the field of hydrogen supply? Is it effective to be fully focused on the Middle East and Africa? The study recently carried out by your colleague, Mr Khattabi, seems to point in that direction to import 100 percent. What about local production? Domestic production is a regional competence. Can you confirm that? Do you see a role for production in the North Sea? What is the strategy for diversification of supply? Which regions or technologies should play a role in this? After all, it is not always about the same technology. Are you following a strategy with your European colleagues to reduce dependence on too few producers? Are there any lessons to be learned from our oil history there? What steps do you intend to take in the coming months in this area? Are you also planning contacts with your regional counterparts, which are also partly competent, especially for hydrogen? Finally, what progress has been made with the study on the distribution of competences in the field of hydrogen? Can you present it to Parliament already? I understand that there are already alternative studies going around, so I'd like to put them next to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u78	Mr Wollants, your first question concerns the hydrogen and third party diversification strategy. In Deloitte's study on the role of gaseous energy carriers in a climate neutral Belgium, it is clear that Belgium will also have to invest in the import of green hydrogen. We can only produce part of our own, given the spatial constraints in Belgium for renewable energy, which we will also need mostly electric. The study was interesting to me because it showed that the own production and imports have an influence on each other. They're almost communicating vessels. This is also an important insight for policy. The import coalition provides a good overview of the regions, also outside Europe, where green hydrogen can be produced cheaper through sunshine, for example in northern Africa, but it is not limited to that region. In the interest of our security of supply, it is important that we look at different countries and set up this supply chain, together with the industry in Belgium, which needs the hydrogen to meet the objectives of climate neutrality by 2050. It is important that we coordinate supply and demand. Not only cheap solar energy, but also wind energy, both onshore and offshore, can produce hydrogen competitively, creating an opening to other countries, including those bordering the North Sea. These aspects will also be included in the federal hydrogen vision that is still in preparation. I am working with colleagues from the Regions on a clear note on the division of competences, so that the uncertainties can be clarified and we can each take the necessary measures at our level. For production on the North Sea we focus on electricity. The fact that part of this production, albeit offshore, though onshore, can be converted into hydrogen, can add value to contribute to the flexibility needed in our future energy system. I am open to innovative projects in this area. These projects can also apply to get support in the context of our call for projects in the relay plan, but we need not only molecules but also electrons. The priority for our own offshore production is electricity and not hydrogen production. You also had questions about the dependence of a limited number of producers and the actions in the coming months. I would like to point out that we are still heavily dependent on imports of fossil fuels and that switching to hydrogen carriers is also an opportunity to move towards new collaborations. Of course, that market still needs to develop, but the projects are already there and I can support them by making agreements between countries at political level, both inside and outside Europe. There is also consultation with other countries in the framework of the Pentalateral Energy Forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u79	Madam Minister, in the long term, there will also be a local possibility to produce. Let us take a look at the growth rates for green electricity from solar and wind energy. Some have expressed the ambition that we should be able to produce 20 GW or more electricity in the coming years. This will lead to some peaks at times when we are not using much power today. It is therefore necessary to leave open the possibility of dealing with these surpluses, with the kind of capacity that can be stacked together and possibly supplemented by an area in the North Sea between the North Sea countries, where additional offshore wind energy production is still possible. They do not want the price of energy to collapse completely, because that is of course not good for those who invest in it either. In that case, a local production of hydrogen seems to me to be an option that we should look at. You say that we should also look at other trade relations and the like, but the fact that we are moving more towards renewable energy has very often been used in the past to ask whether it is normal for us to introduce millions of euros in our trade balance. If we are simply greening it and we are importing it instead of oiling it, then I wonder if that is the way to go. We must seize this opportunity to diversify and have the courage to look at the bigger picture. We must also do business worldwide and not just look at the warmest countries. If I'm not mistaken, Oman, for example, is still an absolute monarchy. Today's sultan doesn't seem to be doing that very badly, but that doesn't mean anything about his children or grandchildren. So I'd like to watch out for that. When we began to import oil from that region, it all went well, but a few wave wars later we thought differently. So I'd like to warn you about that. Finally, the powers will be clarified sooner or later. I have already studied this and it doesn't have to be much more complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u80	Mr President, Minister, it has now become known that the so-called statistical transfer of energy to correct the shortage is complete. The press spoke of 1.3 terrawattage for a price of 18.5 million euros. That amount is much lower than what you requested in the budget. We can only be satisfied that this comes close to the price paid, for example, in Flanders and the Netherlands. However, the correct amount seems to be a little lower than what you have been talking about in committee, unless it is a serious rounding error. I have a number of questions to ask. Can you outline the details of that agreement? In what way did the right volume come about? What evolutions have led to the 1.3 terrawattuur? How do you see the short-term evolution of renewable energy, for which the federal government is responsible? I think I have already asked that question twice. If you can give me a concrete answer to that now, I invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u81	Mr President, Mr Wollants, Mrs Buyst, the context is well known. We have a target of 13% of renewable energy in final energy consumption by 2020. There is an internal Belgian burden sharing for the period 2013-2020, with the federal government contributing 8.350 GWh renewable energy, de facto via offshore wind. Due to a later delivery of the last wind farms, the federal government had an initial estimated deficit of 1,550 GWh compared to the target of 8,850 GWh. In addition, the final energy consumption in Belgium, i.e. the denominator of the calculation of the share of renewable energy, is higher than estimated at the time of burden sharing, even when the impact of the COOVID-19 crisis is taken into account. As a result, and because renewable energy targets are recorded in absolute terms and not in relative terms, even if each of the four entities achieves its objective, an additional national deficit has arisen compared to the target of 13%, for which efforts still have to be divided between the federal government and the regions according to a key to be agreed. Estimates early this year showed a Belgian deficit of about 2,200 GWh. In order to avoid default, we are obliged to compensate for this deficit through the purchase of statistics in other EU Member States. The contract was negotiated with Finland for an amount of 13.5 euros per megawatt hour, divided into two shutters: a fixed quantity of 1.376.5 GWh to compensate for the federal deficit compared to the target of 8.350 GWh, an optional quantity, to be activated as a result of a possible change in federal production figures, as Eurostat still has to validate production figures by the end of this year, and of a federal State contribution to closing the additional national deficit, currently estimated at 1.950 GWh. Discussions are ongoing and no agreement has yet been reached. I come to the determination of the volume. Due to the later than expected delivery of the last wind farms, the initially estimated deficit was 1,550 GWh compared to the target. The final production figures of offshore wind farms, which are still to be validated by Eurostat in November, reached 6,973,5 GWh, resulting in a deficit of 1,376.5 GWh. By acting quickly and making contacts, I have been able to maximise the price of this unfortunate operation in the given market conditions. Member States or parties that still have to enter the market will have a great deal of trouble in terms of lower prices. Then there is the evolution of the federal contribution to renewable energy production. The federal government contributes in various ways to increasing the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption, both in the numerator and in the denominator, both directly and indirectly. Directly in the counter is offshore energy production. These include offshore wind and a pilot project with floating solar panels. The federal energy saving measures, with, for example, an annual renovation rate of 3% for federal buildings, the sustainable procurement policy with a target of 50% sustainable purchases, the federal data sheets with the energy savings measures based on Article 7 of the EED or Energy Efficiency Directive, the greening of the federal fleet, the taxation of sustainable mobility, with zero-emmission company cars and the mobility budget, the product policy and the implementation of the Ecodesign Directive and the Energy Labelling Regulation. I come to the indirect measures in the counter. We are currently identifying what measures within the federal powers can leverage the development of renewable energy in the regions. You have repeatedly asked me about this at the beginning of my term of office, about the federal government buildings and the federal grounds. Several federal energy saving measures were taken into account in the calculations of the measures notified by the Regions to the Commission under Article 7, namely the renovation of public buildings. This obviously includes energy saving in the objectives of the regions, not in the federal government. My policy, in the context of the update of the NEKP, aims to expand, increase and bring forward in the time of various measures within the federal powers, in the context of the timeline of the NEKP, which is 2030. The calculation, if possible, of the impact of these measures on the evolution of the share of renewable energy in final energy consumption will be done in the context of the update of the NEKP. The timing for this was set on November 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This is a much better situation than the one we were faced with when we were talking about the budget, where we were a little concerned about the amount and certainly the price per megawatt. It is good that you do some exercises to see how extra can be contributed. It is true that I have tried a number of times to add a number of things to that. I am also pleased that these matters are now being included. The article in Humo remains largely right in that area. At the same time, we want to contribute to this from Parliament. We are also discussing in our committee Mr De Maegd's motion for a resolution on federal government buildings. It must be possible to move forward, with the support of Parliament and with your partners in the government, to set the bar a little higher than it might have been at the beginning of the legislature. We follow that further, but we're glad it's heading in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u83	Madam Secretary, fictitious power that we will never see purchased, of course, remains a shame. It is, of course, a good thing that we can make the best possible deal, in which you have succeeded. I have said it a number of times this afternoon, we must keep in mind what the stakes are, namely: the switch to 100% renewable energy. It is quite clear that this federal government, with the energy policy you have outlined, wants to focus on our own strengths. One of these own strengths is indeed offshore development. The lead time of such offshore development is five to six years. So if we were a little short, perhaps we should ask ourselves whether there has been sufficient preparation in the past. Good governance means not only defining matters for this legislature, but also looking at what can be set in motion for future generations and future governments. So I am very pleased that this federal government is putting on the table a plan to boost the share of green electricity so that we can invest our money in our own economy instead of giving it to other countries without getting anything in return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament 55019398C by Mrs Leen Dierick is postponed. Question No 55019402C by Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u85	Minister, we have just heard the desire that we share in the previous government because we have installed more than 1,500 MW of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea. We have also prepared the follow-up since we voted for a global framework that allows you to launch public procurement to cover another part of the North Sea with offshore wind turbines as quickly as possible. To bring all this energy produced into our North Sea, there is this energy island, the MOG2 - correct me if I'm wrong - which will allow not only for a hub, a platform to transport the electricity produced in our North Sea but also, in the years to come, the electricity produced by other offshore parks, that is, in other territorial seas that are close to our territorial sea, the North Sea. The timing is very tight. You want to see this realized before August 2026. It's ambitious. I said earlier the difficulty of transporting to our territory in relation to the Ventilus project and the Loop du Hainaut. How do you feel about this timing of the MOG2? Can you describe the project very precisely, its added value and the various stages of implementation envisaged? What measures will you take during the period you are in charge? What is the timeline for these accomplishments? Indeed, this will obviously go beyond the scope of your mandate. Your colleague, Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne, announced in November 2020 that the capacity of wind turbines in the North Sea will only be doubled by 2030, which is not very encouraging. Therefore, what elements make an acceleration possible for a wind turbine installation in the North Sea in this second park that I launched before 2030 and, preferably, before August 2026 so that the MOG2 serves something?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u86	Mrs Marghem, thank you for your questions. First of all, I would like to recall the general principles of the Energy Hub that have already been mentioned during the February 9 and March 2, 2021 committees. The project to develop a multifunctional energy island is part of the list of projects approved by the federal government as part of the Belgian Recovery and Resilience Plan. This island will be an energy island in the Belgian part of the North Sea with a useful surface of five hectares. It will be built within the limits of the second renewable energy zone: the Princess Elisabeth area. The main objective is to achieve the transmission of energy generated in this second area of Belgian offshore wind turbines. This island could play another important role in renewable energy. It is currently under investigation: the realization of the interconnection with other countries around the North Sea. But in any case, this island will not be destined for energy production. Energy production will come from new wind farms to be built in the Princess Elisabeth area, for which a competitive trend will be launched in mid-2023 (which I announced in a previous question). The next important step is to take charge of the design of the Green Design Ministerial Order. The project, scheduled for the end of the year, will formalize the design of the offshore network that will be chosen and built. In the same period, the state-of-the-art design for the infrastructure to be built will also be requested. Once this step has been completed, Elia will launch a public tender for the construction of the energy island. At the same time, the impact of this structure on nature needs to be studied in depth, a task that has already begun at the present time. In collaboration with the scientific institutions and my colleague and minister of the North Sea, we are studying how the impact of infrastructure on nature can be kept as low as possible. We are preparing the necessary permit applications. Where appropriate, additional scientific research will be carried out in order to draw up a complete map of the impacts on nature. The construction phase of the island infrastructure will begin as soon as possible after the first quarter of 2023 and will have to be completed by the deadline set by Europe for the implementation of the projects, i.e. by August 2026. Next, the construction of the transmission facilities will begin, so that they will be completed when the first wind farms are ready to produce energy. As for offshore capacity, 2.3 kilowatts are already produced in Belgium. The capacity will reach 4.4 kilowatts in the Princess Elizabeth area. As indicated in the schedule, a first phase will only be carried out in 2026-2027 and a second in 2028, depending on the progress of the network connection files.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u87	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister very briefly for her answer, which I will examine. I'll come back to her for a few more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u88	Questions Nos 55019414C and 55019415C by Mr Thierry Warmoes are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u89	Mr President, I have indeed read the declaration of intent between 4Sea and the Belgium Offshore Platform with great interest. There is a tension between, on the one hand, the production of renewable energy at sea, which we need to achieve our climate ambitions, and, on the other hand, the protection of our nature in the North Sea, which is also crucial in the context of global warming. That tension field is an interesting but complex fact that can only be addressed by entering into dialogue and working together. The best of both areas must be realised in this way and there must be a situation in which both climate and nature can benefit. I am very grateful for the fact that the Belgium Offshore Platform and 4Sea have entered into these talks with each other and that they are now jointly proposing how the development of wind in the Belgian part of the North Sea can be good for nature and the climate. As you rightly say, part of the Princess Elisabeth zone is located in Natura 2000. Another part is adjacent to Natura 2000. A third part is further away in a less nature sensitive area. In close cooperation with the North Sea Minister, we are currently fully engaged in additional scientific research into the natural impact of wind farms at sea. Not only to know this impact, but also to understand how the negative impact can be kept as low as possible. Of course, we want to support and increase the positive impact as much as possible. I fully support this research, its necessity and importance. I have recently released an amount of EUR 200,000 for this, some of the funding needed to complete the investigations, which had not yet been found elsewhere. In addition, I have also provided a budget of EUR 1 million to promote biodiversity in the energy island as part of the relay plan. To move forward together, we need to focus not only on energy but also on nature. I will make sure, again in close cooperation with the North Sea Minister, that the outcome of these investigations is translated into the terms of the tender and into the environmental permit for the construction of wind farms, including elements of nature, including design, which was also addressed in the declaration of intent. The answer to the question about entering into dialogue is actually already contained in the answers I have just given. A dialogue with nature associations and the various parties, active in the sector, is important and particularly valuable to me. This is already happening. I will certainly continue to maintain this throughout the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The keyword in your answer was collaboration. If we want to achieve climate objectives and nature objectives, cooperation is indeed incredibly important. I'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic529x.u91	We have no news from Mr De Smet for his question No. 55019452C.
