ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u1	Els Van Hoof, President: Colleagues, I suggest that we start this joint Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Defence Committee. We have four excellent guests at this exceptionally convened meeting, including our Prime Minister, for which we are very grateful. First, there will be an introduction by the Prime Minister and the various excellences. It was then agreed that each group should have 10 minutes to speak. As usual, you decide who takes the floor and how you divide that time. Then there is the possibility of reply, which we would also like to limit to five minutes per group. Are there any questions or comments on this? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u2	Then I give the floor to Prime Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u3	Thank you for this opportunity to discuss with Parliament on behalf of the government and together with three colleagues. In my introduction, I will outline why the government has moved on to the evacuation and repatriation from Afghanistan, how that went and what the balance of the operation is. I will then give the floor to my colleagues, who will be more detailed about certain aspects of the operation. Following the unilateral decision of the United States, on 8 July 2021, to withdraw all US troops from Afghanistan by 31 August 2021 and following the intake of Kabul by the Taliban on Sunday 15 August, the government decided on Monday 16 August, so day after that, around 1 pm to evacuate Belgians who stayed in Afghanistan and persons who are connected to our country. To this end, staff and resources would be deployed in the Pakistani capital Islamabad and at Kabul Airport. The final evacuation from Kabul would be via daily rotation flights between Kabul and Islamabad. The repatriation of the evacuated would take place from Islamabad to Melsbroek military airport. These persons would then be transferred to the military barracks of Peutie, where they would be screened. The decision to evacuate and repatriate was taken after an electronic consultation of the members of the nuclear cabinet, i.e. via a video call, supplemented by the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Several elements were taken into account in this decision. Since 2014, Belgium no longer has an embassy in Kabul, unlike several neighbouring countries. In the days and weeks before the Taliban took Kabul, the FPS Foreign Affairs had contacted the Belgians present in Afghanistan – and the fact that there were many Belgians in Afghanistan who had not declared their presence there was a problem – to urge them to leave the country. I note that compatriots continued to travel to Afghanistan while Foreign Affairs strongly advised against these trips. Already in mid-July, one month before the fall of Kabul, compatriots registered at our embassy in Islamabad had been contacted with the urgent notice to leave Afghanistan. However, these compatriots and all the other people who subsequently introduced themselves requested that they be evacuated as soon as possible. The government had no obligation to comply. According to the Consular Code, it is very clear that anyone travelling to a given country against foreign affairs travel councils has no legal right to consular assistance from our country. I do not want to be controversial about this, but I would like to stress the individual responsibility of the evacuees. Of course, the government has decided to help all stranded compatriots. If it is not a legal obligation, it is a moral and humanitarian duty for a government to help its compatriots. The government has decided to release all the necessary means to this end: several military aircraft, hundreds of military personnel and dozens of diplomats and consular agents in Islamabad and Kabul, dozens of military personnel and officials at Melsbroek airport and the military barracks in Puitie. Ministers will give you more precise figures and details. The costs of this operation will be borne by an interdepartmental provision. It is too early to detail the budget for this operation. Immediately after the decision of 16 August to evacuate and repatriate, the necessary resources, both personnel and equipment, were mobilized and flown to Islamabad and then Kabul. The actual evacuation started on Friday 20 August, supported by a decision of the Council of Ministers by electronic procedure. Last night, August 25th, this procedure was closed. A total of 1,426 people were evacuated from Kabul Airport through 23 flights between Kabul and Islamabad. From Islamabad, 1,198 people were repatriated towards Melsbroek with a total of 6 flights. The following hours flights will be conducted between Islamabad and Melsbroek. Among these 1,198 people were not only Belgians and people with a connection with Belgium. Our country has shown its full solidarity with other EU Member States and has flown citizens from the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark and other countries to Belgium. In Peutie 844 people were screened who wanted to come to Belgium. In addition, 101 people came to Belgium via the neighbouring countries. A total of 945 people were evacuated from Afghanistan towards Belgium. I would like to stress that these are provisional figures. These figures can still fluctuate, for example on the basis of the latest flights from Islamabad. Did everything go smoothly? No, of course not. I believe that everyone will understand that this kind of evacuation is being done to ensure that things go as well as possible. Like other countries, we have at some point had flights with C-130s that were not fully filled, especially in the beginning. Like all other countries, we did not get all the compatriots and right holders at the airport and in our aircraft. Like all other countries, we are struggling with the exact figures of the number of evacuated Belgians, right holders and Afghans with a connection with our country. That's normal, given the enormous chaos in and around Kabul airport, and the speed with which the rotations had to take place. On average, the time available between landing the plane in Kabul and leaving again was about 30 minutes. That's a particularly short rotation. I can assure you that all persons repatriated have undergone a triple screening: partly in Kabul, partly in Islamabad and partly in Peutie. Firstly, the screening of their identity on the basis of passports, identity cards, travel documents and residence cards. Secondly, a security screening carried out by the OCAD, State Security, Military Intelligence and Federal Police. A quadruple safety check has therefore been carried out on each person. Finally, a PCR test was also performed on arrival. After all, we must not forget that we are still in a covid situation. The National Crisis Centre has played a crucial role in coordinating all of this. Over the past ten days, we have been flooded with thousands of Belgian and Afghan demands, all more desperate than each other. This is why, from the outset, the government has defined four priority groups of people that can be evacuated as a kind of concentric circle. The first category consisted of persons with Belgian nationality and beneficiaries, including members of their nuclear families, i.e. partners and children. The second included Afghans who had worked for Belgium and international organizations, including members of their nuclear families. This mainly involved interpreters and fixers who had worked for the Defence. The third category included Afghans who were at risk, for example, for having worked for an NGO or for having committed to human rights, women's rights and the LGBTI community. The Belgian government is indeed willing to welcome a number of these activists, but in proportion with other countries, with our size. In category four were Afghans with a residence permit in Belgium. According to our analyses, these people faced a lesser immediate danger. If they could not be evacuated now, they could probably leave later if they wished. This last point is important: "if they wish". This is a voluntary and non-mandatory evacuation. We have maintained daily contact with all these people. Some of them, including Belgians, have told us that they prefer to stay in Afghanistan and leave it in another way. In practice, the evacuation focused on the first three categories I have just mentioned. I myself was in constant consultation during this operation with the relevant Foreign Affairs, Defence and Asylum and Migration Ministers. My cabinet organised one or more coordination meetings every day between the relevant cabinets. The nuclear cabinet was continuously informed and met a total of six times to discuss the situation and to make decisions. I was also in constant contact with colleagues from neighbouring countries, as was the case with ministers Wilmès, Dedonder and Mahdi, who were also in constant contact with their international colleagues. I also spoke with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and the President of the European Council, Charles Michel. On Monday, August 23rd, the nuclear cabinet decided to conduct a secret operation in the early morning of Tuesday, August 24th to bring people on buses to the airport. After all, it became increasingly difficult for the people we had contacted, to get to the gates of the airport on their own strength and to be able to enter the airport. The situation around the airport became more and more chaotic and also more dangerous. More and more people were flowing and the situation became more and more desperate. The Taliban, which de facto controlled access to the area around the airport, also became increasingly grimmer. The American and British troops who controlled the entrance gates became more and more severe as the rumors of an imminent attack by IS increased. They took those rumors seriously. We too, because we had dozens of people at the airport, and also many Belgians or people with a link to our country who went near the airport, in an environment that could be dangerous. A moment was considered to carry out a military extraction, in which soldiers would go outside the perimeter of the airport to pick up people. In consultation with the Defense Department, that idea was quickly abandoned. Such operations are extremely dangerous and the chances of success were low. I also note that there are very few countries that have allowed such military extractions to take place outside the airport. Instead, the operation came with the buses. Five buses would pick people up at two collection points and then take them to the airport. These buses wouldn't be escorted. On the night of Monday, August 23rd, the eligible persons were contacted individually. I'm not going into the details of this operation, but she's clearly proven to be a success. 288 people received access to the airport on Tuesday 24 August. About a dozen countries have carried out such operations. It is true that the next morning on Wednesday 25 August a new, international attempt by bus with not only Belgians was unsuccessful. This shows how complex such operations are, how dangerous such operations are. That is why the government has not communicated on these operations until all these operations have taken place, those of our country, but also those of other countries. The last thing we want is for this method to be compromised for people from our country, but also for people from other countries. On Wednesday, 25 August, Kern decided to terminate the evacuations following the explicit suggestion of the Defence Staff that the safety of the military, diplomats and consular personnel on site should take precedence. The situation around the airport was becoming increasingly dangerous. Information about the imminent bomb attack by suicide bombers has become increasingly insistent and has reached us through, among other things, our American news channels. More and more countries have decided to put an end to the operation. A total of 1,426 people were evacuated from Kabul airport between 20 and 25 August. Last night, at 10:30 p.m. – Afghan time – (7:30 p.m. Belgian time), the last soldiers left Kabul airport. They stay in stand-by in Islamabad. The evacuation is over, but not repatriations: there will still be flights between Islamabad and Ruisbroek. It is still too early to take a full look at the situation, but it is not too early to draw some conclusions from what we have been through in recent weeks. We did not assess the rate of progress of the Taliban. However, this is not a Belgian failure: it is a collective failure. The American, British, French and other intelligence services saw nothing coming and so did we. We must continue to invest in intelligence and security services, both nationally and internationally. Justice Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne has already announced an investment plan for State Security. Defence Minister Ludivine Dedonder also announced that she wants to reform the military intelligence service and give it more weight. We will also need to invest more in cooperation between the intelligence services, within the European Union and within NATO. Then, at the recent NATO summit in which President Biden also participated, in June, only two months ago, the message was: America is back. Many called for more political consultation, but I also note and regret that this consultation hardly took place in this dossier. There is also a need for a thorough reflection within NATO, because this way we cannot go any further. The United States remains our greatest ally and there is no place for naivety in the transatlantic relationship. The United States has taken the decision to withdraw unilaterally, despite the fact that it was stated:in together, out together. Apparently, at the moment, America first again, just like the America first was when President Biden called in the defence act regarding the covid vaccines. Europe urgently needs to learn lessons from this. It is high time we continued to work on the strategic autonomy that we have been talking about for some time now, because in the geopolitical game Europe must also be able to defend its own interests strongly. The United States is certainly an ally, but it is an ally that first and foremost weighs its own national interests. Europe must also do so: in decisions of this kind, we must also be more and more able to put our own European interests forward as an absolute priority. Finally, when we set up the European Union's diplomatic service, the European External Action Service (EEAS), we made a mistake in my view. It was agreed at that time that consular assistance would remain an absolute national competence. That agreement from the past has, in my view, affected us in the evacuations. In the field there was good cooperation between Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, France and Luxembourg, but it could have been easier if there had been much stronger European cooperation and better coordination from the outset. As so often happens, moments of crisis make Europe better equipped. We must take care of this in the context of the crisis we are discussing, and I will refer this to President-in-Office Charles Michel and to my European colleagues. I would like to conclude with a word of thanks and a word of tribute to all the people who have contributed to this, either in Kabul, Islamabad, Melsbroek, Peutie and in so many places in our country. Your unbridled commitment, your courage, your creativity and your commitment to helping everyone who is entitled to it has made this operation a success. The government, with everyone who was helped, their family and their neighbors, is explicitly grateful to you for the very hard and very difficult work that has been done over the past few days. With your permission, I will pass on the floor to Mrs Wilmès, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then to Minister Dedonder and Secretary of State Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u4	I take this opportunity to answer the many questions I have already received. That will enable you to continue the discussion. We are here to take stock of the situation in Afghanistan. For more than 10 days we have been working with the entire team 24 hours a day to put our subjects, their families and people in danger. I would like to thank all the services that have worked hard, and still do, to bring as many people to safety as possible. As you know, the situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated rapidly and has surprised the entire international community and the observers. What happens there is a tragedy. The images of human suffering at the gates of Kabul airport leave no one untouched. I think it is important to take stock of the situation on the ground. Some of you have already asked me questions for this sitting and I will answer them. Then I will talk about the implementation of Operation Red Kite and inform you of the diplomatic contacts that have been made in this connection. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the consular team and the Foreign Affairs Crisis Centre. They have worked tirelessly under particularly difficult conditions. A special thought goes to those who have accepted to go to Kabul and worked 24 hours on 24 under very difficult conditions. I would also like to thank the teams of Defence, Asylum and Migration and Home Affairs for their hard work and their professionalism, which allowed us to create an unprecedented operation. I would also like to thank my colleagues and their cabinet, all of whom are indispensable links in a mission that is exceptional in terms of scope and human and security dimensions. As we have seen, the withdrawal of US troops last April and the end of NATO's Resolute Support mission have paved the way for a much faster-than-expected Taliban winback strategy. On 15 August, Taliban leaders entered Kabul and now control almost the entire country. Several factors can explain the rapid deterioration of the situation: for example, the Afghan army's willingness not to oppose the Taliban in order to avoid a bloodbath or a lack of confidence in the power in place. Finally, the impact of the power-sharing agreements previously concluded by the Taliban should not be underestimated. On 15 August, President Ghani fled the country. The Afghan Minister of the Interior has sent a reassuring message in reference to a peaceful transition of power, but this prospect was quickly denied by the situation on the ground, where confrontations have been observed. The resistance is organized in the Panshir Valley under the aegis of Ahmad Massoud, son of former commander Massoud, and former vice-president Saleh. Other armed groups are also organizing themselves to attack the Taliban, particularly in the north of the country, but it is too early to say that this is the emergence of a new military front. The Taliban announced that they wanted to establish a theocratic regime based on a strict interpretation of the sharia. They indicated their willingness to preserve acquired rights, particularly for the benefit of women and girls, only if they were compatible with the sharia. They have already made it clear that democracy is not a model of governance for Afghanistan, and that is a matter of great concern to us as regards respect for democratic values and certainly respect for human rights, especially women's rights. The Taliban should present their model of government in the following weeks. It would appear that contacts are under way between the various political actors on the ground to form a transitional government, but it is difficult to find out more at this stage. The situation is still extremely volatile. Following the agreement signed in February 2020 between the US and the Taliban, a roadmap for intra-Afghan negotiations had been endorsed. The aim was to find a solution to the crisis through negotiations, hoping to bring stability and cessation of violence to the country. Unfortunately, the negotiation process to bring peace back to Afghanistan – otherwise known as the Doha process – launched in September 2020 quickly stalled. The most recent discussions had not led to any concrete progress towards power-sharing as envisaged in these negotiations. Belgium does not want an arms-imposed Taliban regime whose political plan is to establish an Islamic emirate in Afghanistan. This vision is also widely shared within the international community. I would point out that, from a legal point of view, any recognition applies to States and not to Governments. Nevertheless, the question of the legitimacy of the future transitional government under the Taliban leadership will arise and will be the subject of consultation with our European and international partners. The Taliban will have to be judged on their actions over time, not on their words. At this stage, to prevent a human disaster, operational channels of communication with the Taliban must be maintained – but this does not imply political recognition. Informal contacts with the Taliban led by special envoys from some major regional and international actors, including the European Union Special Envoy for Afghanistan, were under way, including in the Doha negotiating process. As stated at the Foreign Affairs Council on Tuesday, 17 August, our relations and our level of engagement with the Taliban should be determined on the basis of their respect for international humanitarian law, human rights, in particular women's and children's rights, their active contribution to an inclusive political process and, lastly, their adherence to all the international commitments that Afghanistan has concluded in recent years, including the conditions for receiving development assistance. These conditions were recalled at the Geneva International Donor Conference in November 2020. An inclusive and negotiated political solution must be implemented. The goal is and remains stability, security for all Afghans and respect for human rights, especially for women and girls. I'll never repeat it enough. We'll see what happens. At this stage, there is no indication that this is the case. To safeguard our values and principles, the international community must be united in order to send a strong message to the representatives of the Afghan power. As you know, human rights, and in particular the rights of women and girls, are a priority of Belgian foreign policy, including with regard to Afghanistan. This is demonstrated by Belgium's support to UN Women. We discussed it at the previous meeting of the Committee on External Relations. I took part in a meeting with Afghan women, organised last June by UN Women and our embassy. Their words won't let go of me. I therefore share your concern about the impact of the takeover of the Taliban on human rights in Afghanistan, specifically that of women and girls. Although far from perfect, the situation of women and girls in Afghanistan has improved over the past 20 years, including with regard to access to education, work and health care, as well as the participation of women and girls in public life. There is a risk that all this will be destroyed. The information we have received so far from Afghanistan does not seem to be hopeful. Belgium does not hesitate to raise this issue in the various relevant fora. A special session of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Afghanistan was held on 24 August. Our country argued in the negotiations for the strengthening of women's and girls' human rights, supported a joint statement on women's and girls' human rights in Afghanistan and also made a speech on this important issue. I was also asked a question about the resolution adopted by the Human Rights Council on 24 August. Like the EU and like-minded partners, Belgium is disappointed by the text of the resolution adopted at the Special Session of the Human Rights Council on Afghanistan. The creation of a mechanism to investigate mass violations of human rights, which was the initial objective, was rejected by the Member States of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation (OIC). The text of the resolution adopted does not explicitly mention the Taliban and does not refer to the CEDAW, a treaty that is so important for women's rights. It was simply agreed that the High Commissioner for Human Rights will report orally at the September 2021 meeting on the situation in Afghanistan and will submit a written report at the March 2022 session. This result lags behind the positions adopted at this extraordinary session, in particular by Belgium. Despite this disappointment, no state asked for a vote so that the resolution could be adopted very quickly by consensus. The EU expressed its regret with a strong explanation of its position. An investigative mechanism could have been set up. It would probably have been denied access to the territory and would not have received support from the OIC, some of which might exert some pressure on the Taliban. The broader strategic reflection on this issue will continue at EU level. Within the EU and NATO, Belgium is also traditionally an advocate of gender equality and gender mainstreaming. In recent days, with Belgian support, both organisations have clearly expressed their views on the importance of women's and girls' human rights in Afghanistan. Finally, I can assure you that our country, myself and the Foreign Office, will continue to follow closely the situation of women and girls in Afghanistan. Any future leadership in Afghanistan is committed to protecting the human rights of all men, women, boys and girls in Afghanistan and must realise that a stable and prosperous country is not possible when half the population is excluded. Afghanistan is a party to the CEDAW Convention and our country will not fail to remind the Afghan authorities of their obligations under that Convention, again without any lack of realism. In the context of our future commitments, I already advocate that, in consultation with our like-minded partners, especially at EU and UN level, a specific strategy for the defence of the rights of Afghan women be examined in all their diversity. The humanitarian and food situation in Afghanistan, which was already catastrophic, has deteriorated considerably after the Taliban offensive, leaving thousands of people displaced in Afghanistan and others exiled. Half the population depends on international aid. For several months now, NGOs have been experiencing increasing difficulties in accessing humanitarian aid. It will be particularly important to maintain the presence of humanitarian organisations on the ground and to support them financially. Many UN organisations and some international NGOs, such as the Red Cross, are still active in Afghanistan. In some cases, they have transferred part of their staff to a neighbouring country to facilitate their activities. There are a number of levers that should enable the international community to exert relative pressure on the Taliban to respect the rule of law and human rights and combat crime, including corruption, and to attach certain conditions to the continuation of development, reconstruction and humanitarian assistance. Part of the puzzle will be to maintain dialogue with regional actors and countries that are able to exert a positive influence in Afghanistan, if I may call it so. This will be done in an effort to achieve a political solution to the conflict, respect for human rights, stability in the region and enhanced cooperation in the management of migratory flows and the fight against terrorism. The European approach will be fundamental in this respect. I now turn to the situation of the Belgian community on the spot. Pardon those who have less interest in specific foreign affairs issues, but this is a joint committee and this is dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs every week, as Mrs Van Hoof is well aware. The travel notice for Afghanistan had indicated for more than five years that all travel to Afghanistan was absolutely not recommended. In view of the deteriorating security situation in recent weeks, Belgium issued a formal notice to leave the country on 7 August 2021. On three occasions in one month, and for the third time on 14 August, our embassy in Islamabad individually contacted each Belgian registered with our services and those who had reported their presence in Afghanistan on Travellers Online, in order to verify their situation and remind them of this formal notice to leave the territory. At the time, only 31 Belgians were registered with the Embassy in Islamabad as residents of Afghanistan. About 15 passengers had also reported being present. Until Saturday, 14 August, no Belgian in Afghanistan had issued a request to the Embassy or the SPF Foreign Affairs for assistance in order to leave the country. As we know, since then, the figures have evolved from hour to hour and from day to day and to date, more than 500 Belgians and eligible persons have come forward and have requested assistance to leave the territory. There are also several persons holding a valid Belgian residence permit. Some, as we must know, have reported for the first time only a few days ago. The extremely rapid deterioration of the situation on the ground – the capture of Kabul, fears about the Taliban, the cessation of all commercial flights – made it obvious and necessary to organize a repatriation operation as early as Sunday, 15 August. Contact was therefore immediately taken with the Defence to consider what was possible. We have also contacted our European partners in order to coordinate as much as possible, and I will come back to that in a few moments. On Monday, 16 August, on our joint proposal with the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, it was decided to launch a non-combatant evacuation operation (NEO) in Kabul. The operation is being conducted from our embassy in Islamabad because there is no Belgian embassy in Afghanistan. As a reminder, Belgium has no longer conducted this type of operation since the dramatic events in Rwanda in 1994. In this case, the current transaction does not concern only Belgians and those entitled. It concerns other categories of people, as the Prime Minister pointed out at the moment. The structure of this operation is based on the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs concerning missions to prepare for a crisis, protect or evacuate Belgian nationals and persons entitled abroad, signed on 5 November 2013. This protocol provides that the FPS Foreign Affairs is responsible on behalf of the federal government for consular support to be provided to Belgian nationals and persons entitled abroad. He pointed out that one of the measures that the FPS Foreign Affairs could propose to the federal government was the organization of the evacuation and repatriation of Belgian nationals who were entitled when their situation was threatened as a result of security or health problems. The protocol states that the decision to initiate an evacuation operation is made by the federal government. Schematically, the primary evacuation – between Kabul and Islamabad – and the management of the evacuations are carried out by the Defence during this phase of the operation. The FPS Foreign Affairs, with the support of the Defence, is responsible for the secondary evacuation. This is what is provided for in the protocol. You have noticed that the reality on the ground is that all services depend on each other for the whole operation, from beginning to end. Our field teams in Kabul and Islamabad have actually worked hand in hand, with a great deal of professionalism during this difficult operation. I would also like to thank the Minister of Mobility for the initial contact with the charter company that carried out the repatriation flights. In this capacity, I would like to thank Air Belgium for its services and flexibility in this mission and test. As part of this operation, the government also decided to pay particular attention to screening. I think the Prime Minister has made sufficient progress on this issue. I would also like to touch on a few specific points on which questions have been raised. Firstly, on the role of our consular services. They were responsible for collecting requests for assistance, checking the situation of the persons concerned, including their nationality and family ties. A FACT team, which stands for Foreign Affairs Crisis Team, was present at Kabul Airport. Our teams also led the repatriation from Islamabad. We have worked on a list of less than 1,000 people to be repatriated in just a few days because we had no information about them before. Some Belgians who were not in contact with our embassy in Islamabad also showed up spontaneously at Kabul airport. Due to the changed circumstances on the ground, this operation is now over. Most European countries have also had to stop their activity and the United States are organising their withdrawal from the airport. The situation is still developing. We were faced with several operational challenges. By "we" I mean the Department of Foreign Affairs and Defence, and their presence on the ground. I would like to mention two of them: access to Kabul airport and the many factors which are beyond our control and which are linked to the extremely unstable situation on the ground. Safety was and is therefore a constant source of concern. Access to and security of Kabul airport and air traffic control make the situation even more complicated. This mission is carried out by the Americans and some allies. We are very grateful to them. We are therefore dependent on them to keep access to the airport open and to provide slots for flights. You must have seen pictures and videos of thousands of people who went to the airport. You can therefore imagine the extreme volatility of the situation. Several political contacts have taken place, in particular to clarify the access rules. I will come back to this in a moment. The American presence at the airport is expected to end on 31 August. At the extraordinary meeting of Foreign Ministers on 20 August, I pleaded for an extension of this deadline so that the evacuation could continue in a safe and effective manner. Several partners shared this view, which was reiterated at the G7 summit on Tuesday, 24 August. The Taliban, however, continue to be very firm on the date when the Americans must have left Afghan soil. Like all countries, we have worked on that date and have done everything we can to get as many of our fellow citizens and others out, of course, as quickly as possible. This work is not over. We must also remain lucid. We have faced many external factors beyond our control. The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borell, said: "It will not be possible to evacuate all Afghans who want to leave the country." It has been extremely difficult to evacuate all the people we have identified. Some persons who received an invitation to travel to the airport, for example, were unable to reach him. As I speak to you, we have been able to evacuate more than 1,400 people, including persons under Belgian responsibility and Dutch, Luxembourg and other States. Defence Minister Dedonder will certainly take stock of this operation. Operation Red Kite must have been closed. As a result, people under our responsibility have not managed to leave Afghanistan and their exact numbers need to be refined. Some did not manage to reach the airport. Others did not want to return: for family reasons, of course, temporary, which meant that they did not want to return for the moment or that they did not feel the strength to do so. Others did not or failed to demonstrate to the Embassy, in particular because they were not in Kabul and could not afford to visit the country. Finally, some of them were repatriated when they did not first report to our services or returned to Belgium by other means without informing us, each of them being holders of Belgian documents, otherwise they would not have been able to access the airport. To this end, persons still in the territory were asked to contact our embassy in Islamabad as soon as possible and to provide them with their precise contact details and location. This is a message that we sent broadly this night. We have sent out several of them: one on the security situation and another where we ask those who have not left the territory to do so today. Finally, on Tuesday, one of our compatriots was shot and wounded while standing near the northern evacuation gate. An investigation is under way to determine the circumstances of the accident. There were also questions about the Embassy in Kabul and about the airport. They asked about the consequences of the closure of our Embassy in Kabul in 2015 for the management of the evacuations. As soon as the operation was set up, a consular team of Foreign Affairs, accompanied by a defence detachment, went on the scene and was able to operate from there. The Western embassies who were still present in Afghanistan on 15 August also withdrew from Kabul airport to ensure their operation, while the security situation in the city itself significantly deteriorated. Mutual assistance from other European nations and EU services facilitated the evacuation of our nationals, although each Member State remains the first point of contact for its citizens, as the Prime Minister has said. Finally, a question was asked about access to the airport. The lists of persons eligible for repatriation shall be drawn up by the Foreign Office for Belgians and their family members, as well as for persons who have worked at the consulate. The Ministry of Defence has drawn up a list of people who have worked for it, while the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration has selected people who are at risk, in particular because of their commitment to human rights and, more generally, to the development of a democratic society. In order to enter the airport, the persons concerned must be on the list and be in possession of a document demonstrating their identity. That control is carried out by our partners who secure the airport and we provide support to accelerate the movement. Let us not forget that, before arriving at this checkpoint, the contact persons must first pass Taliban control outside the perimeter before they reach the airport gate. Since the access points are limited and access may be difficult, thousands of people gather before the gates, making it very difficult to enter the airport. The gates were temporarily closed several times to ensure safety. You are aware of the meeting of the Human Rights Council, which I have already spoken about. You are also aware of the European Council of Foreign Affairs at EU level on 16 August, where I stressed the need to strengthen coordination and solidarity between EU partners, including coordination of evacuation flights for our nationals and other beneficiaries. I have also emphasised the priority to be given to humanitarian assistance, support for Afghans who defend values and human rights promoted by the EU. I also encouraged the EU to strengthen dialogue with key regional and international actors in order to influence or at least try to influence the political process in Afghanistan. The subject will again be on the agenda of the Gymnich, the informal Council to be held on 2 and 3 September. I also had a NATO meeting, as you know. The first concern discussed there was the evacuation of the people. I have also already informed you about yesterday's G7 meeting or the day before yesterday's time goes very quickly when one is constantly dealing with such a difficult situation. Bilateral contacts have also taken place, such as at the level of the Prime Minister, at the level of Defence and at the level of Foreign Affairs. The allies also spoke with Pakistan's partners, notably Minister Qureshi. I have also had very frequent contacts with my Dutch counterpart who was operating from Pakistan and who, as you will see at the hearing of Mrs.Dedonder, was able to benefit greatly from the C130 flights that were organised between Kabul and Islamabad. We were also able to enjoy seats in some of their planes. I have also been in contact with Jean Asselborn, my Luxembourg colleague, concerning their nationals and with France. Yesterday, I was in contact with my UK colleague, Dominic Raab. We talked about the days ahead and how to look together at the future in the best possible way. I stress the word "possible". We have been in constant contact with the United States, of course, both on the ground in Kabul and via Islamabad, Brussels, Washington, since you know how important the United States is in securing and organizing the airport. Bilateral, international contacts have been extremely numerous, in parallel with the organization, with the competent departments, of the evacuation of each other. I would just like to conclude this long introductory speech by stating that yesterday we had the opportunity to visit the reception centre in Puisie and I was very impressed with the professionalism and quality of their reception. It is a centre that was built and developed in very short time with a lot of people who are not only very professional but also very attentive. Of course, it's a rare opportunity to meet people who arrive after an extremely trying trip. I want to talk about difficult moments, everything that has taken them to the airport, these moments of stress, these moments of doubt that we can reach this place of safety, because the doubt remains until the moment of safe arrival in Belgium. So many moments of emotion shared by each of us and that are very little in relation to what they and they can experience and experience today when they arrive. And I think that it is on behalf of all those they regret that we have had to leave behind that we must continue to work for Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate on Belgium's engagement in Afghanistan and the Taliban's takeover of Kabul, on Operation Red Kite and the security situation on the spot and finally on welcoming former Defence collaborators. With regard to the Taliban takeover of Kabul and the security situation on the ground, Belgium committed itself to Afghanistan in 2003 by participating in the international assistance and security force to protect Kabul airport and be deployed to various parts of the country with a maximum of 750 troops. Belgium continued its engagement with the Resolute Support non-combatant mission launched in January 2015 to support Afghan forces in an effort to empower and support the democratic transition. Belgium participated in a significantly more modest proportion of about 70 military personnel. Last April, when the Americans signalled to NATO allies their willingness to withdraw from Afghanistan, Belgium was one of the only countries to draw attention to the time required to determine a true exit strategy. Following the American decision, however, we were able to carry out our redeployment in good conditions, in good coordination with our German partner on the spot. In other words, Defence operational equipment, including weapons and ammunition, was evacuated from Afghanistan before the Taliban took power. This takeover, although still recent and difficult to control in Afghanistan, has been very rapid. I turn to the rapid deterioration of the situation in Afghanistan and the current situation in Kabul. The Taliban attacks have multiplied and intensified dramatically since the beginning of August. The rise in power took place both through symbolic attacks in the capital as well as by the capture of cities and provincial capitals. On August 6, the first provincial capital fell into the hands of the Taliban. The catch of this type is multiplying. From one to three provincial capitals fall every day, until August 15. In the second week of August, U.S. intelligence still predicted the fall of Kabul within a period of one to three months. The US announced the dispatch of additional troops to assist in the redeployment of its troops; unfortunately, this assessment was still too optimistic. On 15 August, after the city of Mazar-i-Sharif, an important city in northern Afghanistan, fell after several days of resistance, it is an important eastern city, Jalalabad, which is taken without significant resistance from the Afghan army this time. From that day on, Kabul was surrounded by the Taliban, triggering President Ghani's flight abroad and the subsequent entry of the Taliban into the city and the presidential palace, without any real fighting. From then on, the staff of the partner embassies moved to the perimeter of the international airport, which was secured, as far as possible, by American troops. The situation has stabilized somewhat since 18 August. The situation has deteriorated sharply today, and I will return to it. In the light of the events I have just mentioned, it appears that the international community has misestimated and underestimated the dynamics on the ground and the balance of power between the Taliban and the authorities in place. No analyst had planned the Taliban's flash conquest of Kabul without resistance from the Afghan armed forces. The lessons of this episode will have to be learned and they will be learned in time and time. The message to be delivered on 1 and 2 September at the Defence Ministerial Conference will be fully in line with what the Prime Minister has just said about the need to strengthen the European Union's military capacity and its autonomy to deal with security crises for our citizens, such as the one we are experiencing today. With regard to Operation Red Kite, the speed of the recapture was surprising for everyone, not least for the Belgian compatriots who were still in Afghanistan and who were in a very precarious situation on the ground. There was an acute security risk on Belgian nationals and their dependants, as well as on people with a residence permit for Belgium. In particular, persons who have worked directly for Belgium or for international organizations may be mentioned. These include former Defence collaborators to whom I will return later, those who took personal risks in defending human rights, especially women's rights, and those who have residence permits for Belgium. In response to this situation, the Defence took the necessary steps to be able to carry out a possible evacuation mission as soon as possible. On Monday, August 16, a few hours after the reconquest of Kabul and the first evacuation by the US Air Force, the government decided to launch a so-called non-combatant evacuation operation to evacuate Belgian nationals and right holders as soon as possible. For this there is a protocol agreement between Foreign Affairs and Defence. The plans are regularly kept up-to-date. The next few hours, all military resources were prepared for deployment to the zone. As you know, on Tuesday 17 August, less than 24 hours after the government's decision, the first plane left for the region, with the reconnaissance and consular team. They established contacts as soon as possible for the preparation of the evacuation operation. The transport aircraft, the security detachment and the necessary equipment were flown over from Brussels on Wednesday 18 August and arrived in Islamabad in the course of Thursday. On the same day, part of the consular team was taken to Kabul, via a flight from a partner country. On August 20, the shuttle flights between Islamabad and Kabul started per C-130. This is known as the primary evacuation. Defence operates the flights and conducts protection and boarding operations at Kabul and Islamabad airports. The FPS State Department was on the scene to determine who could be evacuated. Coordination with other countries that also carry out evacuations was carried out on the spot by a liaison cell. At my request, the Belgian Chief of Defence had a telephone interview with Pakistan's Chief of Defence, Qamar Javed Bajwa, to ensure good cooperation between our two nations on the military aspects of the mission. The circumstances in which the evacuations took place were very difficult due to the complex, chaotic and volatile situation in Kabul and the increasing unrest among the population. Nevertheless, the Belgian team managed to follow the planning as closely as possible. The securing of the airport was the ultimate responsibility of the US forces, but Belgium and the other present forces also contributed. Of course, the numbers actually realised depended mainly on the right holders who offered to evacuate at the airport. The problems of reaching the airport are probably all known to you. Primary evacuation operations have been closed since yesterday at 9:30 p.m. The military and consular teams that were on site have now left Kabul, after no fewer than 23 rotations. Today, the situation around the airport is described as chaotic. To sum it up, concrete threats of attacks on access to the airport are reported and become dominant, the Taliban are having difficulty controlling movements around the airport through numerous check-points and the Taliban's attitude towards the population is getting tougher. Access to the airport is increasingly difficult for civilians and the level of violence is increasing rapidly, with more and more reported shots being fired. Several thousand Taliban are present in the city and it is excluded to extend the American presence beyond 31 August. Our partners are gradually leaving the area, further reducing the level of security on site. The Defence has evacuated as many Belgians and rightholders as possible, but the evolution of the security situation has left us no choice. The Government has thus taken the decision to recall our secondment from Kabul and to end the primary evacuations. As far as secondary evacuation is concerned, the first evacuated from Islamabad left for Melsbroek military airport on 22 August. This evacuation is being carried out by the FPS State Department, with the support of the Defense Department. An aircraft of the commercial airline Air Belgium and a MRTT aircraft, a military tanker aircraft that can also be converted into a passenger aircraft, were used for this evacuation. Secondary evacuations are over. One last Air Belgium flight landed this morning at 0855 in Melsbroek. Other flights are still possible. Once in the national territory, the evacuees are directed to the barracks of Puisie. Defence was committed to providing additional support by organizing hospitality logistics. Upon their arrival in Melsbroek, the evacuees, including those dependent on other nations, are transported by the Defense to Puisie with a police escort. Arriving in Puisie, these people are welcomed by an interdepartmental team and pass through the various medical and security checkpoints. Each department is responsible for the tasks. People receive, among other things, a PCR test and psychosocial assistance is provided by the Public Health FPS. Depending on their status, they return to their home, family or friends, or they are welcomed by Fedasil, or even by the Defense for ex-collaborators. Evacuees dependent on other nations are welcomed to Puie by their embassy and then transported to their destination by the responsible nation. Defence is responsible for the organization of sites, including medical support, stewardship and communications. It is responsible for coordination between the departments, transport between Melsbroek and Puisie, as well as the Horeca for the evacuees and those of the various departments working in Puisie. This is an exceptional work, carried out jointly by the Defence and other departments involved in full collaboration with our partners. I would like to thank the women and men who have contributed to this remarkable operation for a country like ours. In total, some 350 soldiers were deployed in the operation theatre for the Red Kite operation. About 50 soldiers were deployed in Peutie for the coordination of the shelter. Melsbroek's military airport served as departure and arrival points for all scheduled flights daily. In terms of air capacity, we used three Belgian C-130s, two MRTT flights from the European Air Traffic Command and two A400M's, including the Luxembourg A400M. As has already been said, the C-130s evacuated 1,426 people from Kabul on behalf of Belgium or other States. Our Dutch partners evacuated 91 people for us. From Islamabad we evacuated 1,198 people, both on our behalf and for our partners. International cooperation with our partners has worked very well. In particular, we were able to count on our privileged partners, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Denmark, to take off quickly the Luxembourg A400M or to establish the advanced post in Islamabad. Thanks to this excellent cooperation, beneficiaries under the responsibility of other countries, such as the Netherlands, Austria and Luxembourg, have been repatriated to Belgium. Conversely, Belgians and claimants under our responsibility were repatriated to European destinations before being redirected to our territory. This umpteenth crisis, in which Defence once again intervenes with the means at its disposal, whether in Belgium or in distant theatres of operation, demonstrates once again the need to invest in this regalian tool which is increasingly sought after, in particular in the context of the evolution of a security context characterized by the erasure of the border between international security and internal security. Questions were asked about ex-collaborators. One of the categories of evacuees is that of former Defence collaborators. Local employees have been deployed mainly in the early years of the presence of Defence in Afghanistan. It was not just about interpreters or fixers, but also about employees who had tasks such as cleaning or cooking. Anyone who, on the basis of his involvement in the Belgian army, is at risk of having problems with the Taliban will be eligible, regardless of the task performed by that person. The same local employees were not only engaged by Belgians, but also in the context of the international coalition. So they often worked for different nations, sometimes for a limited time. Together with the very rapidly changing power relations in the field of recent times, this does not make it easy to reach out to them. Nevertheless, Belgium, and in particular the Defence Department, did not want to abandon these people. There was eventually contact with more than twenty people, either on their own initiative or after contact by the Defense Department. Not everyone responded, but those who responded went into the offer and we tried to help. As I speak, the Defence proceeded to evacuate 15 families of people who collaborated with the Belgian Defence during our engagement in Afghanistan for a total of 79 people. These are the most recent figures I have at my disposal. They could still be adjusted. At the request of the Government, these persons are provided with assistance and support from the Defence. The OCACC, the Central Office for Social and Cultural Action of Defence, has been tasked with providing emergency assistance to these families, providing them with housing and ensuring that their basic needs are met. OCASC carries out this unusual task with dedication, in collaboration with local military and civilian authorities. We are currently considering with Fedasil the additional support they can provide. For example, families were accommodated in a OCASC centre in Spa. According to the information I received from the OCASC, contacts with the local authorities were made, as early as Friday, 20 August, for an actual arrival on the following Monday in the evening. Upon their arrival, the families were taken care of by the OCASC and the Defence. The director of the centre where they were housed accompanied them for essential purchases and the commander of the local barracks arranged the delivery of meals. On the other hand, spontaneous solidarity has been set up, sometimes at the initiative of people, who have recently been affected, and I welcome this. Belgium, the State and its inhabitants stand in solidarity for people fleeing indiscriminate violence, for those affected by the weather. Those involved in their duties or their mere willingness to help can be proud of the counter-example they are setting today for the new masters of Kabul.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here today. I am glad that we have this discussion in committee even if the mission is not yet fully completed, knowing that there are still people in Islamabad. Having an exchange with Parliament is important to be able to answer your questions. First of all, I should like to begin with what I indicated at the press conference this morning. I'd like to preface a piece of the feeling I had after the footage yesterday. There have been a lot of images over the last few days, but two images from yesterday will stay with me for a very long time. A picture in the morning of a man held by the Taliban who had made it a habit of laughing with everything as a comedian, including the Taliban. Until just before he was executed, he kept laughing with the Taliban. In addition, there was the image of a little girl at the airport in Melsbroek, jumping, with a very broad smile, but with a very different fate than the comedian in Afghanistan. In that respect, I cannot emphasise enough how important this mission was to help people who otherwise had fallen into the hands of the Taliban, with an end that would not always be the most beautiful. It was therefore an important mission to bring Belgians and their families here, but also to assist people at high risk in Afghanistan. According to the decision of the core, taken on 16 August, it was decided to evacuate Afghans for humanitarian reasons as well. As Mrs Dedonder has already said, there are certainly the Afghans who have worked with our soldiers for years as an interpreter or as a fixer, who have stuck their necks out and fought with us, side by side, and therefore put their lives at risk. In addition, there were two other categories. Afghans who have worked for international, European or national organisations. Belgium has always said that we must accept our fair share at international and European level. There are also Afghans who are fighting for human rights or women's rights and are therefore at increased risk in that country. These are people who had the hope that Afghanistan could have become the free country where everyone cannot walk on the streets and do so freely. They are therefore always reliable organisations that have contacted us and clearly indicated who their Afghan employees are. Let me give you some examples: the Afghan national human rights institutions, the UN organisations on the ground, such as UN Women, or NGOs active there, including the NGO Mothers for Peace from Ypres. This NGO has been fighting for women's rights for years and, despite the fact that there are many people in Afghanistan who think that a young girl should not learn to read and write, has worked to realize that. With regard to individual files, they are often high profile individuals who are known for their activities and are therefore at great risk. For all categories, preference was, of course, for people who already have links with Belgium. Those persons may be accompanied by their core family, in particular their partner and minor children, as well as any other family members who live with them and are dependent on the family, which puts them at great risk of persecution. For each of these persons a security check was carried out: a check by the OCAD, one by the State Security, one by the military intelligence services and then also by the federal police. Of course, our own migration database was also consulted. Only if all these checks were negative did the people on the list end up being evacuated. The intelligence services are also present at the arrival in Peutie, where everyone was checked again. As long as there are still people on their way from Islamabad to Melsbroek and Peutie, the numbers are still evolving, but for the time being 844 people have arrived in Belgium who will stay in Belgium. You know that not everyone who arrives in Islamabad from Kabul on a Belgian plane also by definition travels to Belgium, and also people who then go to Melsbroek or Peutie do not necessarily have Belgium as their final destination. A great deal of effort has been made to take on our international and European responsibility and also to take on people who may later end up in one of our neighbouring countries. With regard to the evacuees who were welcomed to Puisie, I agree with Mrs Wilmès' remarks: the collaboration between several services is truly remarkable. I would also like to thank all those who work there 24 hours a day, together. They had to go very fast to organize. The Red Cross, the police, the Defence and the Asylum and Migration services are present. They all work together in the best possible way. I would therefore like to thank them once again. Of course, several checks are carried out by the police. Verifications were also carried out by the State Security, by the Defence, the OCAM. In addition, in view of the health situation, a PCR test is also carried out. We are quite strict about the checks that must be carried out, but it is important that they be carried out. In the Netherlands rapid tests are carried out rather than a PCR test. As far as we are concerned, we have chosen to be stricter in this area. Belgians and their family members with a residence card can of course go home, once they are past Peutie. After all, they have a stay in Belgium. The others receive a short stay visa upon arrival, which is valid for 15 days. That is the way we work as there is no time to deliver a humanitarian visa in Kabul, given the circumstances you all know, and because there is no embassy there. Those 15 days allow them to fulfil their quarantine obligations and then initiate the necessary procedures. They shall be informed on-the-spot about the procedures relating to residence. This means family reunification for whom they are eligible. These applications shall be submitted to the municipality of the reference centre and asylum for the other persons in accordance with normal procedures. They will immediately be given an appointment to submit their asylum application in the Klein Kastiltje. Enough interpreters are provided on the ground to assist everyone. We'll also make sure no one gets off the radar. How do we do that? By giving information in Peutie about all the following steps: if you apply for family reunification, you must have a Belgian as a reference person, with all the necessary contact details, and if you apply for asylum, you will immediately receive an appointment to apply for asylum in the Klein Kasteelje. As has just been said, these agreements are scheduled after 8 days, so that these persons can comply with the covid measures after arrival and therefore do not go to the Klein Kastiltje earlier. As far as flights via the European Union are concerned, 101 people have already arrived in other countries that will be arriving in Belgium or have already arrived. The cooperation is in both directions. A number of Belgians or persons on our lists have arrived in other countries because they happened to be able to take part in an evacuation flight from that country. Think of the repatriations through the Netherlands, with which we have a very good cooperation. You know how it is. It is not Brussels Airlines where you have 2 hours to check in. It has to be quick and the Americans will see to it. They have 30 minutes to get on the plane. It is therefore important to have good cooperation with countries that also do evacuations, so that our nationals can also be brought to safety through other countries. In that case, it is in principle the other country that does border control. Passengers with valid entry documents are admitted to the territory and are assisted by the local diplomatic post to come to Belgium. In the other cases, a takeover request is addressed to Belgium and we consider whether this person was indeed on our lists and can be transferred to Belgium. Our immigration services are, of course, in contact with each other. On 21 August, a group of 34 people who had been hired at Schiphol Airport were brought to Peutie, where they had to go through the full procedure. The overall figures have already been given for a piece. As far as arrivals in Belgium and other countries are concerned, it is about 451 Belgians and their families. 243 of them because of their vulnerable profile, for example, people who have worked for Defence or who have worked for human rights organisations or women's rights organisations. In addition, there are 225 persons with a Belgian residence card. What are the consequences of returning to Afghanistan for beneficiaries of international protection? Recognized refugees are considered to be Belgian and are therefore equally entitled to consular assistance. In principle, a recognised refugee is not allowed to return to his country of origin. However, there are circumstances that can justify this. In any case, this is an independent assessment to be carried out by the CGVS. They will therefore be heard in a contradictory procedure and on that basis the CGVS will be independent of any withdrawal of the refugee status. In any case, we will pass that information on to the CGVS so that they can investigate it. As far as reception after arrival is concerned, Belgians and persons with right of residence can, of course, simply go home. We're all assuming that these people have a place here. People who will ask for asylum will be taken care of. As Mrs Dedonder has already pointed out, the Defense Department is responsible for the reception of Afghans who have worked for them. We are in good contact with the Defense Department to see how, together, we can support the people who have worked for the Defense Department and who deserve all support for it in the right way. Some organisations are responsible for the reception of their employees so that they can be accommodated in a local network that can guide them. I am thinking, for example, of Mothers for Peace, who herself has indicated that some of the people who have worked for her will be taken care of by herself. Not all of them, the others will be taken care of by Fedasil, just like all other people who have fought for certain rights and freedoms that we are happy to know here and who are not always familiar with in Afghanistan. Fedasil is present in Peutie to immediately assign and take persons in need of shelter to a shelter. A total of 277 people are being received, of whom 143 by Fedasil and 58 by the Defense Department, for whom we are examining with Fedasil how we can provide them further support. In addition, 26 people are currently being received by organisations for which they have worked. Of course, as Mrs Wilmès has pointed out, always subject to the fact that figures can still be updated with persons on their way to Belgium. Apart from the evacuation of Afghans, I would also like to say something about how we in Belgium deal with Afghan asylum applications. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless decides, of course completely independently, who is eligible for refugee status or subsidiary protection. In doing so, it shall examine first of all whether a person is recognised as a refugee and is granted in secondary order or subsidiary protection. With regard to Afghanistan, the CGVS will continue the handling of files. Interviews will still be organised. The CGVS will also continue to grant refugee status on the basis of specific risk profiles and prosecutions for activities, employment, etc. On 16 August the CGVS decided to suspend the subsidiary protection assessment until it is clear whether there would be a situation of generalised violence. That is a key element in the assessment. That decision shall initially apply until the end of September. The CGVS will therefore not be able to deliver refusal decisions in the near future. This presupposes an assessment of subsidiary protection, which is therefore currently suspended. It is up to the CGVS to decide independently how long this suspension should take. I cannot, or will not, address it there. I would also like to say a few words about the situation in the region and the migratory flows that may be associated with it. In recent months, we have seen a major increase in the number of internally displaced persons in Afghanistan. The European Union mentions 550,000 IDPs compared to 116,300 in the same period last year. In proportion to this, the number of people who have recently left the country is still relatively limited. The number of Afghans' arrivals in Europe in the first eight months of this year was, by the way, lower than last year. It is true that a number of Member States received disproportionately many asylum applications from Afghans. It is not true that the fact that the first eight months are relatively lower than last year says something about the months and years to come. The largest Afghans who have fled their country in recent years are still in Pakistan and Iran, respectively 1.4 million Afghans in Pakistan and 780,000 Afghans in Iran. For this reason, it is also very important to ensure that additional refugees who will end up in those countries are properly received there. It is clear that this type of situation requires a comprehensive approach and cooperation with other countries. Such a comprehensive approach must include both the strengthening of protection in the region, the possibility of providing effective protection for persons arriving in the European Union with a need for protection, and, above all, the control of migration. This kind of issue still needs to be further discussed at European level. Urgent consultations were held in connection with the evacuation with our European partners. There will also be an ad hoc JHA Council on Afghanistan on 31 August, in which I will participate. First of all, Belgium will continue to welcome people who arrive in our country, of course. This is a significant number. Solidarity issues will have to be addressed once again. Belgium has always presented itself as a solidarity country, and our country will continue to make its fair share. However, we cannot separate the issues of solidarity from the more political discussions within the framework of the European Pact, such as the principle that everyone arriving in the European Union should be screened. There are already many EU funds to support the asylum and relocation system, including AMIF funds. To date, the question of whether additional funds will actually be made available or not is unclear. However, they will be necessary. When people flee war and the reality given to them by international organisations, 90% of those people flee their region, then support in the region is of great importance. We must then ensure that these people do not have to travel thousands of kilometres in order to find the necessary, high-quality protection somewhere. We need to ensure that they can find this high-quality protection in the region as soon as possible. We must invest in this, just as we must protect those who come to us who need protection. However, Europe must not make the mistakes of 2015. Europe must ensure that screening is carried out at the border. Europe must ensure that we know who is coming in and that solidarity is guaranteed by all the European Member States, with everyone making the expected efforts, which is not always the case today. Finally, a word of thanks. First of all, I'm honored to be part of this operation. Mr Wilmès pointed it out: the last time such an operation took place was in 1994. I was six years old then. You cannot ask me how I felt then, but at any rate I am honored at this time to be part of this operation and to be able to cooperate with my great cabinet, but also with the cabinet staff of colleagues Wilmès, Dedonder and De Croo, and with the public services that have cooperated, such as our military and the consular staff on the ground. I'm very honored to be a part of that. This was an historic moment. I am honored that Belgium has done what was expected of us: to evacuate Belgian nationals, but also Afghans who, through their efforts in recent years, in their struggle for a free Afghanistan that they have led side by side with us, may not have been Belgian, but who have in fact always been one of ours. The challenges of migration will not be reduced in the coming years. Neither I nor my colleagues will have time to wander around on a runway in Melsbroek, but today I am especially glad to see images of young girls and young guests, 395 children at the moment, who can hop around in Belgium and who would still have been in the hands of the Taliban without this evacuation. Peter Buysrogge, President: Mr Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the work we made at the beginning of this sitting. Each group shall have a speaking time of 10 minutes. Members of each political group shall decide on the allocation of speaking time, for example one speaker speaking ten minutes, or five speakers two minutes each. As Presidents, we will ensure that the ten-minute speaking time is not exceeded. I would also like to add that there is no obligation to complete those ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in a first point, I would like to say that I think that this meeting should have taken place earlier. I think that we should think about the way Parliament works during the recess, because that is a problem. We see that other parliaments can play on the ball for a shorter time. I should like to express our sincere thanks to all the military and diplomatic personnel who, at their own risk, participated in these missions and carried out the orders. What happened in Afghanistan, I think, has been a reality check for many, and hopefully it has been for this government as well. Luuk van Middelaar wrote in De Standaard: "No, the whole world is not going to be like us." I think that illusion is indeed pierced. It is therefore important that we show sufficient realism in foreign policy. I'm glad the Prime Minister dropped the term "self-interest." They remain the cornerstone of a sound foreign policy. We have noticed, for example, that in the coalition agreement, the word'Afghanistan' was not mentioned at all, even though, of course, we were already committed at that time. Perhaps that is an explanation for the late reaction that has taken place from our country, in comparison with some neighbouring countries, which meant that many repatriations had to take place in dangerous circumstances. Perhaps this could have been avoided by more proactive action. For us, the whole thing has to be based on four pillars. The first pillar is, rightly, that people are entitled to repatriation because of a proven connection with Belgium, although their own responsibility also plays a role. That last element has already been mentioned, but the question arises as to how the government will deal with its own responsibility towards those people in the future. Secondly, when people are entitled to repatriation, we must, of course, ensure that only those people enter the country, because, in these chaotic circumstances, extremist elements can use and abuse them, as has already been established in neighbouring countries. We should not be naive in that. I hear from the Prime Minister that a screening has already taken place in Kabul and Islamabad. We will be interested in how many people did not pass through that screening, so how many people have already been stopped on the spot. Thirdly, and on this point, the Secretary of State has pointed out, among other things, that reception in the region will be of the utmost importance in the future. We must avoid the mistakes of 2015 and 2016. Finally, and then I look towards the Foreign Minister and the Government as a whole, in the future, we will have to look at how we can ensure that Afghanistan does not become a headquarters of not only fundamentalism, but above all terrorism. What policy will the government pursue in this respect? I give the floor to Mr Francken for the specific questions that we have on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u8	Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, I too would like to thank our soldiers and diplomats. It's very busy days and very short nights. This was an unseen operation. I regret that Parliament could not be briefed earlier, if necessary behind closed doors, as happened in all our neighbouring countries. I think that's a missed opportunity. What difference does the recess make? I have a number of specific questions. Firstly, you say that we have repatriated the Belgians despite a negative travel advice. The diplomatic code relieves us of the obligation to do so, but it is our humanitarian duty. Prime Minister, perhaps some thought could be given to getting the Belgians who have been repatriated to pay back some of the costs. That's just a suggestion I'd be happy to give you. After all, this operation costs millions. Maybe that can be recounted to those we saved. We are talking about the partners and the children, and you were talking about the nuclear family. Did any brothers, sisters, uncles, grandmothers or grandfathers come along? Can you confirm that this is certainly not the case? It is said that the procedure for family reunification will now be launched. Those people are already here, of course. What will be done if these people cannot prove that they are the man or the woman effectively? One cannot send them back, because the return story is also suspended. In that sense one should be careful with such holdebolder evacuations. If one says that the partner or children can enter without a visa and that they will then start a family reunification procedure according to all the rules in force, it is not according to the rule that that application should be made in the home country. If that is not according to the current rule, which is a demonstrable relationship of at least two years, then one is also stuck. The question is what will be done about it. As far as the interpreters and fixers are concerned, I have already put a dozen questions to Mrs Wilmès, Mr Mahdi and Mrs Dedonder over the last few months and I had the impression that this was never a very stressful situation. I heard at some point about about thirty, in the corridors I picked up the number of 42 and now there are already 79. Where did this figure come from? Two weeks ago, it was just one family. It wasn't important. One family with three people. Now it's 79. Then what is the criterion to be labeled as an interpreter or fixer? There's probably gonna be more. My third point concerns the vacationers. What bothers me greatly, and many people with me, is that this government has made the return of people recognised as refugees a priority. These are 225 people with a different status, either a visa for family reunification or a recognised refugee status. In the Netherlands, this group is given the lowest priority. I think it is very important to clarify this. People recognised as refugees should not return to or go on vacation in their country of origin at all, regardless of the travel advice. By taking those people back and flying in, they create illegality. After all, we are going to deliver these files to the CGVS with a view to withdrawing the refugee status and, where appropriate, the residence. Those people will become indestructible. After all, they cannot be sent back to Afghanistan because the return has been suspended, which means that they will end up illegally wandering around the Belgian territory. What kind of policy is that? What's the point of that? Surely that should not be the intention of a repatriation or evacuation operation? That's asking for trouble. I also find it disturbing for the hundreds of thousands of refugees in Europe who do comply with the rules and the Geneva Convention and who never return to their home country. They fall asleep crying every night because they know they can never see their family again, because they know that's the consequence. However, it turns out that many hundreds of refugees are simply going on vacation to their home country and that we are going to repatriate some of them. I don't understand. Finally, I would have liked to have been briefed on a number of points. There has been a lot of discussion within the government about whether or not to extend the EU-Turkey deal with Afghanistan to stop Afghans from migrating. I was able to question Mr De Vriendt about this at the Terzonder Studio and it was quite clear that Green does not support this enlargement. However, Mr Mahdi, a few days earlier, you mentioned the enlargement of the EU-Turkey deal with Afghanistan as a good proposal to identify and better limit migratory flows. So, Prime Minister, I will ask you: what is the government's position? Should the EU-Turkey deal be extended to include Afghanistan or not? Is it true that these behind-the-scenes negotiations are already under way through Schuman Square with Erdogan? Secondly, the resettlement. As you say, we have saved many people, but there are many more that have not yet been saved. Why can't one be his partner or his kids, but the other can't? Many hundreds of people were not allowed to let their families happen. They will remain the requesting party for a humanitarian visa programme or resettlement programme. I read today that Austria and Hungary do not agree. Mrs von der Leyen even thinks it is a moral duty to do so. Prime Minister, what is the Belgian position? Are you in favour of additional resettlement? This means flying in more Afghan families via a humanitarian air bridge from Islamabad? I would like to make a few comments on this matter. Finally, I would like to talk about the return. Mr Mahdi sent a letter three weeks ago to keep the return to Afghanistan possible. Green and Vooruit responded and said that this was not on their behalf. The circumstances prevent a return, but Mr Mahdi wants to look at this case on a case-by-case basis. Officially, there's not really a moratorium on that return. He doesn't think there's a return stop. Prime Minister, what is the full government's position on this matter? Is there a return stop to Afghanistan or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your detailed explanation. Colleagues, I do not know what that is like with you, but the feeling that prevails in me is a feeling of shame about the dramatic outcome of this Western operation. That feeling doesn't go away from me. The evacuation has been stopped. Although our country has made a very great effort, the bitter reality is that we must leave people behind. That's an immense affront. It only increases our moral responsibility to continue to help the Afghans, who have resisted the Taliban and extremism all along, in any way. As far as the evacuation itself is concerned, it is good that we have gone wide. Several Afghans were also evacuated. We have been ambitious and that was the only possible position. There's been criticism. Some say it would have been too slow in the beginning. Questions were also asked with the Afghans who were evacuated. Some members of the opposition acted as if we had flown directly into the Taliban. They only did this to scare people. I think that's a sheer shame. Some opposition members wanted to abandon Afghan human rights defenders and not transfer them to Belgium until later. I am very proud that this government has made a different choice and I would really like to thank the people of Defence, Foreign Affairs and Asylum and Migration for that huge operation. Dear Excellencies, however, it remains shameful that we cannot evacuate all Belgians, let alone human rights defenders, defenders of women's rights in Afghanistan. I hear they're trying to start commercial flights over the next few days and weeks. In order to make this possible, agreements must be made with the Taliban, which is purely operational. If these agreements can be made, it may be an option to re-use Defense aircraft, provided that there is a good and clear framework. In any case, let us continue our efforts to carry out repatriations and evacuations in any way possible. I would like to know whether we have called for an extension of the US presence in Afghanistan at the airport. After all, I have heard colleagues from you from Germany, the United Kingdom and France say that, and I have not heard Belgium say that, a little to my regret. Our country must plead for a coalition of the willing, for a strong European Union. There is a great deal of strategic autonomy. Frankly, that is an empty box if we are not able to take over an evacuation operation with a number of European countries, purely from the airport. That's been a wake-up call. In any case, this leaves a bitter aftertaste in my mouth. After 20 years of commitment in Afghanistan, we are now seeing a withdrawal in total chaos. We have a moral responsibility not to let the Afghans who have resisted the Taliban and extremism fall a second time. I am therefore talking about humanitarian aid, engagement in Afghanistan, including our country, but also about showing solidarity in the protection of Afghan refugees and Afghans who want to flee the Taliban. Colleagues, longer-term reflection is also needed on international military operations. In recent years, our Green Group has often criticised the operation in Afghanistan. I really hope that there will be a reflection in the government and here in Parliament, a military operation can only succeed within a good political framework. A lot of mistakes have been made in Afghanistan. For example, the lifeline between the Taliban and a number of parts and sectors in Pakistan has never really been cut. We never tried to put real pressure on Pakistan. About ten years ago, there was a chance of a political agreement. The Taliban were very weakened at the time. Those opportunities are not grasped, for example because we did not assign the UN the role they should have been given at that time. With regard to Afghanistan, our concern is with the defenders of democracy, freedom and women's rights and with the LGBTQI community. Afghanistan may not be a partner country, but we have international budgets, so we can free up aid for the Afghan people. The UN is there. So we are really asking Afghanistan, and certainly the Afghan people, not to turn their backs on it. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the immediate future. There are many debates on resettlement. Solidarity will be needed with regard to those who flee Afghanistan. So we are also counting on a fair contribution from Belgium. Reception in our own region certainly plays a role, but a fair contribution from our country to resettlement will also be necessary. For us, that is the logic itself and a question of credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u10	Thank you for your presentation. I would also like to join in thanking the staff who have mobilized in Belgium and Afghanistan. We are talking about 1,400 people in such a short time, which proves the professionalism of our teams. Today, I also have a thought for the people we still hear very little about: those who will remain in this nightmare – a country led by the Taliban. My first thoughts go to all these women and girls who will not run on the tarmac of our airports in the coming days – even if the image was very rewarding – to LGBT people and minorities in Afghanistan, who lived in dreams and will have to project themselves more into nightmares for the coming months. In terms of migration, people will continue to flee the Taliban: it is obvious, it is not fatal. In terms of migration policy, there is no fatality. There are decisions – correct – to be made at the right time. It is our responsibility to prepare and anticipate arrivals that will take place, whether we like it or not. That's the reality. As has been said by my colleagues, care must be taken not to duplicate the mistakes of the past. For the time being, there has been a lot of talk in European chancelleries about protecting themselves from migratory flows, even though there has not yet been any talk of protecting these people. Today I call on the government to also and above all to have this speech of protection towards these people and to be a driving force at EU level to prevent the rhetoric of the far right and the retreat from winning again. With regard to those who are not evacuated – we know that there are others – you have spoken about contacting the Embassy of Islamabad in Pakistan. But what guarantees will these people have? What procedure is possible for them? Mr Mahdi, you have spoken about preventing these people from crossing dangerous migration routes. It is true that the border countries are part of the solution to the refugee issue that will take place in the coming months. But the other part of the solution is a safe and legal way of relocating. Among other things, Canada, the United Kingdom and Uganda have announced that they want to be part of the relocation program. You've already talked about family reunification. How will it be possible when we know that DNA tests and deadlines are very complicated? I think these are questions that will have to be anticipated and answered quickly. There is still the question of humanitarian visas: will they be granted or will applications for humanitarian visas be possible from Belgium when we know the difficulties in travelling to Islamabad? There are other issues in terms of Afghan nationals in Belgium. Is there any more in the closed centres? This question seems to me to be legitimate and important. In terms of reception, will the services of the Aliens Office and Fedasil be increased in anticipation of arrivals of people from Afghanistan? Do not reproduce the error of 2015 would be wise. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a contradiction that has been noted today with what was said by the CGRA in early August. As a reminder, the CGRA announced that it was not acceptable to freeze decisions regarding Afghans, but today it is understood that, since the beginning of August, we have been telling our nationals in Afghanistan that the country is not safe and that they are insecure: "Do not go to Afghanistan!" On the other hand, at the same time the CGRA said: "No, we must not freeze Afghan returns since this does not pose a danger to their safety"! It is important to have coherence at this level, both for the Belgians in Afghanistan and for the Afghans in that country, who must have positive prospects. I've sent you a lot of questions. They will not find all answers today, but we will continue to work on them in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u11	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, first of all I thank you for accepting Parliament's invitation to come to our committee today and I join the congratulations to all the services and I welcome the cooperation that has existed between the services. I am pushing an of for relief, because if it had gone wrong, if one of the buses had had a big problem, we would have found ourselves today in the post-Rwanda situation. I think you've made a wise decision. I will focus more specifically on what the Defence has done. Today, it is under great pressure: since 2015, with its presence in the streets after the attacks, its mobilization during the pandemic, but also its assistance to the victims of the floods. We must not forget this problem and avoid creating worlds and oppositions between victims or refugees. As far as floods are concerned, we will probably come back to this in another model of committee. I recall that the military intervention in Afghanistan is taking place with a Defence which has all these tasks, it is taking place during a holiday period, but also with reduced equipment and personnel, the result of previous policies. We need to ask ourselves questions. How do we analyze the position of the big ally in NATO from George Bush to Joe Biden? The intervention in Afghanistan focused on two themes: first Enduring Freedom, for which the United States left alone and, in 2003, there was the ISAF in which we committed ourselves. We have been engaged for a very long time because we have never been caught in a lack of solidarity. It was we who secured Kabul airport, Kunduz, Mazâr-e Charîf etc. When we are taught the lesson at the NATO level, it is indeed not pleasant to hear. Prime Minister, you talked about a basic rule: we go in and out together. Every operation we launch, we don't have a crisis exit strategy. This is probably a lesson to be learned. Then, very quickly, this NATO operation turned into an American military operation. The aim was not to rebuild the country but to ensure security and avoid attacks in the United States primarily. That's what George Bush said and that's what President Biden has been saying over the last few days. We may not have worked properly because the huge sums that have been invested in Afghanistan have been invested mainly in the cities. We forgot the countryside. Rural areas in Afghanistan and poppy plantations, which are a source of funding for the Taliban, have not been addressed. There was also a poor understanding of the local context and some expectations. To be brief, we behaved there in the army of occupation most of the time. As far as Belgium is concerned, demining has been carried out and a lot of work has been done – particularly with the Germans – to combine cooperation and military security. The training of the Afghan military and the equipment made available were not adequate in view of what had happened. There was a Taliban presence on all terrains, not just in compounds. Then, as always, the Western forces tried to transpose the Western model. If we do not take care, in a few weeks, we may find ourselves here to talk about a similar problem with the Sahel and Mali. Today, France is pursuing an occupation policy. In all this, what have Europe and NATO served? Finally, Defence could have done more, if there had been European coherence, coherence at NATO level. Other means could have been used, such as helicopters. Finally, the citizens could have been welcomed more quickly in Puisie. But things didn't happen that way. There was no lead nation to organize the repatriation. A lesson must therefore be learned in that regard. Another element that needs to be considered is the absence of intelligence services. I am not going to be made to believe that the American intelligence services were not aware of the rapid progress of the Taliban, even though the Belgian newspapers referred to it. Unfortunately, intelligence services are what they are: they are jealous of their intelligence, they do not share. In this case, this may have dramatic consequences. For the future, what about relationships? It will have to be pragmatic and realistic. Attention will have to be paid to what is happening on the spot and to developments. All possible pressure will have to be exerted. We can't go back to a pariah state. If that were the case, we would condemn the people we left there, who will live there in a prison. We will also have to pay attention to what is happening in international meetings, to have a briefing before and after NATO meetings and at European level, as we have asked with others here. Peter Buysrogge, President: Mr Lacroix, I now give you the floor, knowing that you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u12	Mr President, I will try to be very brief by insisting on two or three aspects which seem important to the Socialist Group. Previously, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Ministers and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive report. I would also like to thank those who, on the spot, acted in a very exceptional and heroic manner. I would like to take stock of the disaster and the limitations of the US strategic retreat: EUR 2 000 billion spent on the war in Afghanistan, the death of 70,000 Afghan soldiers, 47,000 Afghan civilians and 4,000 Western soldiers. That's all for it! All this for NATO to be instrumentalised once again by the United States in the aftermath of the cold war, for specific American interests, with a hypocritical will that I strongly denounce here: "rebuilding Afghanistan". For what actually interested the United States, today as it did yesterday, was to negotiate for their own interests. The fate of Afghans, they don't care anymore. I am very pleased to have heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs say that the fate of women in Afghanistan is a concern now and will be one tomorrow. For all human rights, Belgium must remain vigilant and alert, and must ensure its presence in all international arenas in order to open up areas of discussion and negotiation, in order to ensure that human rights in Afghanistan are preserved as far as possible, in particular those of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged populations and those of women. This is less immediate, but it is part of the world heritage of humanity and I would like to stress everything that is cultural heritage in Afghanistan. There are 5,000 extraordinary archaeological sites there. We know how the Taliban treat cultural heritage. They demolished the famous Buddhas in 2001. I would like Belgium, through the international chambers, UNESCO and the United Nations, to be attentive, although this priority is obviously much less than the humanitarian priority today. I would like Belgium to become a bridge between these concerns as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u13	First of all, I want to congratulate the government on the speed and effectiveness of the action that has been taken under terrible conditions. It is a government that has demonstrated that union is a force, and I believe it must not be forgotten. I would also like to say thank you to our Secretary of State for the change of position on the attitude to be taken in the context of the return, with regard to the Afghan rejections. It is clear that the situation on the spot is dramatic. It is also clear that the Taliban are a threat to democracy and an immediate threat to the lives of many Afghan nationals on the ground, but also to the lives of those at home, regardless of their status. The question arises, of course, as to how long will this period of return be suspended? We will need clarity in the coming weeks. Mr Secretary of State, you mentioned the future consultation with the other European countries. What will be your position, at European level, on the concept of a safe country for Afghanistan? Will you seek the withdrawal of this concept for the whole of Afghanistan or its retention for certain parts of its territory? At European level, solidarity is needed with the countries of the region. I mean that you support a resettlement policy, in which the European countries would take part, ours in particular. What is our ability to support relocation, particularly in our host network?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u14	Mr. Rigot, may I ask you to conclude, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u15	In that case, I will refer to my questions. It is a pity, but I understand the need to respect the timing, that we have to postpone our questions on a debate that other colleagues have considered very important. I will refer to my written questions and will certainly return to our Secretary of State. In my view, it is important to have time to ask questions about the future of Afghans. I respect the time and your directive, Mr President, but I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u16	Mr President, after all these years of war in Afghanistan, human and financial costs are sky-high. The result is that 33 out of 34 Afghan provinces are now in the hands of the Taliban and that the West has been humiliated, with all the consequences, including for our soft power. The decision of the Tromp administration to gradually withdraw the troops from the Afghan wasp's nest was the right decision. The endless wars in the Middle East, in which we, too, are being dragged along through NATO, have hopefully ended once and for all. The liberal dream that enough bombs and euros can be used to build nation around the world and that centuries-old peoples and traditions can be wiped out is, I hope, a thing of the past. The Afghan conflict may be over, but we will feel its negative footprints for a long time to come, including with us. A real threat of terrorism, difficult situations for our interpreters and fixers and above all a new massive wave of migration are problems that require a firm, coordinated approach from all the departments present here today. Unfortunately, a false start was already made. Although no time has been wasted on a parliamentary debate which is only taking place now, long after the facts and even after the last evacuations, the Belgian Government seems to have gone much too late for planning and action. That is, by the way, not a reproach to our people on the ground: they are doing an excellent job. The people responsible for this malaise are sitting here with us today. The government's apologies soon followed the shame. Prime Minister De Croo said in the media that the United States was blamed for having put us before the facts of their withdrawal. Minister Dedonder came up with a similar excuse: she thought we had been put on the spot. Can you explain to me why this was not the case in so many other countries, and can you explain to me at once how you can be presented with facts if the United States announced their withdrawal from Afghanistan last year? Could it be that you simply had no sense of how many new Belgians were present in Afghanistan? I was also quite disturbed by the numbers in communication. They seemed to multiply very quickly. First we would evacuate 400 people, that became 500 and meanwhile we are already at more than 1,400. There is also a great deal of follow-up migration and family reunification, plus an endless flow of illegal migration, which almost always evolves into a permanent settlement in our country. This illegal migration is still stirred up by the bad signals our government sends out about return and the attraction of the growing Afghan diaspora in our country. Where do we stop mass migration in our country? What is this fair share you just mentioned, Mr Mahdi? Another 10,000, 20,000? When will it finally be enough? According to the green and red Vivaldi coalition partners, there is no limit on mass migration, even if it is illegal. Anyone who wants to migrate from Afghanistan to Belgium must be able to do so, whether it is with Belgian military transport or simply through illegal smugglers. Could you, by the way, make an immediate assessment of the legal follow-up migration that we will still be able to process by the people who have already been brought here from Afghanistan? How strict or, more likely, how flexible will you be? Both Prime Minister De Croo and Secretary of State Mahdi tried to appease us with a list that had to be finished. However, if there are questions about who exactly is on that list and what the criteria are for getting on the list, then it is quiet across the street. To VRT NWS, Prime Minister De Croo said: "Our first priority is now to bring people to safety and only to return those who are entitled to it. We have drawn up a list of those who are entitled to protection: they are Belgians, but also Afghans who have worked for us." Should we consider that answer as exhaustive, Mr De Croo? Apparently not. Meanwhile, Afghan sports women and human rights activists are also being discussed. Just now, even the term "high-risk Afghans" was spoken by state secretary Mahdi. Then how is that determined? What exactly are the criteria for this? Belgians and Afghans who have worked for us can be very clearly defined. However, how exactly does one define "activists" or "Afghans at high risk"? How do we decide who will suffer from the Taliban regime in order to obtain the privilege of being transferred to Belgium? To return to the statements of Prime Minister De Croo: the right you speak of, that Afghans would have to be flown to Belgium by us, how exactly do you fill that out? I can understand that we have a duty to bring our countrymen back here, even when most of them should never have become compatriots. I can understand that we have a moral duty to help the very select Afghans group that helped our military as interpreters or fixers, but what other Afghans do you think have the right to be flown to Belgium? Is that right enforceable, Mr. De Croo? That would set quite a precedent. If you conjure up such heavy terms, we can at least expect you to clarify this. These are by no means the only questions that raise these so-called evacuations. Just now, for the first time, you provided information about the on-the-spot screening and ex post by our security services. Many questions remain open. You say that identity documents had to be submitted. What happened if nothing could be presented? Is it true that people who claimed to be family members could come to Belgium without ID? The safety screening appears, according to your explanation, to be done afterwards in Belgium. Has that happened in the meantime for everyone who was brought from Afghanistan to Belgium? Nor did you say anything about the results of that screening. Have people already been placed under supervision, as is already the case in France, for example? If so, how many people and for what reasons? As unfortunately we only have ten minutes to speak, I have to delete many of my prepared questions. Mr Dedonder, can you say once and for all how many interpreters and fixers have worked for the Belgian army in Afghanistan, what criteria are being used for that and how many of those people, whether or not with their nuclear families, have already been brought to Belgium? Another question that arises, not only from members of the opposition, but also from many citizens, is what the Afghans once fled, now Belgians, actually did in Afghanistan. Despite a very clear negative travel advice and despite the fact that recognised refugees are not allowed to return to the country from which they allegedly fled, hundreds of Belgians appeared to be in Afghanistan. Who goes on vacation to the country they say they've ever fled from? How many recognized refugees were among the evacuated? How do you estimate that the CGVS will assess these cases? You say that, in certain circumstances, a return of recognised refugees to the country of origin is allowed. Do a vacation or wedding fall under those circumstances? Yesterday I read in the media that 27 Afghans were simply dropped off in the Walloon city of Spa. The mayor said that there was no framework for Fedasil and that she should therefore appeal to the inhabitants of the municipality, despite the fact that many of them were severely affected by the floods. The mayor's quote sounds like this: "To the surprise of the city administration, the refugees were not framed by Fedasil at all. The Afghan families with children had to be received and fed by the victims of the flood. As if the situation is not bad enough with covid, the floods and the pressure from the opening of a new asylum centre, I hear that another 86 people are expected in the municipality. If they are equally well framed, it will be a catastrophe." Mr Mahdi, do you think that is a responsible policy? It cannot become clearer than that cynical anecdote, that our own people always come last, even after floods. That's sad. During this uncertainty, it is crucial to create additional reception capacity in Afghanistan's neighbouring countries. We can play a supporting role in this. That is not only better for the Afghans themselves, because they can easily return to their homeland when the situation normalizes, it is also better for us, because then we do not have the huge adverse effects of a new migratory flow from Afghans to our country, but we can help a lot more people in their own region. What is the government's position on this matter? Were steps taken in the meantime to actually achieve this? Last, most logical point, ladies and gentlemen, we must protect our external borders. Your call, Mr Mahdi, for more European solidarity is completely out of place. We must adapt our position to those of Greece and Austria, among others. We must protect the European Union's external borders from illegal migration. If this fails or fails in time, we must assume our own responsibilities and secure our own borders. Indeed, certain borders represent a safe and secure future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u17	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, thank you very much for the developments and the many answers you have given to our questions that we have already had the opportunity to convey to you about this very sad situation. I was already saying that in April, when we, as a junior partner in the North Atlantic Alliance, had to undergo this decision by the United States to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan. Already at that time, we were concerned about the protection of Afghan citizens and their fundamental rights. The rights and progress that had been initiated, especially for women and the progress achieved, are now being destroyed. They really plunge us into a sad and catastrophic situation. After 20 years of being there, we can only deplore this very dramatic situation. I repeat, of course, what some colleagues have already said. A first question arises very naturally. I hear the Deputy Prime Minister saying that we will have to remain attentive to this protection of human rights, fundamental rights, but from 30 August next, that is to say the day after tomorrow, we will have great difficulties in helping those we leave behind. So how can this help be organised? Can it finally organise itself, which I was already echoing in the resolutions that I had tabled and which were adopted on 1 July last year, in the interests of coherence at European level, in defence, in the interests of coherence and better dialogue with our transatlantic partner on this issue. It is noted that important information has not been taken into account and I regret it bitterly. I would also like to say how much I appreciate all the efforts that have been made in terms of organisation, capacity for reception, repatriation and I know that, from a logistical point of view, all this has not been easy. Nevertheless, I call for greater coherence in this matter, dear members of the government. You know what I am echoing, that is to say, the situation that we have had to see in my region, in the commune of Spa, where certain coumacs have taken place in relation to the care of arrivals from Afghanistan in particular. Again, I would like to see more coordination in the future in order to try to prevent certain situations which, I repeat, are already particularly difficult in my region, for the reasons you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u18	We are going to ask for an agenda for Katrin Jadin's motion for a resolution in favour of Afghan women. It is important, especially given the current situation, that we can discuss it quickly. At the outset, I would like to thank and congratulate the entire government for its action. You demonstrated your ability to respond quickly to a completely unexpected situation in the face of the failure of all intelligence services, be they European or American. I really want to tell the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang that I prefer to have a debate a few days later, with a mobilized government that works and actually meets the results that have been yours in terms of repatriation and evacuation. Of course, it was essential for you to be at work. However, this is obviously a total and collective failure. When one sees the images, after a military presence of almost 20 years, one thinks of those of 1975 at the airport of Saigon. It's not just a withdrawal, it's a leak, it's a slap for our soldiers who were there for almost 20 years and who were training the Afghan military. It is to be believed that training, in general, was not optimal. That will necessarily deserve you, Minister of Defence, to take stock of the quality of the training provided by our soldiers and by the allies to the Afghan military. It's also a slap for the taxpayer. In fact, 500 million euros have been injected for operations in Afghanistan. Today, it is Berezina for values and for women's rights. This is extremely worrying, especially since we still have, it seems, the Prime Minister, Belgians on the spot. So I'd like to know exactly how much. It's a cross-sectional matter. We are talking about Belgians and rights holders. How many are still there today? It is likely that they will be invited to be evacuated and repatriated. Have you decided at the government level to invite them to go in that direction and return to the country? I think it is important that we indicate the nature of the message you are sending them today. Similarly, you decided that forced returns would no longer be possible until 1 September. Let's be good. Of course, in a country with humanistic values like ours, we will not forcibly return people to Afghanistan beyond 1 September. At least I hope so; I could not agree with such a decision. I will make a point on domestic policy. As you said, screening is essential, as we know. At the end of the war in Syria, we know that a number of radicals and people with terrorist intentions have slipped into the ranks of refugees. I would like you, Mr Secretary of State, to indicate to us, for future refugees, not only for those who have been repatriated and evacuated, if a more thorough screening and monitoring will be carried out. In conclusion, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your action on this issue. As you said in your remarks, channels of information and exchange are open and they have nothing to do with a political recognition of the regime. This regime is not legitimate. President Ghani's elections were legitimate. It's a Taliban coup in Afghanistan. As a Liberal and as a Democrat, I believe that our moral support must go towards Afghan resistance. It is a political matter to see what will happen tomorrow. I am talking about moral support today and I am speaking in my personal capacity, but it will be my view to ensure that tomorrow Belgium does not recognize the Afghan government as legitimate. Perhaps you will be able to inform us of the matter in the coming weeks. Will we finally be able to benefit from a common European position on this matter? You have talked about bilateral cooperation with a number of European countries in the context of repatriations and evacuations, but it must be recognised that this is not necessarily a coordinated action at European level, and that is regrettable. So, Madam Minister of Defence, while thanking you and your colleagues for the speed of the reaction, we may find it useful to have explanations about the 24 hours of beating that have been at the heart of a number of exchanges at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u19	Mr President, we must thank the staff of all the organisations, the government, the bodies that have clearly made this operation a success. The original reason for early recall of the Committee on Home Affairs was the letter sent by Secretary of State Mahdi and some of his European counterparts to the European Commission on the situation in Afghanistan. It was a nuanced letter with several good points. However, this letter was quickly reduced by some to a single point, namely the possibility of sending back to Afghanistan people who are not entitled to international protection. I have already called for peace and confidence in the assessment of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and of the Foreign Affairs Service. However, the letter sent to the European Commission by the Secretary of State and his colleagues also addressed in greater depth the support for Afghan refugees in the region. In the letter, the signatories point out that 4.6 million Afghans have already been displaced. Many of them reside in Afghanistan's neighbouring countries. CD&V therefore supports the call by the various ministers to provide the best possible support for people in need of protection residing in those neighbouring countries and to consider, at European level, how to increase reception capacity in the region. Europe has a moral duty to provide shelter for those who need help. This was recorded by the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, this week. We can fully support that. In order to avoid a new refugee crisis and division between them, von der Leyen called on the European Member States to agree on reception quotas in such a way that the European Union can take care of these people in need together. I have some questions about screening the people we evacuate. France has already placed some persons who would have ties with the Taliban under judicial supervision, after using the chaos in Kabul to get on board an evacuation flight. Are such cases already known in our country? If so, what are the consequences for these people? It is clear that we are betting on a quadruple check, but I would like to hear whether people have already slipped through the meshes of the net. We are evacuating Belgians, but also core families, people who do not necessarily already have residence documents for our country. How will it be verified that the people concerned meet the conditions for doing so? Mr Secretary of State, in the media, you yourself cited the example of the 14-year-old boy who, on the basis of an adult on board the plane, turned out not to have any connection with the person concerned and who is now being treated as an unaccompanied minor. How do we try to prevent such incidents? Evacuated Afghans who do not yet have a residence permit will now start an asylum procedure. Does Fedasil have sufficient reception capacity for these people? As far as our national security is concerned, we are told in the press that an internal mail message is already being sent to the police warning that there may also be extremely violent persons among the Afghan refugees who will be entering our country in the near future. This could include smugglers, extremists and recruiters. For this reason, the police would have already been given the task of analysing Afghan youth gangs in the asylum centres. Indeed, some members of these gangs who already reside in our country would already be aggressive. Among other things, through TikTok and other similar fora, content would be disseminated that could incite violence. Is this message true? If necessary, will this phenomenon continue to be monitored outside the asylum centres? We also have a question about vaccination. We read in Reuters that the number of Afghans who have been vaccinated has fallen further, especially after the takeover by the Taliban. Are people who have been evacuated vaccinated here? Is this a possibility? How is this being followed up? Before I give the floor to my colleague Van Hoof, I would like to ask some important issues for CD&V. Firstly, most importantly, the decision taken to stop repatriation is the right one, given the explosions at the airport. If I understand Mrs Wilmès correctly, there are still 114 people present. How will we get these people here as soon as possible, if they are willing to come to our country, in a safe way? Secondly, we must prepare ourselves as closely as possible for the flow of refugees which will undoubtedly resume in the coming months and years. European cooperation and solidarity is crucial here. Europe now has the opportunity to show that it is able to learn lessons from the 2015 refugee crisis. Thirdly, we in Belgium must stand for a correct and strict but humane asylum policy. In this way, we create support for the reception of people in need of our protection and guarantee our national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u20	I agree with Mr Demon's words of thanks. In this sitting I have already heard talk of shame and failure, but perhaps we should also talk about madness, because madness is defined as doing the same thing over and over again, but expect different results. That description certainly fits with the American military operations of recent decades. We saw the same thing in Iraq, where we pulled away and created a power vacuum where ISIS jumped in. The same is happening today in Afghanistan and it is the chronicle of an announced crisis. The government on the ground was supported internationally, but the army itself, 300,000 strong forces, did not meet the necessary support from that government. They seemed pearls to the swine, but what we put there, are they pearls? At the beginning of July I read in De Standaard the statement of a general major who said it was an Afghan failure and that we actually need introspection. The emphasis on the military aspect with armored vehicles and training Afghan troops from imposing fortresses and with cultural arrogance is no longer working. It takes another arsenal to pacify a society. No one can be forced to embrace democracy. That is what we are establishing today. I therefore believe that we should learn lessons in the field of defence. We are working on conflict prevention, but we also need to build society. We must embrace the whole-of-society approach. Prime Minister, I have heard you say that we need to think about the strategic concept in NATO and about strategic autonomy. However, these matters must not only be viewed from a military perspective, but also from a global perspective. That is why I ask you whether, in addition to defence, the aspect of necessary social development is being taken into account. I would also like to talk briefly about women's rights and human rights activists. The Secretary of State just referred to the Belgian project Mothers for Peace. I am very pleased that most of the staff have been brought to safety, for which I would like to express my express gratitude. However, there are still a lot of women on the ground who have to live under the Taliban. They are deeply concerned about their freedom of movement and access to education. It has already been said today that they are temporarily unable to go to work, which is terrible. I heard Minister Wilmès say that she regrets what happened at the Human Rights Council: there has been no demand for international mechanisms and research missions, for a mechanism to be put in place to check whether human rights violations are still taking place. In my view, we absolutely must work for this, and if the UN does not succeed, we must advocate it at European level. You are talking about a broad strategic debate, including at European level. I hope you will be able to enforce those mechanisms at that level. We must absolutely not believe in that so-called 'taliban 2.0', which claim to have changed. Hopefully it is not just words, but also actions. You claim to choose a peaceful solution. Human rights would be respected: first see and then believe. We can't fall for the trap. Madam Minister, will you argue for these strong mechanisms to ensure that human rights are respected? After all, the Taliban are system rivals. They do not support international rights and freedoms. Today we can do nothing but adopt a pragmatic attitude. Everything else must be subject to international mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u21	I thank the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary of State for their introduction. I had heard that the Prime Minister would present an assessment of the situation and I had the hope of hearing a review of the intervention as such. But it seems that the record has been limited to the last few months and to the way things have happened. It is important to review the overall picture of this intervention. Some comments over the past few days express surprise, feelings of failure, shame, as if it were something that fell from heaven. We didn't expect things to happen like this, that the intelligence didn't do their job well... I'm surprised to hear so many surprises. Because the result of this intervention is known from the beginning. I come back in 2001 when Mr Bush declared war on Afghanistan: the PTB was the only party to strongly oppose this intervention. All the traditional parties here supported this intervention. Ah! All traditional parties supported this intervention! What is the result of this? Twenty years later: 175,000 deaths, more than $2,000 billion spent on this war and total chaos, a catastrophic situation. That was exactly the speech that the PTB had given in 2001: this war would create a catastrophic situation like all the wars that were waged by the United States and NATO. Look at the situation in Libya, Iraq, Syria. All these wars against the backdrop of interventionist policies and American imperialism have never produced anything but chaos and disaster. This war has been justified for various reasons. It was said that a democratic state should be built there. Nothing is more false. This has never been the objective of this intervention. Those who still believe in it naively just have to listen to Mr. Biden. He himself said so. Mr. Biden said that building a state had never been the goal. This is therefore a first argument which is completely misleading. Nothing is more false. We were said to be involved in defending human rights and women's rights. Why don't we intervene in Saudi Arabia then? Because it's a democratic country? Are these rights respected there? Is it an exemplary country? Is that why economic contracts and partnerships are being made with Saudi Arabia? Maybe I have a bad perception. If Saudi Arabia is a democratic country, let me know. I feel like a Taliban country has succeeded. Coming with these good intentions to justify this deadly and catastrophic intervention in Afghanistan is hypocritical. When such arguments are put forward, it is to justify the failure of this interventionist policy of the West, which has never given nothing but disasters in the countries where these interventions have been carried out. I wonder when we're going to take this stock. When will this interventionist policy and interference in other countries be called into question? How many deaths and political instability in the world would it take to say that this logic must be changed? How long will we continue to intervene solely for the strategic and economic interests of the United States? Since it wasn't to build a state – the Americans themselves say it – and it wasn't for the rights of men or women – because we trade with countries that absolutely don't respect them – it's only for strategic and economic interests. The Americans know that very well. They say it and don't hide from it. On the other hand, we veil our faces and continue to blow our feet together as soon as Washington decides to intervene here or there. Among the consequences of these interventions are the refugee crisis. You mustn't hide your face. When there's war somewhere, there's refugees on their own. We agree on that. These refugees are the result of our intervention. We are responsible for these waves of refugees. On this point I see a lot of cynicism, and in particular yours, Secretary of State, when you say that forced returns to Afghanistan should not be suspended, despite all the recommendations of the European Union. You have even written a letter to the European Commission saying that returns should not be suspended and that people should continue to be sent to countries that are at war and in which we are waging war. This is cynicism, Secretary of State. Fortunately, you have returned to this statement and to this position, and the forced return is suspended for the time being. I wonder if you regret these statements. Do you think you made a mistake? Do you feel the need to correct it to take the current position? I would also like to know whether these early August statements are your own individual statements, or whether they are statements that represent a government position. We talked about the refugees and the reception policy. I also have a question about the Afghans in the closed centres. Given that they cannot be returned to a country that is now considered unstable and dangerous, since this is the government's recommendation to the various citizens not to visit that country, I wonder what will be the attitude towards the Afghans who are in the closed centres. What are you going to do? Are you going to fire them? Otherwise, are you going to keep them in these prisons or are you going to put a policy in place? I'd like to know what your plan is about that. With regard to evacuations and repatriations, I wonder whether the government had an evacuation plan or whether it acted in accordance with the requirements imposed by the United States, which guided this evacuation. If there was a plan, what was it? Evacuations are now under arrest, but repatriations continue. That is what you said, Prime Minister; I would like to know how this repatriation will be done and what plan is in place. What steps will be taken to make it successful? I would like to ask one more question. Ms Wilmès reported earlier that a Belgian soldier had been shot and wounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u22	He is not a Belgian soldier, but a Belgian citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u23	Please excuse my mistake. In any event, this Belgian was reportedly shot and wounded by an American soldier, according to the information that is circulating. Do you confirm this information? If so, how do you explain that a soldier of an Allied army can shoot a Belgian? I don't understand! I would therefore like to know your views on this. Mr President, I will conclude by saying the following: 20 years have passed since our intervention in Afghanistan, since our interventions in Iraq, Libya and Syria. Today, this part of the world is burning because of the wars we have waged. Do you not think that it would be time to become aware of this and to take stock of this imperialist American policy that leads us into a Western imperialism that is a source of instability and a threat to peace in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u24	Mr President, Madam President, Prime Minister, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your presence and the extensive explanation given to the committee. We've already gotten a lot of information. From our group, we also express our gratitude to the services that have made this operation work smoothly: Defence, Foreign Affairs, DVZ, medical care providers and logistics providers. Thank you very much from our group. The operation itself has been efficient, as you have shown with the figures. It also made sense for you to decide last night to put this stop. The suicide attack a few hours ago at Kabul Airport, with thirteen deaths and apparently children among them, confirms the accuracy of this decision. It was a particular challenge in terms of planning, implementation, equipment, staff. It was dangerous conditions in which our soldiers and diplomats had to work on the ground. We therefore think it appropriate to fully analyse this operation and report on what has happened in detail there and this in the follow-up Committee on Foreign Shipments. This can and must be done quickly so that Parliament can know the details behind closed doors. The speed of the implosion of Afghanistan is striking. The Prime Minister has already explained it in detail. Mr Pillen already asked a few questions about this in May. Minister Dedonder, you spoke in July about some thirty interpreters and fixers who are of great importance to our country. Are these people with their nuclear families all in our country? Or are there other people in danger over there? Are there any people who need to come back? Is that list ticked off? We believe that these people have a right to exist and build their lives here, because they have been loyal to us there. As far as evacuations are concerned, the United States is and remains the leading force. They took place until August 31st and could never have happened without them. This brings us to the call for a more European approach and a more European army. More than ever, it appears that we could have done even better with the unity of command and with coordinated means than what has happened on the ground today. With regard to a European army, Prime Minister, you just said that the EU must work towards genuine strategic autonomy. After all, a European army of 50,000 soldiers would not have helped in this case. A more streamlined foreign policy, more European defence, strategic autonomy, these are all challenges for real European design over the next few months and years. Then I come to the subject of Asylum and Migration. The figures are given. Mr Secretary of State, I am also very pleased to hear that the CGVS will be independent about the situation in Afghanistan and what needs to be done with the Afghans who have recently arrived here or have been with us for a long time and that you or other politicians will not decide on it. It is an independent body that will do this. I am also pleased to hear that four checks have been carried out: by ADIV, the State Security, OCAD and the Federal Police, with the people who have come here. It's necessary. I hope that this method will also be followed for the Afghans who will come through relocalisation or shelter. In relation to Europe, you said yourself, Mr Secretary of State, we must avoid the same thing happening as in 2015. You said it yourself, shelter in your own region is crucial. Europe must make a plan for this and not just Belgium. What are we going to do about the Turkey deal bis? Mr Francken also mentioned this. What will happen to hotspots and so on? We really need to do something about that. It is also the time for the EU to go outside its comfort zone, to do so now. Prime Minister, Secretary of State, I have one specific question for you. What are you going to do at European level not to repeat the 2015 mistakes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, after the fall of the Taliban in 2001, I had the pleasure of visiting Afghanistan several times with the UN, with the then Prime Minister and with the then Minister of Defence, but more often with the NGOs for Peace, a name that has already been mentioned here a few times. We have spent the last 20 years there, together with the local population, helping to give women and girls a future. Each year when we returned, we saw very good progress, even though the situation has never been ideal as was said earlier. Education improved, there were testimonies from girls and women who could read and write for the first time. It's unbelievable what that means for their lives. The choices that girls were given, the freedoms such as working, making open music, going free... So there had been huge progress and we all cooperated in that. Despite their strength and their hope, however, many of these women and girls always saw the uncertainty in their eyes. There was uncertainty about their future, but they also, of course, held a possible return of the Taliban, with the loss of their acquired freedoms in mind. Unfortunately, their uncertainty ended on 16 August. The nightmare's come true. We are now wondering how to proceed with these acquired freedoms and everything we have achieved over the past 20 years in terms of women's rights. The Taliban has announced that they will respect women's rights, at least according to their own interpretation based on Sharia. However, we do not know what that means, because there is nothing precise about that. I think we can be very brief, as our Prime Minister said: there is no place for naivety. Those women and girls' rights are in grave danger. It is not just about women's rights, but also about the social and economic future of a country. If half of the population is oppressed and cannot participate, it will, of course, have a negative impact on the development of a country. That country will become even more difficult economically, resulting in even greater flows of refugees. My question is very specific, Madam Foreign Minister. You said that we will come to a political solution and talked about exerting relative pressure. I'm gonna ask myself some questions about that. What relative pressure can you exert on the Taliban to accept and even implement international women's rights in their society? Which stick do we have behind the door as the European Union, and how are we going to use it? Do we have anything outside the blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, That seems to me to be an essential question. What support can our country continue to offer to civil society organisations on the ground? We are thinking of women's rights, but also of the LGBTQ+ community, which is going to be very difficult. Finally, I would like to thank everyone, in particular for the safe repatriation of Mothers' various employees for Peace. 21 people, mainly women and children, are now safe in our country. The opposition was wondering exactly what was going on. These people are indeed at great risk. At the time, they stuck their necks out by teaching women, by explaining and giving access to family planning and contraception, by lobbying the government for inheritance and other rights... They stuck their necks out! My question now is how many of them are left behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u26	Thank you to the members of the government for their answers to our questions about repatriation and the human rights situation in Afghanistan. I will not ask any more questions myself, but I would like to make a brief statement in which the focus is on defence. I would like to begin by thanking all Belgian soldiers who have risked their lives in Afghanistan for years, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In addition, I would like to thank the employees of Defence, Foreign Affairs and Asylum and Migration. They have made difficult and important decisions in recent weeks in very difficult circumstances to evacuate our compatriots, the Afghans who have assisted the Western troops and human rights and women's rights activists. For many of these people it must be extremely painful and difficult to watch patiently how the work they have done on the ground for many years is now lost. What our group has to say on defence matters is that we are drawing lessons from almost 20 years of military presence in Afghanistan, an overwhelmed by the Taliban in a few weeks' time, the very chaotic withdrawal and evacuation. In short, from our military operation as a whole. What were the objectives of our military operation in Afghanistan? Was it necessary to be there for almost 20 years? How many years should we have stayed there to achieve the objectives? What was the added value for the West and for our country in particular? Those questions were not enough for us to debate before the operation, but also during the operation, and certainly in this Parliament. The lesson that Afghanistan should teach us is that it actually proves the bankruptcy of our military operations as we traditionally organise them. What our country needs and what our group has been asking for for years is a legal review framework for military operations. That means three things. First and foremost, we must agree in advance on the objectives and conditions of these military missions. We do not go to a country or stay there if it does not serve our interests, and we must be able to take that decision independently and not if the US, NATO or any other ally snaps their fingers, which was the case in Afghanistan because it is the US that has taken the decision and we have always been followed. Secondly, there is also a need for more European cooperation, so that the US does not put us on the spot, as some colleagues have already argued. In addition, Belgium itself must be able to consider in all independence whether a military operation is useful for starting and/or continuing. In addition, there has actually been no political discussion about what has now been the finality and the objective of this military mission. Was it only Al-Qaeda expulsion or was it also reconstruction? Or did we want to build a state? In that case, we also need resources other than military resources, such as development cooperation. That is something that needs to be discussed in advance in this Parliament, so that defence is given a clear and strong mandate and there is also a public support base. There is also a need for sufficient openness and transparency during the operation. For us, the reporting to the follow-up committee for Foreign Shipments today is insufficient. The objectives and conditions that we set in advance for a military mission must also be assessed in the light of reality, and there must be regular parliamentary and thorough public debate on them. In this way, the added value of presence can be regularly evaluated. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate should be held before or during the operation. This will create a social basis, including for the possible consequences of these evacuations, such as the repatriation of Afghans. Without that social support, certain political parties will use it conveniently to turn our own people against those Afghans. Thirdly, there must be an evaluation of the mission once it is finished. What happens in other countries must also be possible for us. Great Britain, for example, published a comprehensive report on the mission in Libya in 2016. The conclusions were devastating, but only in this way can one learn from one's own mistakes. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are making a two-pronged appeal. First of all, we want to thoroughly evaluate our military operation in Afghanistan. We also want to set up a legal review framework for future military operations. We have tabled a proposal for this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u27	Providing protection to those in need is an important starting point for Vooruit. It was also the starting point of this government in the evacuation under very difficult conditions. Praise for that! I will talk about a number of migration aspects. Today there is a lot of talk about future migration movements, but we do not really know very much about this for the time being. Moreover, it depends on what the international community will do. Over the past six months, hundreds of thousands of displaced persons have been registered in their own countries. The Secretary of State has already referred to this. If, after this evacuation, we want to protect those who need it, regardless of where that person is, this must be done first and foremost through the international organisations that remain active there even after withdrawal. If we want to provide protection after the evacuation, we will also have to help the neighbouring countries, where there are already millions of refugees. This must also be done through adequate funding from international organisations. This is an ambitious form of protection in the region that improves the lot of millions. Moreover, this ensures that refugees are not forced to continue to flee because of the appalling circumstances. I am thinking of funding organisations such as UNHCR and the World Food Programme. Many make the comparison with Syria in 2015. That civil war started in 2011 and the crossing took place only years later, in 2015. The Syrians, among other things, were completely abandoned in Turkey. Let us not repeat that mistake. The World Food Programme in Turkey was totally underfunded and the Syrians were forced to flee to Europe. We must therefore get rid of the idea that refugees want to come to Europe. Hence my plea for more ambitious protection in the region, knowing that the majority of refugees are there and that neighbouring countries will keep their borders closed if they are not assisted by international organisations and have to bear all the costs themselves, with the result that refugees are trapped. In the meantime, the Secretary of State has confirmed that he will advocate at European level an improvement in the fate of those millions of people. Will Belgium take this into account in budgetary control? Many people very much like to talk about protection in the region, but in these circumstances it is necessary to take action through a joint federal effort. If we want to protect those who need it after the evacuation, we will also have to do so through resettlement. For Vooruit, this is inextricably linked to more ambitious protection in the region. Mr Secretary of State, what are your specific plans in this regard? Do you also foresee a growth path? If, after the evacuation, we want to protect those who need it and keep the external borders closed, then we will have to look for a number of other ways to reach them. After this evacuation, there will be unfortunate stragglers and other people in great danger anyway. There have been humanitarian visa operations in Syria before. We've learned a lot from that. This government has shown in very difficult circumstances that it has taken a great deal of account, including the lessons learned from the Kucam case. I regret how part of the opposition has really done everything in its power to create a negative perception of the evacuation. This time they were directed to all possible Belgian control services, with an additional security screening after arrival, which was not the case before. In the case of humanitarian visas in the Kucam case, we did not even know when the aircraft arrived in Belgium, because there was no follow-up. This time there are arrangements made, with DVZ, Fedasil and the Red Cross and there is even guidance. Mr Secretary of State, what further guidance is there, other than Mothers for Peace? The opposition also forgets that Belgians are Belgians and therefore belong to them and should therefore be repatriated, whatever roots they have. That's basic for Vooruit. Take also the problem of family reunification applications. It's only natural, for God's sake, for people to take care of this now. It's about fucking his own family, saved from the taliban claws. There is now control of DVZ among others and now that would be a problem. Everyone wants their family or family to be safe, that's a universal fact. I'm glad this government is acting that way. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a plea for a system on his Canadian, whereby, within certain quotas, an application can be made by citizens and certain organisations, providing guidance for each humanitarian visa issued, especially if the borders remain closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, as we speak, a terrorist attack is under way at Kabul airport. Various media have confirmed this: two explosions took place and resulted in some 15 deaths and dozens of injuries. That terrorist threat was therefore real. This morning, a British government minister announced that an attack would take place. How much information do you have about this attack? It feels like everyone knew that this attack would take place. What do you know about this attack? What information did you have? Who could have carried out this attack? What have we done to try to prevent this attack? I am thinking of the victims, of this continuing terror and of the fact that it seems that we have done nothing to prevent this attack. Having said that, I would also like to join in paying tribute to our military, our officials, our diplomats and the government for Operation Red Kite. Everyone did what he could and everyone tried to do the best. I am talking about the operation itself and certainly not about its preparation and anticipation. Thank you for the details provided on this operation. Prime Minister, I expected something else from you. You gave a lot of details about Operation Red Kite and you said we had to take our strategic autonomy. As head of government, I expected you to take stock of what happened in Afghanistan, not only about our presence there, but also about the violent coup d'état, the Taliban takeover, what it means to the Afghan people, to international security and to our own security. When we want to raise our heads politically, we must do so from the outset and I have not heard you comment on the consequences of this terrible shock, this earthquake in Afghanistan, on the world, on security and on our democracies. We have experienced a double humiliation in Afghanistan: the humiliation of defeat, the humiliation of this chaos, of this terror, of this obscurantism that returns. But we have also suffered the humiliation of a Europe that has been in the wake of the United States, that has no foreign policy, that has no defence policy or a policy of any kind towards Afghanistan, and that is waiting to know from the Americans whether to stay, leave, in what way and when. This double humiliation is an important course in view of the future, which must be seen as a post-American era of international relations, where new powers, often aggressive, which refuse multilateralism, the values of the UN Charter, are becoming increasingly important and are busy advancing their pawns. In this area, we must have an analysis, a doctrine, a course that is clear. I have not heard you, Prime Minister. I would like to hear from you on this fact and analysis. It is above all on this point that I am waiting for you, because that is also what is at stake tomorrow with regard to our own security and the future of Europe. The Americans had their agenda. They considered that the terrorist threat was greater if they remained than if they left. But we had our own agenda and the consequences of this Afghan withdrawal are likely to be more important to us than to the United States. However, we have been collectively failing in this respect and Belgium too. I recall that we are a founding member of NATO, the EU and the United Nations. As such, we have a particular responsibility to try to uphold these values. On the other hand, I wanted to highlight the fact that we leave people behind. Among the different categories that were cited, how many Belgians want to stay? How will we respond to the call of the European Commission by Ursula von der Leyen on relocations? No figures were put forward by Belgium. I expect that we have a share of responsibility and that we also have criteria as to who we are going to protect by priority. I receive calls from Belgians and non-Belges (Afghans). Many of them complain about not receiving a response from our services, and that is why I would like to know what the current practical procedure these people must follow, what the focus is and how these people can be helped. How can we respond to their distress calls and how can we identify those at greatest risk? Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have said that the Taliban will be judged on their actions. What exactly does that mean? What are the red lines and the consequences of exceeding them? Today, we must go beyond statements: if the red lines are out of date in terms of human rights (violence, terrorism), we must be able to ensure that we have a reaction. I did not hear what reaction this was from the European Union. I recall that the Taliban are an organization on the list of terrorist organizations of the European Union and that, according to a report by the United Nations experts to the Security Council, this organization remains and is in close contact with Al-Qaeda as well as with the Islamic State in Afghanistan. If we ever had to have political reports other than those you mentioned, Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs – and I understand you on that ground – this would be a reversal. We have never had official relations with a terrorist organization and certainly no political recognition. This would be a very important political changeover for the future, which would be catastrophic. I'd like to talk about those returns again. I welcome what has been done and, in particular, this discreet operation which has exfiled a whole series of people. How will we ensure that vulnerable people can be removed from Afghanistan and that those who attempt to reach the Pakistani border can be helped when addressing our consular services and our local embassy? [[I heard the screenings that were made.]] Are there any people who have been excluded as a result of these screenings and who have not been able to reach our soil? I will conclude by saying that we do need Europe. I have heard you, Prime Minister, on European consular services. That seems important to me. Again, I have not heard anyone on a European defence. We have talked about capacity building, but I would like these words – European defence – to be spoken in a strong, ambitious way and that this is indeed part of your agenda, in the service of a doctrine, a foreign policy and a capacity for us to define what our security challenges are and how to ensure that they are implemented. I think there is this American call for an alliance of democracies. I regret that it is once again the Americans who take the initiative. In the future, in relation to this brutal world that is emerging not only in Afghanistan and in certain Islamist countries such as Iran, but also in China and Russia with other authoritarian agendas, I think we have an interest in having our own agenda and defending what we have written, with our grandparents, in the Charter of the United Nations on freedom, security and equality between women and men. We must not give up on this. It would be futile, absurd and inefficient to simply build borders – I do not plead for open borders and this debate has already taken place largely – and to believe that insecurity will be contained and that migration will be prevented. It is our responsibility to continue to have and develop an effective foreign policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u29	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your interventions on the disaster of the return of an obscurantist and medieval regime to Afghanistan. As far as security and intelligence are concerned, we must be clear. We were surprised because we learned too much to rely on allied intelligence services, particularly the United States. We were finally subjected to the tempo printed by the rapid withdrawal of the United States. Europeans must learn major lessons about the organisation of their defence and intelligence services. They must take over more than ever before. With regard to evacuations, you described the current evacuations. I also want to thank all the military, civil servants and diplomats who have made this possible. Obviously, there are still people who still need us: Belgians – I would also like to know how many they are – and people who have helped our country. The fear of an attack was fully justified since during our meeting, an explosion took place near Kabul airport. I too am thinking of the victims, who unfortunately already seem numerous. So the question is more important than ever: what means are available to those who still want to return? How will we get out of this country, even those who fall within the four categories that you have defined? I come to the recognition of this regime. I believe that the international community, and in particular Europe, must carry a message without any ambivalence. Now, ambiance, I am sorry to have to say it, it was in the words of your majority. I hear we should give the Taliban a chance or wait and see. Other, fortunately stronger voices have also been expressed within the government. And because of this: no, the Taliban are not given a chance, because they leave none to their people. No, it is not too early to define an attitude to this regime, unless it has learned nothing from recent history. You tell us, minister, that the Taliban will have to be judged on their actions and not on their words. Of course, but I suppose and hope that no one here is naive, and that no one thinks that the Taliban have changed and that they would have become kindly inclusive, as they themselves claim with some irony, or participative. Who can imagine here for a moment that as soon as the Americans have abandoned Kabul airport, a final lead cap will not fall on the men and especially on the women who live in that country? Who believes that a sharia-based policy can exist that is consistent with women's acquired rights? I therefore urge our country not to give in to this regime and not to offer an ounce of recognition to this Taliban government. If necessary, let us disassociate ourselves from the international community if it gives way to the temptation to prefer pragmatism to the rights of men, especially women and girls. On the subject of refugees, finally, be vigilant, Mr Secretary of State, certainly, should not prevent us from being generous and up to the humanitarian situation. It seems surreal to recall that a few weeks ago, your government refused to suspend forced returns to Afghanistan. Today, we have turned into another world. Europe must be on the rendezvous. She can't give up on women and children who want to flee. It is not a question of migration policy but a question of humanity. Europeans cannot miss out on humanitarian crises every time. I understand the definition of the four categories of people that have been defined. We can only agree with the government's willingness to help them. But I wish the wire wasn't cut for the others. You may well not be Belgian, have not worked for an NGO, have not worked for Belgium or its allies, have no residence permit, and nevertheless have very good reasons to fear the Taliban and not want to stay in Afghanistan, especially in view of the rapid progress of the Taliban. Can we just open our doors to your four categories of people? My answer is no. On the other hand, can anyone wishing to flee the Taliban be welcomed by themselves? My answer is not, too. But between the two there is a margin. This margin is called the European asylum policy. As far as I am concerned, I would like Belgium to play a pioneering role in this area. I would like Belgium to shake up the European Union, to bring out the European Asylum Agency in the process of being set up for the occasion. In my opinion, the AMIF funds, Mr. Mahdi, are not enough. Let us not leave without an appropriate response a regime that locks women in tissue prisons, has in the past dispensed with corporal punishment and maintains a theocratic ideology that is clearly in contradiction with the most basic human rights. I hear the real humanitarian efforts, but that is not enough. There is a need for a coordinated European plan with a fair distribution among European countries of some of the asylum seekers, who will arrive in the countries neighbouring Afghanistan. We can and must do better. We cannot remain on the wrong side of history during every humanitarian crisis. Peter Buysrogge, President: I will conclude this round of speeches. I would like to give the floor to the Prime Minister for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u30	I'll take care of some of the reply and my colleagues will take care of the rest. As I indicated to the chairman, I have to leave the committee around 5:45 p.m. You have probably also seen the reports that there would have been an attack near Kabul airport. If this is confirmed and a lot of information points to it, then it indicates that the information on which we based ourselves to end our activities on the ground yesterday was unfortunately correct. Someone asked what "level of certainty" we had about that. The answer is, of course, none. Intelligence says there are indications that there could be an attack. This is a typical risk assessment that one does, where the probability is never 100 %, but never 0 %. However, I think yesterday's decision was right to remove our people from the airport and to make it clear to the Belgians and others who are on the Belgian lists that they should not submit to the airport. It is particularly unfortunate to hear that several deaths have probably occurred. In the meantime, in its analysis, the OCAD has identified Kabul airport and its surroundings as a place of the highest level of threat. I now turn to a number of specific questions. As regards Category 4, Secretary of State Mahdi has already indicated which criteria people had to meet in order to fall into a particular category. I believe that we have always communicated very transparently on this issue. I have also made it clear that category 4 concerns people who are not Belgian nationals or who are part of the 'nuclear family', i.e. the partner or children. Whether they are not in Category 2, namely they have worked with us or they are in danger because of their activities, human rights activities or others? Category 4 are people who have a certain title which allows them to be in our country. I have already said in the introduction that this category was treated as non-priority, and I would certainly like to repeat that. I want to make it clear that not everyone in Category 4 is a refugee. Some of them will have refugee status, but that is not the case for everyone. Secretary of State Mahdi and his administration must judge that. The position of the government has always been clear about the EU-Turkey deal. First of all, that deal needs to be evaluated. Then, on the basis of that evaluation, I believe there can be an extension. I do not see how we can argue today for an extension of the scope of the EU-Turkey deal. Mr Francken, you are asking whether people will have to be sent back to Afghanistan. I think that everyone understands very well, given the current circumstances, that de facto no people can be sent back today. That doesn't mean a return stop is set. However, it is particularly difficult to foresee how conditions will evolve in the coming weeks. Mr De Vriendt, I will have the Foreign Minister answer your questions about the interactions with the United States. What are the criteria to meet certain categories? We have always communicated about this transparently. Category 1 is people who are Belgian nationals or their families in the strict sense, i.e. their partner or children. It is very clear that aunts and uncles, as some have described, do not comply. That control has taken place at Kabul airport and has sometimes led to very difficult decisions, since it was necessary to decide which people could leave with our flight and which people did not meet the conditions. Statistics were asked for, but I think it will be very difficult to have them, as those decisions were made under high pressure. As has already been said, it had half an hour to do the triage of the people on the spot, to check whether or not they meet the conditions. We will ask for additional statistics on this, but I am not sure that they will be available. I shall return to the question of who is entitled to repatriation. As I said in my introduction, these are people who are in a country with negative travel advice. Strictly speaking, there is no consular obligation to support them, but I think it is quite clear that we must help the people of Belgian nationality and their families from a human and moral perspective. It is clear, for example, that for people in category 4 there is in fact no such consular obligation. That is why they have a lower priority. There was also a question about the people who are still there. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will provide more information on the estimated number. As in all lists, numbers may vary. It is clear that it is not because the repatriations carried out by our C-130s have stopped that we will no longer continue to help people. How are we going to do this? This will depend on the development of the situation. Perhaps travel between Afghanistan and some neighbouring countries in which we have an embassy will be possible. For the moment, it is very difficult to envisage it. Mr Dallemagne, you say that the political record has not been drawn. I don't quite agree. In a broader context, the purpose of this kind of intervention has not always been clear. After twenty years, is the goal still the same? If we wanted to do nation building, with such a result, we have to ask ourselves if this kind of intervention makes sense. It is difficult to impose certain things in some countries if there is no local will. Local will is something that is being built, but it does not mean that action must not be taken to ensure that human rights are respected, that women and girls have the same rights. If we wanted to create a local goodwill and a local ownership, it is shown here that there are a lot of lessons to learn about it. I fear that the impact of this departure from Afghanistan will affect for a long time the way in which we consider the need to intervene, pressure or interact with countries in which human rights are not respected. I will let my three colleagues answer the more specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u31	It was asked whether the Department of Foreign Affairs had advocated a longer presence on the ground. Indeed, we have argued in favour of this. I raised this at European level, because I thought it was important to get everyone on the same wavelength. We thought that the situation was so complicated that it would take a lot of time to get everyone back here. We also made this very clear at the NATO meeting. I used the words all-in-all-out, together. I have added that this was not just a military issue, but also a civil one. There was also a G7 summit and I have heard that the question was put to the Americans there too. However, the Taliban did not intend to agree to that extra time. The security situation has deteriorated day after day, hour after hour. The situation around the airport is very dangerous. This has always been the case. The risk of an attack was present and this risk increased over time. We are seeing the consequences of this today. I am convinced that many people find this horrible. What about the number of people who remain? You have been reminded of the difficult circumstances of the creation of these famous lists. Who's there? Who's not here? How many Belgians, rightholders and other categories of people are there? I would remind you that it is quite special to talk about "categories" when it comes to humans behind them. But this is part of the work that has had to be done. That night, when we had to find out that we had left, we sent a message in different ways to a series of people we were not sure they had left Kabul. This does not mean that we were certain that they were in Kabul, but we did not have the certainty that they were no longer there. We therefore opted for prudence and sent this message in a broad way by telling them that it was time for them to report, again, their presence with the embassy, to let them know who they are, how many they are by giving the names, first names, dates of birth, identity numbers of the persons concerned and their exact location so that we could consider the future. What's the future? No one knows. A few days ago, we didn't know we should leave. Last night, a few hours ago, we didn't know that this terrible attack would take place today, and we can't predict what will happen tomorrow. On the other hand, we can predict what we have wanted to do and what we continue to want to do, that is to say, to bring back those for whom we have responsibility. That's very clear! How will we proceed? Obviously, everything will depend on the evolution of the situation on the spot, the number of people involved, what can be done, how to organize things and with whom. All this will obviously take some time, knowing that this time will be extended in the light of the deterioration of the security situation, which is deteriorating, moreover, from hour to hour and perhaps from minute to minute. The will is there. We'll keep in touch. We try to gather as much information as possible to keep in close contact with those we want to bring back. We will see what we can do, starting from the situation on the ground. A question was also asked about the person allegedly injured by an American soldier. We have contacted the Americans about this, asking for an investigation, which will also be carried out on our side. Understand that as I speak to you, it is far too early to draw conclusions! The nations on the ground are trying to contain the security situation and see how they can get out of this difficult situation in the most secure way for everyone. There was also a question about the future relationship with the Taliban. Do we have a stick behind the door? There are sticks behind the door. They are usually in the hands of different institutions. Afghanistan needs our help to develop and rebuild. Humanitarian aid is also very important there. We will have to find a proper balance between the stick behind the door to influence this regime in the right direction.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is always a difficult balancing exercise. The members of the Foreign Affairs Committee know that better than the others, because we talk about this every time we meet. There is the will and demand from Belgium at the European level to try to influence the formation of the government there, if it is formed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u32	As far as Defence is concerned, I had already said many things in my speech. I will repeat some things because there have been questions about it. I first address the number of people who have worked for Defence (the collaborators). At the time, I replied that we had identified some 30 people, based on the criteria established by Kern. There was contact with these people. Not everyone responded, but those who responded, we helped. At the moment 15 employees were repatriated with their families, for a total of 79 people. With regard to the European pillar, since my assumption of office, this has been the subject of our first discussions on the policy note. Of course, I am totally in favour of strengthening the European pillar within NATO, of increasing the autonomy of European countries. While we have sometimes had rather heated debates, there has never been a question of opposing each other. It is important to strengthen our capabilities and the command post. All the necessary debates are taking place on the strategic compass within the European Union, but more will have to be demanded. Claim this exit strategy too! That is what we have been doing in Afghanistan for some time now. There will certainly be lessons to be learned. We will have the opportunity, within our Operations Monitoring Committee, to go into more detail on the operations that have taken place. We will have in the Defence and Operations Committee the opportunity to have in mind what has happened in Afghanistan for the theatres of operations, where we are still today and where we will have to intervene tomorrow. In the near future, I will submit to the committee a list of operations for 2022. The discussions will obviously take into account the lessons to be learned from the current situation for our ambitions in 2022. The Operations Monitoring Committee met very regularly to examine, as at present, what was at work in the countries in which we are involved. You will have all the precise information about what's going on, since it's going in camera and so, we can really talk safely. I see no problem in having it meet more when it is necessary. That's what I had to say about the Defence component!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u33	Thank you for the many speeches and questions. As regards questions relating to family reunification, the Foreigner's Act provides that a request for family reunification is, in principle, made from the country of origin. Article 12a of the Aliens Act provides that in exceptional circumstances this application may also be submitted from Belgium. For me, it is obvious that these are exceptional circumstances, and I hope that no one doubts them, and that the parties concerned can therefore also submit their applications in Belgium. I'd like to put the question back to you for a piece. Rules are important and must be followed in virtually all circumstances. In times of extraordinary circumstances, the Foreigner's Law itself provides some space. When it comes to a visa application submitted by an interpreter, and the Foreign Office needs a while to answer that, while the flight is leaving now, do you expect me to send an email to the person and say: you will have to wait, because the Foreign Office is working on your file, please come back within a few days? Do you expect me to say to the interpreter, who is waiting with wife and children at the airport: may I ask your wife and children to stand aside for a moment, because they are not going? You may have worked hard for our soldiers, put your neck out under a certain regime for years, but I am going to ask you to follow the procedures and ask your wife and children to sit down, perhaps in a few days' time on the basis of the procedures, or not? We did what we had to do there. We have brought interpreters here and people who have fought for women and human rights, along with their families. I wasn't gonna leave women and children, I wasn't gonna do that. I read the question on social media: where are the women? They're here. At the moment, I can even tell you that 50% of those in Peutie are women. When it comes to categories 1, 2, 3 and 4, with 4 then to refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, with certain residence permits, they are also the last to be called up. It seemed only natural to me that the Belgians were initially convoked with their families, then the interpreters and the fixers of Defence and then also the people who fought for human rights and women's rights. Of course, the people who have brought a residence permit here are also the people who have been called upon to do so. Do they have the right to go to Afghanistan? Some indeed have that right. People with subsidiary protection have the right to move. In addition, it is up to the CGVS to judge for certain refugees whether there are reasons to believe that they had been allowed to travel to their country of origin very exceptionally. That is why I have indicated that these names are passed on to the CGVS, so that it can be investigated. That needs to be investigated, and I cannot decide for myself that someone, unlike thousands of other refugees, has not complied with the rules and therefore decide not to take them. That needs to be investigated. When do you want me to investigate? Do I have to examine it on the scene first while the plane is ready to leave? No, we're not. With regard to relations with third countries and the Turkey deal, it is important to understand the need to strengthen countries and ensure that third countries become safe third countries. The more safe third countries there are in the world, the better. I don't think anyone in this room is against a safe third country. That is why there has been huge investment in Turkey, in particular to ensure that the level of care they provide is such that people there can be regarded as people who are in a safe third country. There are also elements in the Turkey deal that need to be taken into account. For example, the one-for-one principle. I do not know to what extent there are people in the Chamber who are asking for it. However, the philosophy is that countries in the region need to be strengthened and invested. I have also heard everyone here in the Chamber say that we must invest in the countries in the region and even in the wider region. We need to ensure that there are opportunities for people to have quality care, that children can go to school, that parents can work. After all, Mr Segers has rightly pointed it out: we are actually talking wrongly about 2015 when we need to talk about 2011. That is true, if we do not ensure that the reception is of a certain quality, we will get what we got in 2015. We must therefore ensure that there is sufficient investment in that region so that there are opportunities. As far as return is concerned, the rules are clear. I have heard the members of PTB say a lot of things in that regard. Perhaps the members of PTB know why the Netherlands had to introduce a moratorium. In the Netherlands, an asylum application must be answered within a certain time limit. If this does not happen, one does not comply with one's own legal provisions. In the Netherlands, the only way to overcome this is to establish a moratorium. That's a first thing. Secondly, in the Netherlands, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration has to wait for a report from the administration of a foreign office that makes a country evaluation every few months. The Netherlands should therefore have waited months for a new evaluation of that foreign office. In Belgium this does not happen in this way, because in Belgium, every dossier is examined individually by the Foreign Office, with a check of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which means that we never send people back to places where it is dangerous. Belgium, for example, has not set up a moratorium on sending people back to Libya, but we are also not sending people back to Libya. So there is a difference between facts on the one hand and good communication on the other. I could have put in place a moratorium perfectly, but that hadn't changed much about reality, about things. The reality must be explained as it is. The Department of Foreign Affairs always evaluates on an individual basis. When it is judged that there are opportunities to return someone who is not entitled to international protection, that will happen, but only on that basis. Mr. Moutquin, I understand your questions. I would like to return to one aspect in general. We talk very often about Canada and I'm sometimes jealous of it. I'd like to be on the other side of the ocean and have the luxury of saying, "I'm bringing 20,000 refugees to Canada." For me, as far as ambition is concerned, they are not at the level of Belgium. Canada has four times as many people as Belgium and Belgium receive 25,000 asylum seekers each year. Canada has the luxury, with the ocean, of being able to afford virtually no asylum claims and to select 20,000 refugees. When we talk about Canada, I'm jealous of its geography but not the politics it develops. I follow you when you say that there is a need for an international resettlement policy. This must be integrated into a European plan in which we can ensure that people who have a real need for protection are helped. It is the great challenge of trying to distinguish between those who have a real need for protection and those who do not. As far as humanitarian visas are concerned, the files that are pending will be dealt with. Secondly, the situation on the ground will have to be assessed before it can be expressed. With regard to the host network, the covid has not made things easier and there has been an increase in demand in recent weeks. We have to keep an eye on this. That is why the government is in favour of having some stability in the network, with buffer places. We must avoid having to close places and then have to reopen them. This does not help anyone, especially the local level. Mr Rigot, you have asked questions about European policy. We discuss it every week in committee and we need to know what kind of Europe we want. How do we better manage migration? We all know that the majority of people who apply for asylum do not receive international protection and therefore receive a refusal. It is frustrating for everyone to know that someone is returning to Europe, going through four, five or six countries to get a negative answer in the end. How can we avoid this? We will avoid this if we can strengthen our external borders not to block entry to everyone, but to ensure that everyone can be screened to find out who really needs protection. At a time when this screening will be carried out at the border, I think we can have more solidarity on the part of all the Member States. Flemish Interest asked if there was a mass migration coming. This also partly builds on what Mr Segers said: in 2011 the situation in Syria was badly managed. This led to the migration crisis that we have experienced in 2015. How do we prevent large groups of people from seeking protection elsewhere? This is done by investing in the region and by ensuring that the many people who enter Europe today and in fact do not need protection can be screened at the borders. The next European Council will take place on 31 August, in which I will also take part. Two months ago, I told my colleagues in the Council that everyone better call off their holiday plans, because in the summer months we would face enough challenges. I don't know what my colleagues have done this summer, but at least I had to break off my holiday early. There's no time to stand still. We have to move forward. Some of you have already said that the first step has been taken around EASO, but much more will have to be done more quickly if we are to avoid human dramas. Flemish Interest also asked a question about the floods, which I do not think was addressed to me. However, I think it is important to mention that, at the time of the floods, we cleared places in the Spa asylum centre for people who had lost their homes because of the natural disaster. The interpreters who worked with the Defense Department are now being picked up in the Defence Buildings, not in the asylum centre. In fact, places have been opened up in the asylum centre for people whose house was completely underwater. That's what we care about. Just as much as someone fleeing war, someone fleeing a natural disaster needs protection and shelter. The questions concerning the screenings of Mr Ducrame, which I think is no longer present, have already received an answer: there is a screening which takes place at several stages. I would like to clarify something to everyone about screening. Does anyone have any idea how many people enter Belgium through airports every year? Anyone? 26 million! Of these 26 million, do you know how many people have been screened by ADIV/SGRS, OCAM, State Security, police controls or controls on Asylum and Migration? The answer is simple: zero! This kind of screening is important and we do it. It is much more severe than in other countries. At first, we were getting hit on our fingers because it wasn't going fast enough. However, it is necessary to do so. We must have a screening. That is necessary and we will continue to do so until the end. Mr Demon asked a question about reception within the European Union. In this respect, I can only say that a number of European Union countries already provide a great deal of reception in the region. Belgium is part of that. However, the problem is twofold. There are those who would be better informed at the European external borders that they do not need protection, which makes little sense to go further. In addition, there are a number of countries that do want the will of Europe, but not directly the burden of receiving refugees. I believe that all Member States should take responsibility for this. PTB colleagues are no longer present, that's a shame. They were talking about the hypocrisy of the West. I wanted to make some jokes about China, but it's no longer possible. I think the PTB colleagues still have a friend in the United States. He lives in Silicon Valley and his name is Mark Zuckerberg. Ah, there you are, Mr. Boukili. Since you were talking about the hypocrisy of the West, I wanted to know how this is going in China and at the same time, if in the United States, your friend Mark Zuckerberg is doing well. At the same time, as Mr. Demon pointed out, what letter was sent to the President of Afghanistan at the time, long ago, when he had said that forced returns were over for him, that he was no longer working there? Together with other countries, this letter was answered by saying that there is an international responsibility to take back its citizens. At the same time, the two-page letter pointed out the need to strengthen regional support and investment, which the European Union must push at international level. All this was part of the letter. The letter must be understood in its context. Indeed, when a president of a country specifies that forced returns are automatically refused for everyone, I do not agree. There is an international responsibility for everyone. For Belgium, it is also a matter of respecting international law and European law and not returning anyone to a region where there is a danger. With regard to Afghans in closed centres, those that cannot be expelled, a closed centre has, of course, the sole purpose of bringing about a return. If that is not possible, that is not the case. On the other hand, for those who are in Dublin proceedings and could therefore be returned to another European country, this is not the case. Mr Vandenput also asked me about the plea on 31 August. I will build on the plea I made to my colleagues two months ago. I said at the time that there was no time for long chatting and little to do. The time is now. We must now make progress to avoid dealing with the problems of the past. A number of countries are already taking initiatives themselves, but we need to strengthen our external borders and we need to take account of international and European law in the meantime. We need to be able to control who enters through border posts and provide protection to those who really need it. I'll repeat that plea. I will urge colleagues again until we get there. After all, it's the only way to get there. It is also the only way to prevent us from ending up in another world. A world where today we are mainly pointing to a number of Eastern European countries, but where we may not be as far off as we are unable to ensure a controlled and organised flow of migration. Mr Segers, you have asked several questions about humanitarian visas. There is an absolute need for support for neighbouring countries. I believe that, together with my colleague, Mr Kitir, I should look at how we can support countries in the region and, above all, the international organisations active there. In this way we can avoid what we experienced in 2011. You are absolutely right about this. I urge my European colleagues to do so. I will probably find a partner in Vooruit in the Chamber and in the government to provide sufficient resources for organisations that make a difference on the ground. Mr De Smet, you told me you had to be vigilant, but generous at the same time. Mr. De Smet's not here either. That's right, but I'd like to say we're both. Vigilants, we are in the procedures used. Generous, we have been for a long time. The problem is that sometimes we are generous towards people to whom, in the end, we give a poisoned gift: being in a procedure that lasts, that drags for a long time, so that the final answer is negative. This must be taken into account. The last element is the distribution. I will, but I have already said that Belgium takes responsibility for other European countries, which unfortunately do not take them. This is a real challenge and we will try to bring it to fruition. The next step is August 31. We will continue to work on this migration pact, which is so important to have another migration model that is better and avoid problems in the future, but above all human tragedies, as we have seen before. Peter Buysrogge, President: Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be making a full round of speeches to all the groups, but if there are any Members who still wish to speak, I will certainly allow that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u34	There have been very long answers, but not so many figures. So I will have to put in a lot of written questions in order to get an idea of that. It has been asked from different groups how many have collided with this screening and have therefore received negative advice and have not travelled or been supervised here. There was no answer to that. The screening is very thorough, so I assume that people have run into the light or been stopped. If that is not the case, then that seems strange to me, on such a large number. As far as category 4 is concerned, you say that this is not a priority. How many recognised refugees have come to our country by plane? You say that it is up to the CVGS to do the withdrawal if necessary. For example, if you want to travel for a wedding party or a funeral, you can, but you have to report it to the CGVS in advance. How many did that happen? If they have done so, then I can understand it, because then they are safe. Can that be explained? Give me some figures on that, because we're being kept in the dark here. The nuclear family is category 1. If I have understood correctly, I apologize if not, but I have listened very carefully to your answers, brothers and sisters and possibly aunts, uncles, grandmothers and others fall under category 4. Yes or no? How many of those second-grade families, which are not part of the nuclear family, have been evacuated? I'd like to get the numbers. I did not receive an answer to my question on resettlement either. I asked the Prime Minister if there would be a humanitarian air bridge from Islamabad or a resettlement. It's another fight in the European Union. You say that 31 August is important and that we will try to reach an agreement on the New Pact on Migration and Asylum. I wish you every success in the current climate. That will be very difficult and I don't believe in it either. The content of this can never be achieved at the external border. That's doomed to fail. We've been doing that in hotspots for years. After 18 months, a country is responsible, because everyone travels to the West. I did not receive an answer from the Prime Minister on whether Belgium will organise another resettlement operation, a humanitarian air bridge and, if so, how many people. Mr De Vriendt has insisted on this and all the left-wing parties are in favour of it. I assume that this will then become the government's position, as is usually the case in such a government. I didn't get an answer to that question. Now 1,400 have come here on the plane, but I think a lot of people are wondering how many more are coming. I'd like to know. You'll find a lot more. Please explain how much. What's the government's point of view? There is discussion within Europe. Is that also true in the government? So what's the point of view? Fourthly, the EU-Turkey deal. Mr De Vriendt has been right: there will be no extension of the Turkey deal with Afghanistan. There's gonna be an evaluation first. Mr Mahdi, I am sorry, but if you say that - I read that in De Standaard, I read that on all the websites, you have actively advocated this, then you played cavalier seul. Just as with your letter on the return that certainly had to be preserved regarding Afghanistan, you played cavalier seul. You won't get Green's support in your government. Neither is it here, and you're losing the plea. In Afghanistan you were overtaken by the facts, particularly painful, and here you were flogged back by the Prime Minister, I heard that very well. Then you say you will release the Afghans. Outside Dublin, you say that Afghans are being released from the closed centres, I understand, because there is no return option. I take note of this. This was the great demand of Refugee Work Flanders, where people will be very satisfied. I do not know if everyone is satisfied, especially in Zeebrugge where there are so many transit migrants with Afghans too, which now nothing happens to them. The smuggling of human beings now has complete freedom for her operations. A record number of boats is picked up in the Channel, towards Great Britain. It's only gonna get worse, because we're not gonna be able to do anything with the Afghans. Even in the case of nuisance, we can no longer lock them up, because it is very rare that there is a Dublin hit. Then I'll come to the Belgians. You didn't mention my name, but as far as family reunification for an interpreter and an interpreter is concerned, you say that you will not leave the family there, that women and children may come with the people who have helped the Defense for years. I agree with that. Give them a humanitarian visa. They can indeed apply for asylum per head, even the children. My question concerns the Belgians who were there, despite the negative travel advice for five years, despite the urgent call by Mrs Wilmès and her services to return from 7 August. Did the family take them? That would be unlikely! They're going there, aren't there, aren't coming back, are being evacuated in a very expensive evacuation operation where we risk military lives. If they bring their family members without a visa, what about all Afghans who didn't return to Afghanistan and who are trying to achieve family reunification without success? How cynical can it actually be! Those people win from all sides. They also have their families with them, without having to follow the normal procedure. You won't get them back if it's a no. That's what this is about. How many men and women who didn't have visas have come with those Belgians? I'd like to know. The written questions will certainly be forthcoming. Peter Buysrogge, President: Mr Francken, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u35	Finally, I heard Mr Demon say that the asylum quotas and the distribution across Europe were established in order to transcend the divisions within the European Union. I fell off my chair, because the compulsory asylum quota is just the source of all division, as the Visegrad Group does not agree. So there is still naivety, especially in the current majority. After everything we have been through, there can never be a structural solution, and I very much regret that. We will certainly be able to continue the debate in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u36	On behalf of our group, I would like to reply briefly, first of all by thanking the ministers for their answers. It was not an easy task, because we have all seen the chaos around the airport, but nevertheless Belgium has managed to evacuate compatriots and Afghans. Any person we can get to safety like that counts. The Prime Minister said that the evacuation was a moral mission for our country, after our involvement in Afghanistan. Immediately after this, however, the question arises: what about the many Afghans on the ground who have to fear reprisals of the Taliban regime? Our thoughts are with them, with human rights activists, journalists, everyone who stands up for women's rights, members of the LGBTQ community, in short, people for whom the future in Afghanistan is very uncertain and potentially very unsafe. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for her answers and for the help Belgium will continue to give to the Afghan people, even though it is a difficult balance, as she has said. Mr Secretary of State, I had also put some specific questions on asylum and migration, because we would of course like to know what commitments Belgium is making to help the refugees. You yourself referred to the number of Afghan refugees already present in Pakistan and Iran. It is clear that there is a need for resettlement, for a structural resettlement policy. Those are not words from me or my group, but from Ursula von der Leyen. I have already heard the members of the government say that Belgium will do its fair share. I also had questions about the reception capacity. Fedasil must be ready to take on the people who want to apply for asylum. I have heard the government say that buffer seats will also be provided, as provided for in the coalition agreement. This is important because we do not want a new crisis of reception, as we have seen in the past. These buffer spaces can be used flexibly. In this way, we avoid a crisis of reception, as this undermines the support for a humane asylum policy. Mr Secretary of State, I also had a question about the operation of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. The confidence in the decisions taken by the CGVS has been seriously compromised. We have seen that even when the Taliban was already in Kabul, the Commissariat still made decisions that people had to return, while it was clear that a decision stop was absolutely at the time. This deserves a more in-depth debate, including on the role and functioning of the CGIS. Since you yourself often refer to the independence of their decisions to base your own policies on them, it is important that we can rely on the correctness of those decisions of the administration. Finally, there has been a lot of talk about humanitarian visas. Will you make use of it and how will it work in practice? What criteria will you apply for the issue of humanitarian visas to Afghans? Those were some of our group's questions and concerns. Mr Secretary of State, I have already felt a great deal of commitment to the needs that exist during your speech. We'd like to continue the discussion in committee, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u37	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the ministers who have answered the questions that have been asked. Having said that, I believe that we are at a time of transition, as our committees will meet again in the coming days, in the coming weeks. There will be follow-up committees. Commission meetings will also be requested for Haiti. Indeed, other problems arise today. We will, of course, learn from what has happened. But it is important that we can have exchanges before and after meetings at European and NATO level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we discussed in detail various aspects and consequences of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan and how it is possible that no one saw this situation coming. It was also about whether or not the evacuation flights start late, the failure of and possibly looking the other side of the intelligence services, and the reception of refugees and a possible wave of migration in the future. My colleague referred to it just now. As you know, we are in favour of humane care in our own region. Of course, it was also about civil rights in Afghanistan under the Taliban regime. I would like to dwell on that last aspect. There are lists of people who would be targeted by the Taliban's reprisals. A comedian was slit his throat. Activists must fear for their lives. It is indeed very worrying that law and order will henceforth be regulated according to Sharia. Minister Wilmès, you gave a comprehensive answer to the question of how the government will see its relationship with the Taliban regime in the future. You said that the federal government and the EU still have to determine their political relations. Those political relations will look at the actions of the Taliban. You also mentioned sticks behind the door in the hope of influencing this political process from the outset in the right direction. However, let us not be naive. We all know from the past and from what is happening today what the old and the new Taliban think about civil rights and women's rights. You know our position on these possible diplomatic ties. As far as we are concerned, these political relations no longer need to be determined. There can simply be no cooperation with such a regime. It is the responsibility of the federal government to judge in the future how it sees its relationship with a strict Islamic regime like that in Afghanistan. In our view, this cannot be regarded as a normal country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Demon, you say that we must prepare for a new flow of refugees and that we must do so by creating a basis for support in Europe for reception. However, that is not the way we should prepare for this new mass migration flow. We must do this by closing our external borders, the external borders of Europe and, if necessary, the external borders of Belgium and Flanders, for this massive illegal migration. Mr Ducarme says that he prefers to meet a few days later, and that is a euphemism with the committee when we have a government that does its job. Does Mr Ducarme then claim that the governments of countries that had the necessary democratic and parliamentary debate before and during these evacuations from Afghanistan did not do their job or did it badly? Or is he saying that we in Belgium are not really able to have a well-functioning government and a well-functioning Parliament at the same time? These are serious accusations by Mr Ducarme, who unfortunately is no longer here. Mr Liekens, you wonder how many women and girls are left behind in Afghanistan. There's quite a few of them. There are 39 million Afghans, approximately 20 million Afghan women. Are we going to bring them all to Belgium because they are no longer allowed to study in Afghanistan? And are we going to do the same for all the women in all the other strict Islamic countries? I think it will be quite crowded in Belgium and Flanders. Mr Mahdi, that one-for-one principle with Turkey is of course not applied unilaterally by Turkey. So it's a little bizarre for you to mention it. You're comparing the migratory flow that may start from Afghanistan, with that from Syria. You speak of all Syrians who have come here. Of course, this wave of migration from a few years ago did not mainly concern Syrians, including people from all over the world, from Eritrea to Vietnam. Everyone used the chaos to come here massively, especially then to Western Europe, especially to Belgium. So that equation is a little misplaced. I also wonder, of course, why there was no answer to the screening, how many of them collided with it. Just now I read a news report that a man was already locked up in France who was flown out of Kabul a few days ago. That man was investigated and placed under surveillance because of ties to the Taliban. He was forbidden to leave the city where he was. He did, and fortunately, the French security services were able to intercept him in time. The reality is that many of the Afghan migrants who come to our country, either through an evacuation flight or through human smugglers, have no idea who they are and with what intentions they are coming to our country. Without saying that all Afghans in our country are causing problems, we have to admit that it is not rare for Afghans to be involved in violence, inside and outside the asylum centres. It is a good thing that we are concerned about the safety and living conditions of the Afghan people, 7,000 kilometres from here, but can we please be concerned about the safety and living conditions of our own people in Flanders and Wallonia, who are seriously affected by mass migration, including from Afghanistan? Can we think of the inhabitants of the flood-stricken municipalities, who were totally abandoned by the government, but who now have to accept Afghan refugees? Can we also think of the 73-year-old Jos from Peer, who was brutally murdered during a walk without cause? Can we also think about the rape of a minor girl in Houthalen-Helchteren, or the elderly dementia woman who was raped in a residential care center in Genk, or the hairdresser from Hasselt who was murdered, or the girl from Diepenbeek who was dragged off her bike and brutally raped? All these horrible criminal acts were committed by Afghans, often asylum seekers, and I could go on for hours. Does that mean that all Afghan migrants are bad people? Absolutely not. What it does mean is that there is something fundamentally wrong with the migration policy of the past few decades, when we find that there are so many people with bad intentions in that migratory flow. We must not stigmatise people, but we must finally face reality. Mass migration is disrupting our society. It's making our country unsafe. It's burdening our security services and our judicial system. It makes the level in our schools drop and our cities decay. To bring Belgians and interpreters here, yes, but to admit another tens of thousands of illegal migrants, with the excuse that the Taliban have taken over power in Afghanistan, we say 'no'. Our country is full.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u40	Mr President, I would like once again to thank the Ministers, the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State, for having answered once again the questions that we were asking ourselves. I obviously agree with the analysis that we will still have to take stock of what remains to be done in the future, certainly in the Military Operations Monitoring Committee. We will also have to have a debate in the Committee on External Relations on the follow-up reserved, and I can only hope that this consultation will take place in a coordinated manner at European Union level and with our partners across the Atlantic. It is important, in this type of case, to be able to speak with one voice. I would like to make a brief remark to the Secretary of State, who has vigorously defended his position on the dossier relating to the reception at Spa. I just wanted, Mr Secretary of State, not to attack you, but to highlight the need – and here I relay a real concern – for better coordination when situations require urgent decision-making. Peter Buysrogge, president: I have an intervention from Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-08-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic563x.u41	Mr President, thank you. I heard Mr. Secretary of State's answer. He mentioned Mr Zuckerberg, China, I don't see the report when it comes to hypocrisy. I'll tell you, Secretary of State, what's hypocritical in this story. Today, we had a debate and no one in this House expressed the fact that the war in Afghanistan was a good or a bad idea. We are debating how this ends, but it was doomed to fail from the start. Like all the wars that have been waged by the United States and the West. Look at Libya, Iraq, Syria! It was doomed to failure from the start. There is no question of this fact. We're going to bomb people and we're not going back to questioning each other. That's hypocritical. It's like saying, here's the deal, now we're moving on. What is also hypocritical is when we talk about the refugee crisis and the crisis of reception, we talk about it as if we were the good Samaritans trying to find solutions. But we are the heart of the problem! If there are Libyan, Syrian and Afghan refugees today, it is because their countries were bombed there. We are talking about a policy of human acceptance! Is it human to bomb, to wage war against peoples? That's not human and that's hypocritical. That's what I mean by hypocrisy, Secretary of State. When you come with elements that have nothing to do with the subject, I wonder if there are any substantive arguments to answer the points I have just made. And now I have the impression that we are trying to avoid this debate. That's the big problem. Today, the problem and the main threat to stability and peace in the world is American interventionism, which is 100 per cent supported by European countries and Belgium and the NATO alliance. And you don't have an answer to that. And that's what I call "hypocrity." Peter Buysrogge, Chairman: We have come to the end of this committee. I would like to thank the members of the government for their input and thank colleagues for the interesting debate. There is no doubt that the debate will continue in the various committees. We may organise another joint committee in the month of September.
